ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 20th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Alenka Jeraj from 14th to 17th hours, Janko Weber, Silven Majhenič and Victory Jelinčič Nobleni. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and the Ministers to the 1st item of the agenda, the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic, the representative of the Council of Justice and the candidates for Members to the 41st item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 20th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting of 10. 9. 2010 We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any motions to withdraw the item from the agenda. The SDS delegation shall be held on 17. 9. 2010 proposed that the agenda of the 20th meeting of the Assembly be extended by means of a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President and members and alternate members of the Investigative Commission of the National Assembly to establish and assess the actual situation with regard to the establishment of issuers, the issuance and financing of free weeks of the Slovenian Week and Express. In this regard, I inform you that on the agenda of the 20th meeting of the Assembly, the 41st item of the Mandate-Electorial Affairs to be dealt with by the Assembly today is already on item 20. 9th, Wednesday, 22. 9th and Tuesday, 28. 9. 2010 The matters relating to this item of the agenda shall not be included in the meeting of the assembly by extension, but shall be subject to the agreement of the groups of Members that the National Assembly shall deal with all those Terms of Reference which have been submitted to it until the beginning of each consideration of the item. If the mandate-holder committee prepares an appropriate proposal for a decision to be considered at the meeting of the National Assembly, the assembly will discuss this proposal for a decision and vote on it below. In view of the above-mentioned National Assembly of the SDS Group's proposal for an extension of the agenda, it will not consider the meeting. Procedural, Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You correctly stated our request for an extension of the agenda. In particular, we have made this request only because we have already addressed a request to the Mandate-Electorial Commission on 10 September to remove ourselves from the membership of the Free Commission, both our member of this Commission of Inquiry, Mr Zorn and his deputy, Mrs Irgl. We did this because the coalition did not take into account or did not want to take into account our proposal that the investigative commission in question also deal with some other freemen, such as, say, a freeman Good Morning or a freeman Blogorol, who are both in fact highly profiled and the main promotional freeman of the ruling coalition. So the coalition didn't like it. And we, as a group of Members, have no choice but to propose, because the Mandate-Volution Commission has not adopted an extension of the agenda, and thus we will also see that the Mandate-Volution Commission will consider this item at its meeting, at least on Thursday. However, given the nature of the reference, this item is not included on the agenda. We in the commission of inquiry, which has not taken our proposals into account and which treats free people very selectively, do not want to cooperate. And in similar cases, for example, in the previous term there have been at least two such cases, the Mandate-Election Commission immediately at its first next meeting addressed the request of the parliamentary group and resolved the membership of those who proposed to withdraw from the commission of inquiry. In this mandate, when dealing with the Red-Orange Coalition, there are no more rules in force in the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure are violated at all possible levels, both in the work of working bodies and in the work of the National Assembly. We propose that this item be placed on the agenda and that the Mandate-Volution Commission, which will take place on Thursday, extend the matter and decide on it. The abuse allowed by the Coalition in the work of the Mandate-Electorial Commission last Thursday is even worse. Instead of dismissing two of our members, it was decided that this commission of inquiry should be extended to two members from each parliamentary group and two of their deputies. In short, in a completely opposite direction. I therefore propose that we put the item on the agenda and decide on the request and proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, which proposes to draw on its candidates, its members on this investigative committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u3	Thank you very much. First of all, I must deny the general violations of the rules of procedure to which you referred. That's not true! Just if we were to consider and adopt a proposal to go on the agenda, we would essentially violate the rules of procedure and the customs and arrangements on the work of the National Assembly. As it is said, the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission will be held this week. And if a proposal is made, it will also be included in the meeting of the National Assembly. We will also deal with mandate-holder matters on the very last day of this meeting. However, if this proposal were not available, and if we were to extend what would be contrary to the Rules of Procedure, this point could not be addressed. Therefore, as I have already mentioned, I cannot put this proposal to the vote. I hereby conclude this debate. Mr. Kumer, procedurally? Procedural as there is no need for any substantive interpretation in this regard. Only if you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u4	Thank you. I think it's procedural because I want to tell you the facts. The proposal for an amendment, not for deletion, for an amendment to the Board of Inquiry was sent on 10 September following a regular meeting of the Commission of Commissioners. And I, as chairman, have made my own decision and added this item to the agenda. At the meeting, we adopted a proposal for a decision, which means that this amendment should be deleted from this Commission at the same time by a member and his deputy, and at the same time we have taken into account the law on the Commission of Inquiry and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to evaluate new members and alternates at the same meeting. That's how it's gonna be for the October session. However, I think I went even across the street from the Group of Members when I made an additional call, just so that things could be settled by October. In fact, there is already an invitation on the outside for parliamentary groups to propose additional members and their deputies. That is how I think we have not violated anything in the functioning of the Mandate-Volution Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Now, this is where the debate began. What Kumer said was not a procedural matter. You too have the opportunity, for the last time, to explain your proposal procedurally. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u6	Thank you very much. If this is so, as Mr Kumar says, then the proposal of the Group of Members on the Committee of Mandate-Election has been adopted and it would be incumbent on the Commission of Mandate-Election to include this proposal, such as the other proposals from the Commission of Mandate-Election, on the agenda of this meeting of the National Assembly. There is no reason for the decision to change the composition in which the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will no longer be included in this meeting of the National Assembly: either today or on Wednesday or Friday. And since the terms and conditions respected by the President of the National Assembly are to expand the agenda, we demand that this enlargement be decided by the National Assembly. However, if you manipulate the points in the selection of election cases to be placed on the agenda when it would seem appropriate for the coalition to have to deal with them, then it is exactly as I said that the red-orange coalition of rules of work in the National Assembly is contrary to current practice, contrary to the rules of procedure, it regulates and interprets in its own way and in its work as it pleases it. If the coalition wants to expand the number of members of the Mandate-Election Commission or the Commission of Inquiry, then let it do so and we will consider this at the October session. The decision to change the composition is, however, ready and should be included in this meeting of the National Assembly, which begins today. And I propose, we demand that the National Assembly decide on this.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Once again, if, as is the case with all elected matters, the material is prepared, you have the opportunity to discuss this at the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission until the conclusion of this item, which is the last point, as it were, at this meeting, the matter will be dealt with, otherwise not. I would be in violation of the extension if I put an extension to the vote because it is a mandate-voting matter, but also if we did not do so contrary to the Rules of Procedure, we would not be able to deal with it if the point were not prepared. This is a simple and simple fact that we all know. Mr Tanko, I'm sorry I can't give you another word on any other occasion with pleasure. I conclude this debate because the matter is clearly clear and unequivocal. That is why we are moving on to the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving to the vote. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Let's vote. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the agenda of the 20th meeting of the assembly has been set. We're moving to 41. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the appointment of candidates, which, in accordance with Article 17 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, becomes a Member for the remainder of the term of office instead of Members who have ceased their term of office. Because you're a magician. On 7 September 2010, Anton Ropa and Dr Matthew Lahovnik were suspended, the State Election Commission forwarded to the Assembly the finding that the members' mandates had been transferred to Andrei Magajno and Lojzet Posedel. The findings were examined by the Commission’s mandate-holder, who informed the assembly in writing. You've received the report. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? He doesn't want to. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? You signed up at this point? Yes, then representatives of the parliamentary groups at the point of determining the candidate. Please. At this point? Mr. Tanko, at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Mr President, I see that the work of the National Assembly is extremely unorganized. At the point of approval of Mr Posedel's mandate, I have been notified on behalf of both the parliamentary group and on my behalf. I would like to point out that you read at the meeting of the National Assembly on 9 July, at the beginning of the July session, that Mr Matthew Lahovnik had ceased to serve as Minister of Economy. I am not sure that Mr Lahovnik has also been given a mandate from this day on, but your coalition or you have only found at the end of this same meeting, or then at an extraordinary meeting, that, by appointing Mrs Radic, this term of office has passed on again to Mr Lahovnik. Here I think you've somehow adapted these rules to yourself in the coalition. As soon as you find out that the Minister has ceased to serve, we should find that the Lahovnik is once again a Member of the National Assembly, and from then on there is no commission of inquiry dealing with the Pivovarna Laško and others, no longer the President of the Commission of Inquiry, and Mr Posedel would no longer be a Member. Sorry, you didn't do that. You have done this contrary to current practice and this means once again some precedent in the functioning of the National Assembly. At the same time, I would say that the reasons for Mr Lahovnik's resignation are also entirely of concern. This is because the work of the Government was no longer transparent, which is supposed to be one of the fundamental principles. Here much is written in this letter, in a letter of resignation, regarding the participation of Ultra companies in the public tenders of its Ministry. He also wrote in the next letter, which was written on 8 July, that he believed that the issue of integrity and transparency of the work of the Minister of the Government was important for the development of Slovenia. Unfortunately, nothing happened on this integrity and transparency, and then the one who pointed out the conflict of interest that is taking place in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as in some other areas, left. That is why I see that this government coalition is hiding behind these solutions, for special approaches and obviously for its transparency and openness of the public at work is not a great improvement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Of course, I'm not going to define myself. I'm just going to explain myself. It is clear and clear that the National Assembly has taken note of the finding, by a communication from the Prime Minister of the Government that Minister Matthew Lahovnik has resigned and is serving as Minister until the appointment, namely for a certain period, clearly until the appointment of the new Minister. At the time this appointment was carried out, of course, the finding followed that Dr. Matej Lahovnik was acting as a Member of Parliament. I have explained this to you several times and confirmed it in writing. Flower Zalokar Orazem, representative of the Zares Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. In fact, I strongly protest that this matter, which the head of the SDS Group is constantly warming up as some established soup and exploiting such a procedural issue as the confirmation of the new Member's mandate due to the resignation of the previous Member, is taking advantage of this in order to even read the letters that have been written here; in short, I strongly protest against the way and allowing – I know that you and the president are embarrassed – but this is unacceptable. We cannot talk here about some substantive matters, the reasons for the resignation, and this for some derogation that we have already been informed about before the holidays. This is a full exploitation of the matter only in order to talk about something here again, which is not the subject of this point. The subject of this point is the confirmation of the Member's mandate to replace the person who has resigned. So I think there's been a serious violation of the rules of procedure. Since the President has not protested, I will allow myself to do so, because I think it is unacceptable that this is how we play and exploit the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for a fully substantive debate on matters which are not subject and are not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Any other representatives of the parliamentary group? He doesn't want to. Do Members and Members want the word? So, I don't have any of your applications, but you can log in from the bench. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think I signed up in writing for the debate. This was suggested, so I proposed, and I think this has also been given in writing. This point was considered just as our point of view when we proposed a change in the composition of the members of the commission of inquiry of so-called free-of-chargers – at the same meeting. And one point is being considered today, and this is the confirmation of the mandate of the two Members, and the second point for which the report is likely to be prepared is not being submitted to the National Assembly and is not being considered. I would strongly protest against such a way of working here. Secondly, unfortunately, there is not enough debate as to what the reasons for the withdrawal are. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u13	Mr. Tanko, I must warn you, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u14	Yeah. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u15	Wherever this debate was, it was and will be, and I am sure there will be a debate. [[...]] But only at this point will I not allow it! That's the first warning. The third warning follows the turning off of the microphone, you know that. So there wouldn't be a dilemma. There has been a debate, and there has been a lot, and there will be a lot of debate about it, but not at this point, Mr Tanko. I'll tell you that now, that's the first warning, one more time.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that. I expect the Member to act transparently and transparently and to ensure, in his work, that Members, citizens and others have a view of the quality of the work of ministries and also of the Commission, which is likely to continue to lead them. I think that in the work that Members have to do, there is a great deal of attention to whether the content of the work in the areas that we are about to adopt is such that it is their function to allow for a transparent review in order to enable them to take account of the laws and other matters as well. Unfortunately, we have also witnessed in this period when some members of the National Assembly, particularly members of the coalition, including those in the National Assembly in the most responsible positions, do not carry out tasks in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, both members of the College and the President of the National Assembly, require them to be particularly careful in their work, in accordance with the rules of procedure, that work is carried out in accordance with the law, but, as you can see, during this period, also at this meeting of the National Assembly, things that do not have any basis are happening. When the interests of the ruling coalition are strongly privileged on the one hand and in the other case forces opposition parties or opposition parties to participate in the investigative commission, although they do not wish to participate there, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u17	Mr. Tanko, this is not the subject of this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u18	Of course it is! In confirming the mandates, I am talking about the tasks of those who receive such a mandate. Finally, I must conclude here that the work in the National Assembly needs to be changed if the National Assembly wants to receive a public opinion survey, if it wants to gain credibility and if we want to deal in fact with problems that are the basis or the problem of the functioning of this country. And unfortunately, all too often, we can find that by trying various tricks, abuses, we can distract ourselves from the fundamental problems of the country, from developmental and other fundamental problems and try to shift these things to purely different things. I expect the new Member to adapt his work to the acts of the National Assembly, to the laws and to give added value to his work to the National Assembly. If, however, the practice of the coalition Members so far goes on, then our expectation is in vain.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u19	Thank you very much. I'm just gonna let you know that you signed up wrong. You have applied for agenda item 34.d, which is item 41.d. of the agenda, so of course I did not have you listed as a debater, not for the Group of Members and not individually. Does any other Member and Member want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We move to a vote on the next proposal for a decision. The parliamentary mandate of Andre Magajna, born on 4 May 1952, residing in Ljubljana, Mihov stradon 13. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the decision has been taken. We vote on the next proposal for a decision. Aloyz's mandate confirmed [[Loizet]] The seat, born on 26 August 1955, located in Žalec, 11 Rista Savina Street. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[It was 73 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the decision has been taken. I invite Ambassador Andrej Magajno and Loizet Posedel to join us and to meet their seats. We are moving on to the consideration of the finding of termination of the function of a Member under Article 14 of the Law on Members. Mr Magajna is not a new face in the National Assembly, so I do not particularly welcome him. Therefore, we are moving to point D, although I welcome, in view of the decision of the State Election Commission that the mandate of the Member of the National Assembly in the Third Election Unit for Members to the National Assembly from the list of candidates Social Democrats SD came to Andrei Magajno and taking into account the fact that Andrej Magajna replaced the elected Member of the Parliament, Dr. Franceto Križanič, at the time he served as Minister in the Government, the elected candidate, Andrej Magajna, has ceased to serve as Ambassador of the National Assembly, Dr. Franceto Križanič, at the time when he is serving as Minister of the Government. The findings were addressed by the Commission’s mandate, which also reported in writing to the assembly. You've received the report. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] Do Members and Members want the word? [[They don't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. On the basis of Article 14 of the Law on Members, the National Assembly shall be informed of the following conclusion. On the date of confirmation of the mandate of the Member pursuant to Article 17 of the Law on Elections of Members to the National Assembly, Andrej Magajna shall cease to act as a Member under Article 14 of the Law on Members. I note that the National Assembly has taken note of the conclusion that Andrej Magajna is no longer acting as alternate Member because he has become a permanent Member for the remainder of the term of office. We are moving on to the examination of the appointment of a candidate who will act as a Member instead of a Member acting in the Government in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members. Taking into account the fact that Andrej Magajna has ceased to serve as a Member under Article 14 of the Law on Members, the right to replace the Member of Dr. Frances Križanič, the next candidate in the order of order of votes obtained in the total number of votes in the constituency from the list of candidates of the Social Democrats, the SD in the third constituency for the election of Members to the National Assembly. This right has passed on to Janez Kiklj. The findings were addressed by the Commission’s mandate, which also reported in writing to the assembly. You've received the report. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representatives of parliamentary groups? [[They don't want to.]] The MPs and the MPs? [[They don't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We move to a vote on the next proposal for a decision. As long as the Member of the Parliament of France Križanič serves as Minister in the Government and therefore, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members, is unable to act as a Member, he shall act in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members of the Members of the Republic of 20 September 2010 Janez Kikelj, born on 23 July 1972, residing at Verda, Crimean Squad 32, Vrhnika. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 73 Members and Members present. It's 73 votes against no one. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I invite Ambassador Janez Kiklj to join us and occupy his post. Of course, I wish my colleague a successful job in the parliamentary benches. [[Applause]] I hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue on Wednesday, 22 September 2010. I am also adjourning the 20th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed at 3 p.m. with questions from Members and Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u20	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue with the adjourned session! We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - IT'S ON THE QUESTIONS OF MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I have received 44 written applications for questions sent to me within the deadline of business. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member shall have three minutes to ask the question, the President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be given by the Member within two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asks a question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who asks a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On this point, the following ministers and ministers apologized for today: mag. Dejan Židan, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr. Boštjan Žekš, Minister without a Resource, responsible for the area of relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous national community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world, Dr. Patrick Vlačič, Minister of Transport, from 17.30 onwards and Majda Širca, Minister of Culture. You have received a review of the questions sent to you, which were not answered within the deadline of business. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. As we say, the first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Borut Pahor. The question will be asked by Franz Bogovic, the Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please. Procedurally, I apologize. Mr. Croat has a procedural word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u21	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We utter thousands of words every day among ourselves, and as the days are different among ourselves, so are the words which we say to each other. For some I can say it would be better if we never heard them. However, there are words for which it is essential that we speak them honestly and out of our heart at certain times. One of those words is a simple word of thanks. Simply because, in its simplicity, it says everything we want to say and set directly to the point. I am deeply convinced that all those people, we are talking about men and women who have in any way jumped to help with the last floods when nature has actually demonstrated its power, and I think it is right and these people deserve to be spoken to them in the name of the National Assembly: thank you. Thank you in particular for their unselfishness, for their kindness and for their self-sacrifice. My proposal is that the leadership of the National Assembly prepare a joint thank-you to all those who have helped with these recent events in Slovenia, on behalf of all of us, all of us, all of the nineties, and simply be thanked. Whoever felt it on their own knows what I'm talking about. It's about people who actually left their heart where it needed to be. I'm talking about people who have actually helped themselves and are still helping. A lot of volunteer firefighters, professional firefighters, volunteers, members of civil protection and so on is still on the ground. And I think that the least that we, Members and Members can do is say thank you. Those people who helped and helped, they'll understand, they don't need big words. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Surely the National Assembly and leadership will thank all those who have worked unselfishly and in solidarity and are working to remedy the consequences of these floods. And before us, the National Assembly, it is also this task to re-examine and determine whether all our solutions are such that they allow for the proper and facilitated work of the few men and women who have sacrificed themselves over the last weekend for the fact that the country and people have not suffered as badly as they could. Let's move on. The first question will be asked by Franz Bogovic of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Honourable President of Parliament, Honourable President of the Government, Honourable Council of Ministers, Honourable Colleagues and Colleagues! Also, on my part, thank you sincerely to those firefighters with whom we drew water from Krske until three o’clock at night. I sincerely thank Minister Jelusič, who visited us and also gave us an incentive in this work. At this point, however, I am asking the President of the Government a question. For some time now, as Prime Minister of the Government, you have been predicting systemic reforms, reform of the health system, reform of the pension system, labour law, saving the public sector if we list just a few of the most important. We are all aware that without these reforms there is no solution from the economic crisis, I hope to say that neither is our future and the future of the Republic of Slovenia. And what is the situation in these areas? Savings in the public sector, you've already given up on doctors, public sector unions have announced a strike at the time of the forecast wage freeze. Reform of labour legislation, the pressure of trade unions has been removed from the agenda. The pension reform, before you were able to complete it, was announced by all trade unions in Slovenia. The reform of the health system is currently only in public debate. The economy is barely surviving the current difficult times, and the necessary reforms are collapsing into dust. Although the Slovenian People's Party is an opposition party, we are pursuing a constructive policy, as is evident from our actions in Parliament. We are aware that these reforms are urgently necessary, but we miss dialogue both with the public concerned and with us, i.e. the opposition's parliamentary party. We believe that around such important systemic reforms we should first unify ourselves within the overall Slovenian policy and then present solutions to the public. In this way, the possibilities for implementing and implementing reforms would be much greater than they are now when public reform proposals are not harmonised even through the kind of coalition. Dear Prime Minister, I ask you: How will you solve the situation? What happened to your conversational willingness to talk, dialogue and search for solutions that identified you as president of the National Assembly and later president of the opposition party? When will you finally, this time in fact, invite all policy players to the same table as the one with the scissors and the canvas of the Slovenian future and thus establish the necessary dialogue to find a solution for our common future?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister, Mr. Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u25	Your Honor! On Thursday, I attended the Council of the European Union, which was dedicated at least during a working lunch to the actions of the European Union to bring the countries of the European Union out of the crisis successfully. The prepared financial regulation provides for major penalties for those who do not meet the expected results of the consolidation of public finances in a few years. Slovenia is doing relatively well in this respect. We're on the right track for recovery. However, some decisions will have to be very disciplined. These include decisions concerning structural reforms. The government is disciplined in keeping schedules and plans related to this. If we give in to this, we risk putting some of the controversy on the agenda in the short term, and in the long term we will be responsible for imposing sanctions on the country in a few years' time, which our citizens will also feel. And I don't want to be responsible for that. We have already put forward a proposal in the parliamentary procedure, if I may say so, for pension reforms. By the end of the year, this is the plan, and there will be an agreement under the roof on health reform. The National Assembly will soon discuss one of the instruments concerning spending restrictions in the public sector. We are talking about the fundamental movements that we are witnessing at Slovenia's exit from the crisis and are the product of many discussions with the social partners, but not necessarily the consensus between them. As a rule, there was no consensus, as it was necessary, and this should be taken into account in the assessment, in a relatively short period of time, by relatively radical changes. We could decide to extend the discussion time between the social partners, but we would risk that, despite the extended period of time, there would be no agreement and time would be lost. The government has decided to take on its own responsibility for these reforms and to propose them to the National Assembly for adoption. Soon as any of the details of these reforms in the National Assembly will not be changed, however, the Government wants more or less to come within the National Assembly to the majority of its support for these reforms. At this time, there will also be ample opportunities for a purely political dialogue between the coalition and the opposition on what is good and what is bad. My intention, through a purely practical communication between the opposition and the coalition on structural and other reforms and other issues of economic recovery, has come to light because, let me just remind you, one of the important opposition parties has made it a condition that we first reach agreement on the text of the cooperation document. This would take us a long time, the time that the government needs to coordinate reforms. Therefore, once again, honourable Member, let me tell you: The government is at the time that it was available, and this is relatively limited, has prepared for each other reforms that come before this high assembly. During the time of the committees, among them, to discuss at the meetings of the National Assembly, this will mostly follow a regular procedure, and there will be sufficient time for all to show a constructive approach to these reforms. I don't think it is imperative that we always just have to be commended, but I expect that any solution that will be proposed if assessed as a bad, better solution is proposed. And the government will also try to listen to this. In short, for once Slovenia is recovering relatively well. If we want a successful exit from the crisis, we need to stick to some of our plans that we have set ourselves, structural reforms are coming one by one into the National Assembly and the opposition's chances of participating in our joint success are great.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete your answer, Mr. Bogovich? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u27	Dear President of the Government, I am afraid that even from this answer we are missing what we really are missing in the Slovenian People's Party. Such demanding reforms as Slovenia must adopt, which I have previously counted, are reforms that need very much political support. We note from one to the other the reforms that you have listed to us, the differences within the coalition, sometimes I have a very serious feeling that some coalition partners are not involved in anything but the current accumulation of political voices and that they think that the state treasury is unlimited and will never run out of space in it. On the other hand, the other reforms also show major differences within the largest political party. And when you say that because one of the opposition parties has set some conditions, you don't have to talk to others, I don't think there's a proper way to work at this time. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have given very clear guidance, support for reform, and also a very constructive opinion on what we think should be done. However, Mr President, I think that in this optimistic performance of yours, I myself like to be optimistic, and I am, by nature, optimistic, even in these difficult days, we were optimistic when we were saving the city from an accident, but I think it is right that there is something real in us too. We have increased the public debt, the public debt represents 30% of tax revenue per year in the budget, we have increased the debt by half, the interest has already reached 550 million this year, by the end of the mandate there will be 700 million, that is 10% of the budget. The pension register still needs 20% of the tax revenue to make the end of the pension fund total [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] And I'm very afraid that it's really about time, not only are we saying that from the crisis, if we got a percentage from 85% of some production a few years ago, two up, but to really look at [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u29	I want to take this opportunity for the next emphasis. We are in a very delicate position if the first signs of economic recovery and the illusion that we have come out of the crisis could further weaken the courage and will to change. I see again the fear of change and the temptation to pretend that without these changes, Slovenia can successfully come out of the crisis. Just as we are finally moving towards the light at the end of the tunnel after the difficult year 2009 in the second half of 2010, there must be an additional incentive to continue with reforms, not any kind of reforms, we are not talking about having to vote overnight, there will be enough room and time in this high house to take time to thoroughly rethink the solutions, and the government will, I must say, scrupulously prepare the reform for reform, try to harmonise it with the social partners if it considers that social dialogue will help with the quality of the proposed reforms. In the end, however, the government is responsible for whether the reforms are before the National Assembly or not. I want to do this responsibility. There will be reforms in front of the National Assembly. One by one will be less popular. The more people think the crisis is over, the less ready they will be to change. It will be so much harder for us to convince the social partners, the public, not least this high house that it is. But that's right. Some countries have already gone through some changes, some, most will just go. And so are we. We must also show a little courage and perseverance and determination to go through these changes. Without change, honourable Member, not any kind of change, but changes that ensure long-term sustainability, not only financially, but also otherwise, Slovenia cannot successfully come out of this crisis. The government will give Parliament here all the necessary tools to finally decide which of these will be taken out of the crisis by Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Bogovich? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u31	Dear President! In the Slovenian People's Party, we have already started to talk first about the need to save, that reforms are needed. And we don't have to prove that reforms are necessary. We want to participate as a constructive opposition party in establishing reforms and to try together with the Government, which, as I have already said, has much harder work within us to agree on what is good for Slovenia. In these reforms, it is necessary to save, on the one hand, and on the other hand some courage, when something needs to be done to start the economy. We're not going to be able to do this with permanent savings alone. However, it is in our party that we have been convincing your ministers for the past two years that various infrastructure measures should be continued to start the economy. The municipalities are driving economic development in Slovenia today. And secondly, we're convincing your ministers, and I don't know that it's necessary to build hydro power plants on the Sava River, an investment that builds energy infrastructure, an investment that protects Slovenia and Slovenia from floods. I think a broader dialogue is needed here. It is not enough if you just prepare legislation "take or leave" to the unions and the opposition. We think that these are such difficult reforms that if this dialogue does not first come between us all here in Parliament and that at least we will come quite in line from this house, there is no way to convince Slovenia and Slovenia. Above all, I think it is necessary to pour pure wine, and from these very optimistic words, I stress once again, it is right that they are, but we also have to operate with real numbers and tell people that it is true. And in Slovenia today it is very real. Just as this weekend went for those living along watercourses in Slovenia, and it was necessary to react quickly, decisively. Today, Slovenia is on this path and we therefore need a strong word. We need to sit together and make a deal. And I'm really telling you, as an opposition Member, I feel very bad. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u32	Mr. Bogovich, procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u33	Sir, I have 30 seconds left. Thank you very much! As an opposition Member, I would very much like to work together, just as we are working in a creative way elsewhere. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we propose to talk. Perhaps, in preparation for this session, the esteemed Prime Minister of the Government, you will find time to speak with the opposition as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u34	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Franz Bogovic to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, on Tuesday, 21 September 2010, in the framework of the vote. The question to the Prime Minister of the Government will be presented by Bogdan Barovic of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u35	Your Honor! The external political representative of the European Union, Catherine Ashton, presented last week a list of 29 appointments to high positions in the European diplomatic service among the newly appointed European Union ambassadors in third countries. Most of the cities were allocated to the old members of the European Union and selected Bulgaria and Lithuania among the new ones. Slovenia applied and wished to have two senior diplomatic representatives, namely Albania and Macedonia, but did not receive any. The Slovenian national party has been a very realistic party to the European Union since the beginning of the approximation of Slovenia. All these years, we have repeatedly warned all current governments not to implement slave policies towards the European Union, as we Slovenians do to Vienna, as we Slovenians do to Belgrade and to Brussels today. But this government blindly obeys the European Union in all its decisions. Thus, when opening chapters with Croatia, despite the threat of Slovenian inviolability. This government has complied with the European Union's allocation of 400 million to the Greeks, for whom it will even be in charge of this government, and it does not have 200 million for Slovenian workers and does not want to be in charge of them. This government has rejected a billion euro worth of business with Azerbaijan, perhaps out of fear of Europe or perhaps in accordance with instructions from Europe. This government has blindly complied with Europe, providing an unconditional guarantee to Europe for 2 billion euros, which we will give to the poor in Europe if necessary. This government, however, has silenced the Swedish Parliament's warning that such aid should not be self-sustaining during the financial crisis in which all the members of the European Union were in breach of the principle of subsidiarity, and it is not fair that those countries affected by the crisis should be financed by all other countries. You also silenced our proposal from Sweden, which says that each country is responsible for financing only its financial scheme. Why did I say that? This is all a policy of good relations with Europe, while Europe told us, 'No, you don't have a diplomat'. That is why I ask you, Mr President: How is it possible that there is no Slovenian during the twenty-nine appointments? In this case, the Slovenian national party is convinced that discrimination against Slovenia in the implementation of the common European foreign policy is a matter of interest to us: Who, when and how will protest against the decision of High Foreign Representative Catherine Ashton? Finally: What will Slovenia do in relation to the European Union if it does not have a diplomat in the implementation of European foreign policy?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister, Mr. Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u37	Slovenia already has its diplomatic representatives in the secretariat of this service, and we can be satisfied with both their number and their quality and the service they perform. The European Commission or the High Representative for Foreign and Security Policy is also pleased with their services. Another time. Like all other countries, Slovenia expressed protest and dissatisfaction after the first round of coordinating the appointment of diplomats within the emerging European diplomatic network when the diplomat did not receive it. Of course, to improve our bargaining opportunities in front of the second round. Slovenia will certainly get its diplomatic representatives in the European diplomatic network. But there's one thing I have to say honestly. As soon as we did not avoid this controversy and this discussion, if Slovenia was deprived of something or even if one of the Slovenian ministers or I personally had done a bad job, if we had offered Catherine Ashton at the outset what was in the end, this proved to be, indeed, a search, and this is highly qualified diplomatic representatives who had long experience within the institutions of the European Union. We have some such diplomats, but more than within the European diplomatic network, we need them at home. That is why we have decided that, despite having some good candidates, diplomats and diplomats for the common European foreign diplomatic network, we will not give these rare diplomats, who have experience with European institutions in addition to all other references, in the first round. With this, of course, we risked that Slovenia would lose its candidate or candidate in the first round. She'll get it in the second round. I spoke to the High Representative, and she was also spoken to by Foreign Minister Žbogar. We assure you. However, once again, when we decide whether the people needed by European foreign policy should be given to European foreign policy or whether, because they are rare goods, we should remain in the Slovenian diplomatic network, this time in the first step, in the first third of the appointment, we decided to keep them for Slovenian needs. Because they are people, we do not have many of them who have, among other diplomatic references, a very, very good knowledge of the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr President of the Government, Slovenia has decided to join the European Union and I think we keep telling citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia that we live not only in the Republic of Slovenia but also in a large country called Europe. We are therefore convinced in the Slovenian National Party that Slovenia must have a high diplomatic representative in third countries on behalf of the European Union country, because Slovenia is capable and therefore has its recognition within the European Union for all its good deeds. As far as I am aware, the second round of the invitation to tender for high diplomats in third countries within the European Union will be for Brazil and two other countries, but I am sure that Slovenia has proposed two candidates for Albania and Macedonia for some reason. And I think that the appointment of these diplomats, for this precise reason in these two countries, would also bring something useful to Slovenia. To be fair, each of us plays an important role in Europe in order to ensure proper space within the European countries. I would therefore like an additional reply. You said that Slovenia would re-apply for the appointment of a high diplomatic representative. If you can answer me: At what time will this be and for what third country in particular?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u41	In view of the assurances made by High Representative Catherine Ashton, I can say that Slovenia will make its diplomats available to the European diplomatic network and will accept this. Where they'll get their place, they'll decide Catherine Ashton. As we say, if we want to get one or two diplomats for every price in the first round, then we should give one or two diplomats among the rare, who, in addition to other diplomatic experiences, also know very well the work of the European institutions. We simply need them more at home than the European diplomatic network needs, and we will meet the expectations of Catherine Ashton in the next round with the candidates, so that Slovenian diplomats will also be appointed to the European diplomatic network. I'm giving you these assurances.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u42	Thank you very much. The question to the Prime Minister of the Government will be raised by Zvonko Černač of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u43	Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! Data on the operation of the country in the past year, this is the first year for which your government is fully responsible, are poor. Some 7.5 billion euros of revenue have been budgeted and 9.3 billion euros have been drained, with a deficit of almost €2 billion. However, the question is whether it is credible at all, as the data were misrepresented in the Court of Auditors’ view, and therefore a two-fold negative opinion was issued. The debt of the state budget is increasing from day to day, amounting to almost EUR 12 billion. These are all symptoms that have made Greece very difficult. The economy of jails, every day we witness new bankruptcys and job closures. On the other hand, the results of this year will not be any better. Instead of effective measures, the search for the right solutions, which on the one hand would reduce public consumption and, on the other hand, enable the economy to relaunch, and in the public eye have aroused the optimism needed to overcome the crisis situation, the prime minister is investing energy in the business with Libya, which, in particular, is in favour of the completion of the wild ownership of the largest Slovenian construction company, 100 new BMWs for the needs of the Government, because young yesians, directors of companies close to the ruling SD and other similar projects are willing to make money beyond public competition and competition rules. The public is rightly asked, it is a panic, it is customerism or perhaps even corruption. Socialist governments in Europe have generally proved unsuccessful. A typical example is our neighbour in Hungary, who, after two socialists in power, after they were creating the balance sheets, also admitted under pressure from the public, is only difficult to collect from the ground. I'm asking: Is Slovenia waiting for the same scenario, or is that why, Prime Minister, you are so headlessly running into a search for solutions that are all like boomerang coming back to you as unsuccessful? Do you really believe that the Slovenian economy can be saved from the crisis with foreign investment and foreign business, regardless of what the source of money is? I want to know: What bank is going to be married to a deal with Libya? Which of these transactions will the state budget have? Which of these will our Slovenian economy have? What will our Slovenian workers last have to do with this? How many jobs with high added value will the Prime Minister be born in the coming years on the basis of these transactions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u45	We will never know how any other government would have acted in the special circumstances of the economic recession, but I think that it will remain in memory that at the beginning of the crisis we have tried first to preserve the social security of the most affected people – and today I am not sorry for this decision – and that, although this trust is not of an erupting nature, we have managed to maintain enough social and political cohesion so that we can now tackle those interventions that are deeply anchored in the competitiveness of our economy. These measures include economic diplomacy. Libya would not be particularly exposed because, like any other country, it is subject to our interest. It is one of the richest countries in Africa, with great intent to invest in other countries or to have construction investments in its own country in particular, and it is interesting to us in this respect. From these interventions, not as Prime Minister, not me personally, not my colleagues have nothing, people who succeed in these orders in Libya. And I have always said that, both in this country and in China, as in all the other countries we visit, I will strive to help the Slovenian economy, one company, five or ten to see in the new markets the opportunity for their new businesses. And that's what we do. Without any special interests, not my personal, not the interests of the coalition, but the interests of the government, who is trying to lead the country at this time. And we are not the only country to seek opportunities with investments in third countries to revive economic growth at home. Your allegations that in 2000 things went as badly as they did in 2009 are not accurate. And you know exactly that they're not accurate. I am not saying, far from this, it is not in Slovenian nature either, that we must now be boundless optimist. All I am saying is that we have been through the worst and that Slovenia is on the path of economic recovery, that these results achieved are not strong enough to allow us now to leave the course of events calmly, but that we must follow the path of the measures outlined. It took some time to come up with some decisions, such as structural reforms, which will now be the subject of debate in the National Assembly. And in the National Assembly, you will be able to decide how appropriate the Government has negotiated either with the social partners or has its own proposals for a way out of the crisis. Your Honor! The Slovenian government is trying to focus its actions on the way out of the crisis, for the first time. Secondly, it tries to place the burden of the social crisis in proportion to the strength or weakness of the social strata. Thirdly, it understands that social peace cannot be burdened with long-term non-competitiveness. But the opposite. That it is only with long-term competitiveness that we have or have had so far with regard to the average development of our country vis-à-vis the other countries of the European Union. And that's what we're doing. And as a result, we are also subject to numerous attacks and criticisms and objections. And certainly what we do is not popular, but it is essential. And now it's your decision, not mine, yours, whether you'll be involved in this, with criticisms, with different opinions, maybe even some support or not. But the government is doing my job to me because it's our historical duty. And I'm not worried about the fate of other governments as to their political stance. And I can't say about any of the measures, whether it's from a toolbox for socialist, social-democratic, neoliberal or conservative parties. The Slovenian government is reaching out to all those instruments that it considers to be in favour of our country's exit from the crisis. Sometimes we manage this quickly enough, skilled enough, generous enough, but sometimes we also run into problems that are at least sometimes shorter in the short run than we are, but we courageously try to grow up with our perseverance.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete your answer, Mr. Chernač?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u47	The Prime Minister, I, too, believe that most of the public believe that you personally understand that you are trying to be successful in this, but the facts are different. I'm afraid they're different. In a year, actually in two years, there will soon be a second anniversary, since you were confirmed as a mandate-holder in the National Assembly, there is no consequence of these decisions. I'm afraid they're gone. And one of the concrete things I asked you about was this business in Libya, where you went to greet one of the last dictators. And the first information from this visit that the public has learned is that the President of the Government has abused half a billion valuable works in the field of construction. Your Minister of Economy Mrs Radiceva fixed you up a few moments after that and said the deal was done by the SCT. So the Prime Minister of the Government has appeared as a lobbyist for a private company, a company that pays the workers in a miserable way and has recently gotten rid of a number of workers in the form of setting up a disability company. The company in which the investigators discovered documentation confirming suspicions of money laundering, fictitious remittances abroad with a view to the wild ownership of the company. And what happened? Nothing. This company was awarded half a billion Euros worth of business by the Prime Minister of the Government. Will Slovenian workers benefit from this job? Will the Slovenian State benefit from this deal? Nobody. And in this case, it was not just about mentioning the President of the government in the media, but it was about directly and directly lobbying the President of the Government for the benefit of a private company. Dear Prime Minister! I don't know if I've been understanding enough in my questions. I'm asking you about small print. The public wants to know about the small print of these transactions, not only that, but also all others who have not been led and driven in a transparent way, I believe that there is ambition to do something. But this ambition, as you can see, is wrong after the public and everyone else's responses.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u49	Dear Mr. President! Yes, before this high assembly, I admit that I will do everything I can to help the group, to help the company in foreign markets, as far as possible, whether it is a state-owned, mixed or private company. When Chancellor Merklov goes to China, which companies do you think he works for? For the state, or for the private? He works for all the companies. And so do I. Do I have any bad news about the deal with the Prime Minister of Libya regarding the SCT business? No bad news. I'd do it again. And I will, as soon as I have the chance. The problem is that you do not know enough about what is done to get businesses to do business, and how often we are silent and do it discreetly because it is an integral part of some businesses, not ours, but others. And we don't get anything for it. We do this because it's our job. I said that it will recover from Slovenia's economic recovery, we will also have to come to markets where we have not been present so far. Other countries are also coming to these markets, as democratic as we are, from the same union as we are, and are trying to set up businesses that are privately owned. And that, of course, also benefits the home countries. Who do you think other government presidents and government presidents are doing business in third countries? Again? For these companies. And these are companies that are usually private companies. My task was to resolve some of the misunderstandings that have occurred in the conclusion of SCT deals with the entity concerned with investment on the Libyan side. And in this case, the Prime Minister of Libya and I have eliminated these misunderstandings. I thought that was my homework. For the homework of the President of the Government. And I can have every CEO, every CEO, and he can suggest to me what I should do to help him. And I'm gonna help him. That's what I'm saying without a bad conscience. But if you think this is wrong, tell me and let's have a debate here at the National Assembly. What is the task of the Prime Minister? I think it is the task of the President of the Government to lead and direct the work of ministers at home, to have a clear vision of where he wants to bring the achievements of this government with the direction of this work, and I repeat, it is not true that the results of this year are as bad as they were last year. Just as other economies have started out from the crisis, especially those that are more commercially interesting to us, so we have started from the crisis slowly. It is now about how strong we will be at the end of this crisis in a developmental and social sense. In this sense, it is our great task and responsibility to go to the new markets and be willing to do it again.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Blackach? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u51	I propose that, on the basis of the rules of procedure, this National Assembly shall hold a debate on these replies from the President of the Government. No excitement, Your Honor. Slovenia needs a calm, judgmental President of the Government, and in particular needs a Prime Minister of the Government, who will be equal to everyone, no matter what colors they may be. You know, diplomats who are capable, let's say they can't paint like Easter eggs. It's the same as any company in this country. It is interesting what care has been expressed to a fully private company. There was no such concern on your part towards a company that is partly state-owned, this is Vegrad. I am just reading today that these workers will finally get 240 euros in wages for August. When you concluded, you expressed yourself, the deal in Libya, you said, "We reached out to the Libyan Prime Minister for a deal worth more than half a billion euros." And it immediately followed the addition of the competent minister that the business had been concluded by the SCT. So I take it that way, Prime Minister, that the SCT deal was concluded by the Prime Minister of Libya's conclusion. We know what customs and rules apply in this part of the world [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u52	Comrade Montenegro, Mr President of the Government can no longer answer. I warn you, just explain the proposal, because the President can no longer answer, he cannot argue with you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u53	And we also know that this business will have to be guaranteed by a state guarantee. [[...]] These are all questions that have not been answered. I have repeatedly pointed out that it would be right to find out about the small print. Not only in this case, but also in all the other cases that have happened to those uncontested 100 BMWs for the Government, where the deal has taken place again in a circle of three directors, members of the Association Yes, who would all earn, both Hypo Leasing, were written by the media about 15,000 euros per vehicle, as a vehicle salesman, as those who would build these solar power plants [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u54	Comrade Blacky, please be in the dark. Please do it again!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u55	Just a question if the state had something to do with it. [[...]] Dear President, I explain why this debate would be necessary and welcome, because in a few minutes these things cannot be explained. I think this debate is also in the interests of the President of the Government. It would be wise for him to explain before the National Assembly why he feels a little more fond of just one another than others, or whether he feels that the function he performs does not make it conditional on him to be equal to all in that country, in particular to all economic operators. In the context of this debate, it should also be clarified how such privileges can be granted to an undertaking which does not pay taxes which does not pay contributions to its employees who do not pay its subcontractors, and a real undertaking which should be processed through other instruments of this rule of law, represented by the President of the Government, in an appropriate manner. I expect this debate to be held in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u56	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Zvonk Černač to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, on Tuesday, 21 September 2010, in the framework of the votes. A question for the Prime Minister of the Government will be presented by Joško Godec of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u57	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Council of Ministers, Mr President of the Government of Colleagues and Colleagues! A question sent to the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia regarding pensions in the future. Since the Slovenian pension centre has been shaken in recent days by news from the media in the event of a possible re-freezing of pensions, which is due to expire at the end of this year, I ask you, Mr President: What are the government's intentions in this direction? If such a government's intention exists and could possibly be realized, how would it be defended as justified in view of the fact that the pension register in the following year will be cleared of state pensions and a security allowance as well as two transfers which, according to the sources of funding, did not belong to it and will therefore be made available more funds for pensions? The crisis is taking place and economic growth is showing, so there would no longer be a reason why last year an intervention measure of 50% of the pension freeze was adopted for this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u59	Here the honourable Member mentioned something that I mentioned earlier as a problem that no one would, indeed, be paradoxical in these times too quickly to see the way out of the crisis. A way out of the crisis is possible, we see a light at the end of the tunnel, but if we want to get there, we need to go through some unloved steps, including the announced measure that you discussed in your own question. You said that economic recovery is a strong enough reason to give up some of the measures ahead. See, the Government, in the proposal already submitted to the National Assembly, is a proposal that does not, in fact, allow for higher salaries for civil servants in the public sector, has said that we must in some way – and we have tried to be as just as possible in terms of social burdens – bear these burdens to come out of the crisis. Among other things, this solidarity also concerns solidarity between generations, not only solidarity between layers, especially of course the solidarity of the one who is more powerful, towards the one who is socially weaker, but also solidarity between layers. There is no degree of economic growth and strength required to ensure that certain measures are abandoned at this time. The conclusions are not yet definitive, but we are thinking in this direction that pensioners should also bear their share of the burden, which must, of course, be proportionate to their social situation. And we have been discussing all the time whether it is possible within this generation to have differences in approach, given that pensioners are better or worse socially. We are talking about all of this with those who are preparing the budget, and together with you we will try to find some solutions that, at least as we wish, will be understood in public as socially balanced solutions. I'm guessing, given the government's decision at the previous meeting to take us in the direction you're talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete your answer, Mr. Godec? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u61	I would also like to ask Mr President: Do you think it is opportunistic to create an image in the public that pensioners are the ones most burdening the country and it is therefore justified that they are involved in a measure of mitigation or relief from the crisis by freezing pensions? Is it forgotten that the current generations of pensioners have filled an active pension fund with contributions throughout their lifetime, recalling also the reduction in the contribution rate for pension and disability insurance from 31 % to 24,35 %, which has been reflected in the way that the contribution rate has been reduced only in the case of employers, by reducing the worker's contribution rate by almost half, according to the employee's contribution, 8.85 % of the employer, 15.5% of the worker? In spite of the fact that this reduction should be of a mere temporary nature, nothing has happened in this regard either after the tax on salaries was abolished or during favourable economic growth, the State budget has remained the one to cover the gap between income and expenditure in the PSI. In addition, in the past, some important state investments have been financed from surpluses in the pension register, which had no connection with the purpose of the pension fund, for example: roads, caravan tunnels and so on. Today, however, the state would like to place the burden of the crisis on pensioners who have paid a fair wage in their pension, expecting them to secure a decent pension at their age.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u62	Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u63	For all these debates on fairness and justice, I think that these are two legitimate concepts for discussing measures, and there will be opportunities for discussion in the National Assembly - at the home work bodies and in this high house in plenary sessions. See, if and as far as possible, for opportunistic reasons, the Government would like to give up any measure that would obviously not disturb this or that public. I will tell you very honestly what my philosophy is like, and my colleagues sitting with me at formal and informal meetings to tell you whether what I'm about to tell you here in this high choir is indeed or not. My opinion is as follows, there are historical periods when someone has to do what he thinks is right, and not what someone would think is right - and such a historic period is now. Right now, this has fallen on the shoulders of the government I'm running, and we're going to do this historic task. We will try to find the right balance between different social groups, by trying to protect those who are more vulnerable, to protect and burden those who are more powerful. We will try to ensure for young people the same position, perspective, confidence in the future, as well as the social security of the generation, which has worked fairly and well for many decades to enjoy the fruits of its autumn. Absolutely! And here there is probably no prophet among us who could measure this righteousness and justice definitively and per millimeter. We'll talk, but please keep this in front of your eyes. This is simply to be done. We must show so much courage and political will, and there is probably no time here at this critical moment in history for opportunism, no matter how time and people judge us. There's no time for these numbers right now, and I don't do them, and my colleagues don't. There are historical periods when it is necessary to do what is right. And now the Government is doing what it thinks is right and invites the High Council to join the debate on whether its conclusions and proposals are the best. If we hear anything better, fairer and fairer here, I guarantee you, honourable Member, we will be happy to grab it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u64	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the answers to the parliamentary questions raised at the 18th and 19th meetings of the assembly. Minister of Finance Dr. Franc Križanič will first answer Daniel Krivec's question about gambling. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Your Honor! With regard to the preparation of the strategy for the development of gambling in Slovenia and taking into account the proposals and comments of HIT, d.d., Nova Gorica, I would first like to explain that I appointed a professional board for gambling in a broader and narrower composition, with the task of preparing a strategy for the development of gambling. This expert board consists of experts in gambling, both in salons and casinos and in classical gambling, such as lottery and sports lottery, and other experts in related fields. I must say that the response to world membership and the visit itself was very large and the world has successfully finished its work. At the same time, as experts in this world, the employees of HIT, d.d., Nova Gorica and the Council participated regularly and also made their proposals. The draft strategy for the development of gambling in Slovenia was held in public for 70 days, in spring months, so that comments and opinions could be provided by a wide range of participants from the professional and civil society and that views could be confronted and coordinated to the greatest extent possible. At the beginning of this month, a public tribunal was also organised in Nova Gorica on the subject of the Strategy for the Development of Gambling in Slovenia. Even the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia participated in the tribune with his contribution. The proposal for a strategy for the development of gambling in Slovenia is currently in cross-cutting coordination, comments and proposals from HIT, d. d. and Nova Gorica have been taken into account as much as possible. However, it is a state strategy, not a strategy for this company, so the strategy is broader and has not been fully taken into account. Another issue was the role of my advisor and member of Mr Drag Isajlovich's cabinet in designing a strategy for gambling and gambling and other activities. In designing the strategy of gambling was not included as a member of the Cabinet, this was done by other people with responsibility, in particular with the Directorate of Public Property. Otherwise, he worked as a consultant and coordinator, in particular in the area where the financial system was involved in the recovery or during the period of the collapse of the liquidity of individual undertakings, where coordination was needed in order to maintain as many jobs as possible. After the suspension of the cooperation, his post was occupied by a new employee, Mr Žiga Čebulj, and he also acts in a similar manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Minister Franz Križanič will also answer the question of Milenk Ziherl regarding the establishment of a joint company for the resolution of members of the euro area. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u67	Your Honor! I apologize for missing me. I was at Ecofin at one of the congregations. Once, it was one of the necessary intermediate activities in the management of fiscal policy. Therefore, a few more questions have now come to the fore. The question is what will be the role of Slovenia, how it will work and what we can expect from the Euro area rescue community. On 10 May 2010, a decision was adopted by the Member States of the European Union on the establishment of a mechanism to provide financial assistance to the countries of the euro area, which could then be us, in the form of loans to individual Member States in financial difficulties. It was a situation in which the Greek financial crisis caused the bond crisis, the state bonds of one of the euro area countries, to fall in confidence in the euro area. This decline in confidence could have a spiral effect and a chain effect in the way that the financial market, first in the European Union and then elsewhere in the world, is, however, the most important global economic area, with the largest gross domestic product, in order to easily start to shrink again, as Lehman Brothers began to shrink after the bankruptcy. Greece was a similar case to Lehman Brothers, if they let it go bankrupt, then the credit market would go out again, credit would go down, exports would fall, demand would fall, and a new financial and economic crisis would start. In fact, there would be double V. Take amateur mistakes we who led the European Union's economic policy, both financial ministers and, in particular, prime ministers, of course, have not repeated. In this context, a company has been set up to help the countries of the euro area, which is also said to be Slovenia, if necessary, as a lender at the last level. Other large economic complexes such as the US, Japan, China, we can also say England to a lesser extent, such a lender they have. It's a central bank. The structure of the European Central Bank is not intended for this type of credit, so we had to establish a new institution that would ensure this line and actually ensure that investments in euro area government bonds are safe from the point of view of investors and that euro-area countries are a reliable borrower. Macroeconomically, this is undoubtedly because the euro area's savings are approximately equivalent to the euro area's investments. We have areas where it doesn't happen. For example, there is a lot of imbalance in the US, but there is no imbalance in Europe, so this crisis was essentially unusual for Europe as a whole, and for Greece as a segment, of course, it was still real and painful. And Greece had to adapt to this crisis with very painful measures in the social field, given its human and natural potential, the position, the comparative advantages of tourism and the transport of some areas of the knowledge economy, but it is expected that it will emerge from these problems. At the beginning of May, we set up a aid scheme for Greece, and then a special company called the European Financial Stability Facility, which has the possibility of, or relatively little capital, we are involved with it with 141 000 euros, but the possibility of renting as much as 450 billion euro of credits on the market has reached, according to my information, already or just before reaching the triple A assessment, these loans will be cheap, and will, of course, be able to react wherever some of the euro countries find themselves in such difficulties that they could not reach the relevant sources. In this context, Slovenia is also protected, so that we can ensure stable conditions for our transition to a new level of knowledge society with a higher added value and a higher social standard. When we come out of the crisis, we will be on track, a whole series of measures have been taken to achieve this restructuring. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete your answer, Mr. Ziherl? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u69	Maybe it'll be more of a comment. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answer. From today's perspective, the whole thing looks a little different. Some things have happened that continue our doubts about the relevance of the approach to this matter, but we are now members of this group. One of the advantages of being part of this group is, of course, because for Greece, it can be very soon our turn. The current government has already committed itself or will be in charge of all guarantees there for about 8 billion euros. This is for a more plastic display that people will understand, for 10 tracks of the second track of Divac-Koper, for 518 Falcons or for 90 thousand Audis of A8. The situation in Europe is not so rosy either. This summer optimism, which was, in fact, also due to the fall of the euro against the dollar, which, of course, immediately compensated when the dollar value also fell and the European advantage and this momentum launched by Germany could be severely threatened or already appears to be falling. In addition, I think that the whole region does not show that it would get out of the crisis, it is still quite deep in the crisis. Today it has also been Sweden's view that the whole euro area is in crisis and that it should take care of itself first. However, it is a good example of Slovakia, which has not yet taken part in the matter, and so far there are no signs that it will be punished in any way.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u70	There's no need for an answer. If I understand correctly, Mr Ziherl himself has completed this answer. Minister of Finance Dr. Franz Križanič will also answer the question of mag. Andrej Visiak in connection with the predicted change in property taxation.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u71	Your Honor, thank you very much. The comment can also be considered as a contribution to the public debate, since the law is now in the process of finishing, processing. Mr Visiak and I also had a longer discussion, and we are also in this debate the principles of this law. Your question concerns the concept of property taxation and the increase in tax revenues for economic operators and households, and the appropriate distribution of the financial burden of the population on one hand and the economy on the other, according to the proposal for a real estate tax law put into public debate by the Ministry of Finance on 15 July 2010. First of all, let me explain that the purpose and purpose of the law is to tax all real estates, with the emphasis that this is to ensure the financing of local public services for individual municipalities. It should be further stressed that the draft law is still being amended and coordinated, and it is therefore expected that, on the basis of comments received and proposals received by the municipalities and other stakeholders, including individual Members, groups, parties, experts, it will be further supplemented and amended as necessary. For the time being, the law follows the principle of the broadest possible tax base, as little exemption as possible and the maintenance of a relatively low level of taxation. This is where the spears break, especially at the last. Taxation is likely to be slightly higher to ensure an adequate level of public spending funding at the local community level. This is the case for residential, commercial, industrial properties. In view of the above, consideration is also given to the introduction of a ceiling and a lower limit on taxation, which could be determined by the municipalities themselves. The determination of differentiated rates for certain functions for different types of real estate is also being studied. Here again, if I make an illustration, they break spears on the question of how much harder it is to give the development function of this tax, or take into account certain incentives by reducing tax rates and certain barriers where overpopulation is concerned, with slightly higher rates. This will come at some level as a government proposal to Parliament and you will decide again in the debate how to resolve this dilemma. It is said that the law has a predominantly fiscal public function or also has a more developmental function of directing certain investments and activities. The Ministry of Finance supports any possible solution whereby property taxation would remain relatively low and would not unduly burden taxpayers to pay taxes and thus affect their personal and business decisions relating to real estate. The scope of the tax liability should therefore be set at the level allowing it to be paid without forcing a taxable person to sell or sell the property. It is estimated that the property tax revenues, mainly on the basis of a larger property cover, will be increased not because of a higher rate, but because more properties have been taken into account in this register. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u72	Thank you very much. You want to complete the answer, mag. A viscous? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear Minister, it is true that before you put the law into public debate, I have asked you this question. Now I see the concept of the very law that you have enacted. In fact, I find it very clear that most of the issues are still relevant. I'm asking you first, but you didn't answer: Does what has also been announced in the budget memorandum, that this tax should result in an increase of at least half a percent of the gross domestic product, which is about 150 million euros, 160, as GDP is changing, falling and so on? I want to know exactly: How many new tax inflows do you think will come from this title? That was a question, but I didn't hear the answer. I believe that increasing the revenue from this title during the economic crisis would be an inappropriate measure. The tightening of the tax screw, the additional tax burden on people and the economy during the crisis is not in place. These are axioms elsewhere in Europe and the world, irrespective of the fact that all budgets are in similar difficulties, i.e. the reduction of tax inflows. Next: Do you not think it would be wise to unify these taxes in Slovenia without leaving municipalities so much discretion in determining the factors and thus in different municipalities the taxation of real estates can be very different? Business and industrial facilities are taxed more than five and seven times on value than housing. Isn't this actually some message to entrepreneurship, the economy, especially in this crisis, a miscommunication to entrepreneurship and the economy? Can we expect any changes in the corrected text in view of the ongoing public debate?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u75	Thank you very much. This second part was certainly taken into account in the corrected works. The rate will be substantially more uniform. Derogations are likely to be upwards, once again the question is down or for some developmental purposes. The level of the idea so far will not be significantly higher than the current remuneration, but will be wider and will cover more property. In this way we are actually promising slightly more public financial revenues, about in these dimensions, as Mr Vizjak said.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Please, you have a procedural proposal for mags. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u77	President, I propose a debate in this House on the Minister's response. As much as 150 million, I understand, the more inflows from this tax will be fatally cut into the standard of people, into the standard of the economy. And there has been no mention of agriculture to date, that is, certain taxation of agricultural areas is also foreseen. There's a lot of controversy in the public eye about this. I think that there would also be a parliamentary debate on this in the spirit and in the assistance of not least the Minister in preparing the final text, and not least the confrontation with the coalition opinion on this. I take this opportunity to propose a public debate or to propose a discussion on the Minister's response, because I see that there will be a lot more tax collection from this title. Of course, the minister likes to say that it will be reflected as a municipal income, but it is necessary to know that, on the other hand, the expenditure of the state budget will be reduced in the form of compensatory payments to those municipalities which will already receive the necessary money from this source. So he'll end up profiting in the main state budget. The problem is also this, I've heard that this is going in the direction of some greater unification, so that these coefficients will not be so different between the municipalities, but between 0.03 and 1 integers, I don't know how many. So it can happen that in one congregation there will be a 50-fold lower or 50-fold higher tax than in the other. As a rule, there are higher taxes in those poorer congregations than in those rich ones. For this reason, I believe that this debate would be particularly worth focusing on the appropriateness of these solutions. The third is this relationship to the economy. Economists are very keen to point out that this law, which changes the concept, has so far been taxed on the square of a business facility, but now taxation will go by value, for example in the case of high-tech companies as well as companies with a lot of these equipment and all of this, to create an additional unnecessary burden. And one more thing. I hope that the debate in this House would also show a response to this article of the law or draft, which is indeed unacceptable, that this tax cannot be deducted, even if the social situation and the survival of the taxpayer were at risk. This has been written down to the Minister, and I believe that not to Minister Križanič, because I think he has only more social sense than this provision does.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u78	Thank you very much. On the proposal of Mr Mag. Andrej Visiak, that the National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Finance to his question of the delegation, will decide tomorrow, on Tuesday, 21 September 2010, in the framework of the votes. Dr. Franc Križanič will also answer Rudolf Petan's question regarding the Slovenian financial institutions that bought Greek government bonds. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The Ministry of Finance alone does not have data on the placements in the Greek state bond, so we turned to the supervisors of the Slovenian financial sector for help, namely the Bank of Slovenia, the Insurance Supervisory Agency and the Securities Market Agency. These supervisors are in line with sectoral legislation that obliges supervisors to protect confidential information and cannot disclose it differently than in the form of a summary, and this summary can only be carried out by means of publication of aggregate data. And this aggregated data is said together for individual of these three sectors, I now state, but at the same time you will now see the dimension of, say, the involvement of the Slovenian financial sector in the financing of Greek public debt. It's in the insurance sector. The total investment of insurance, reinsurance and pension companies in Greek government bonds is 31. 12. 2009 was €29.5 million, representing 0.51% of all investment in the insurance sector in Slovenia. Of this, investments in Greek government bonds in insurance companies amounted to EUR 24.9 million and in pension companies to EUR 4.6 million. The reinsurance undertakings did not have these investments. The financial instruments market sector has the following information. Investment funds in the management of companies established in the Republic of Slovenia are said to be investment funds, bought 2.2 million euros between the beginning of January and the end of June 2010, and sold 1.3 million euro bonds to the Republic of Greece. During the same period, operators bought EUR 2.5 million at the expense of mutual pension funds and sold EUR 11.9 million of these bonds, saying that these bonds were largely resolved. On day 30. 6. The total exposure of the investment funds to the bonds of the Republic of Greece amounted to 0,1 % and the exposure of the mutual pension funds to 0.2 % of their portfolio, which is even less than for insurance undertakings; about one fifth of the exposure to insurance companies. Bank sector. According to the latest available data, Banka Slovenije is more currant here, so it is also published within the annual data; 31. 5. 2010 amounts to the total exposure of Slovenian banks to the Republic of Greece EUR 59.4 million, five banks and exposure represents a negligible share in the entire Slovenian banks' credit portfolio. If you ask yourself why. They are relatively high interest rates and expectations of getting paid back and at the same time earning interest rates.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete your answer, Mr. Petan? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u81	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister! Look, I'm happy with this information, thank you! The whole exhibit was about EUR 118 million, if I add this together, it doesn't work out, something is missing. So the data is not complete, and these people who gave you this have silenced some 20 million euros. But that's another story now. I don't think that this old flossule, that we have to protect the data, for those companies that are owned directly or indirectly by the state, applies because it's taxpayers' money. I'm sorry, that's just the way it is. And, Mr Minister, I think that you too can simply say this to your supervisors so that we will not be surprised when we are six months from now or one year before the fact that we will have to cover our losses. That's not how they do it. Something stabbed me. The banking sector, 60 million, 5 banks, of which two are still state-owned or majority state-owned. I think you could get information from these two, but from the other three it's a question of whether they're private. But there's some other information: pension companies. What kind of pension companies are these? We say we have a terrible deficit in this pension work, in the financing of pensions. Some pension companies, well, a little less than €5 million, but that's money, too, it's some money. And I'd like to know: What pension company? And I think we can get that information because it speaks aggregately, I can say. Either it's one that's owned by the majority state, or maybe we have one that's not owned by the majority state, but I don't know it. She may be, but I don't know her. It is said that a pension company paid EUR 5 million and speculated on the Greek financial market. And I'd really like that information. And also: Where did those missing almost 20 million euros go? Because after the sum, 20 million euro is running out fast. What kind of institutions were they here? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u83	I propose that we complete the answer in a way that will unify everything to 31. 12. 2009 Then we will probably get those 120s, because, of course, they later began to withdraw from this market. From here also this relatively low number for banks at 31. 5. As far as pension companies and mutual funds are concerned. We have a second and third pension pillar, which has been living in Slovenia for about 10 years intensively. It's an extra pension savings. Here the funds operate in accordance with the rules of the widest possible dispersion and thus secure investment. They're investing all over the world. In this context, investments in Greek bonds were also partly made and, as we have seen at least in mutual funds, they withdrew very quickly when the matter came into crisis. Apparently, they had this possibility that the market for this part was open at the time. However, the key to this business is such a dispersion that the investment is safe in any case. It falls somewhere, but in China it increases, and then the sum means a safe growing investment. We will probably have to hold either a closed session or a meeting of the Committee on Finance in order to process specific entities. This needs to be examined through Parliament's Legislative and Legal Service and then demanded the individual supervisor, which, of course, will be us on your behalf, if we have only the legal possibility of showing such data.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Minister of Finance Dr. Franz Križanič and Foreign Minister Samuel Žbogar will answer the question of Jožef Jerovška regarding the resolution of successful issues. Who's gonna start? I'm warning you both have five minutes together. Please, Minister Dr. Križanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The question was how it is with the latest, the term "hazards" of the Republic of Croatia regarding the resolution of the successful issues associated with the recovery of the so-called debt of Croatian NLB savers. First of all, we would like to point out that the latest developments concerning Croatian foreign exchange depositors, both members of the National Assembly and the Slovenian public, should not be understood as a threat to the Republic of Croatia regarding the resolution of successful issues. But these are the reasons. The statements of the Governor of the Croatian National Bank, which appear in the media in recent months, bring nothing significant new to Croatia's position until the entry of NLB, according to Nova Ljubljanska banka d. d. into the Croatian market. Such statements in Croatian and Slovenian media and the actual restriction on the entry of NLB or its owners into the Croatian financial market, and not only the threat, have been emerging for many years. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia also pointed out this fact to the European Commission, as Croatia must provide conditions for the free movement of capital on its way to the European Union. The resolution of hereditary issues is in no way understood by the Republic of Slovenia as a threat. Since its independence, the Republic of Slovenia has been working to resolve open issues with other successors of the former SFRJ, and a number of these open issues have also been resolved. An important success has been achieved by the successors by signing and ratifying an agreement on succession issues. This is the so-called Vienna Agreement, I think it was ratified in 2004. This provides a basis for further addressing the remaining open issues. Slovenia has presented good arguments and constructively in the discussions so far, but this attitude must also be shown by the other successors. One such open issue that needs to be resolved under this agreement by further negotiations under the auspices of the Bank for International Settlements in Basel is also the guarantee of the former SFRJ for foreign exchange nutritional roles of citizens. These include the roles placed on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Any other option to resolve this hereditary issue is not envisaged in the Vienna Agreement. An important innovation, which can be seen in recent statements by Governor Rohatinski, is the possibility that Croatia would agree to continue these negotiations in Basel, which we warmly welcome in the Republic of Slovenia. For once, we only have the Governor's statements that this option will be proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Both the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia agreed in Bohinj at the end of July to find solutions to this issue within three months. Finally, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has taken the view that, at the opening of Chapter 4 - Free movement of capital, Croatia's negotiations for entry into the European Union, the Republic of Slovenia should forward a unilateral statement on the protection of the interests of the Republic of Slovenia, in which we expressed the expectation that the Commission will also take into account the issue of discriminatory treatment of all legal entities from the European Union who wish to enter or are present on the Croatian market. In this statement, Slovenia also expressed its expectation that negotiations on the acquisition of the foreign exchange deposit guarantee will continue without undue delay under the successor agreement of the former SFRJ, so that concrete results will be achieved before the provisional closure of Chapter Four. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is implementing its mandate, which was approved in the National Assembly. This is how it seeks to realize the interests of the Republic of Slovenia and to resolve the open issues of succession, which, in our view, will have a positive regional impact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Minister Zbogar, anything else you want to add? You have 55 seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u87	I would reply only to the statement made by Mr Jerovska that Article 9 of the Arbitration Agreement prevents Slovenia from opening questions in Croatia's negotiations with the European Union. Article 9 of the Arbitration Agreement speaks only of the border dispute and with this Article Slovenia has only committed itself not to open up border issues in Croatian negotiations. This Slovenia does not prevent it from opening, problematic, asking questions about other open issues. And that's exactly what he does at Chapter Four — Free movement of capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Foreign Minister Samuel Žbogar will answer Milenko Ziherl's question regarding the establishment of the European External Action Service. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr Zicherl had already raised the question of how the external European service is being formed, and he might briefly present the conclusions that were linked to this. On 21 June, the High Representative obtained the consent of Parliament, the Commission and the Council to establish this service, as proposed in the decision. The service will consist of a service, offices in Brussels, somehow an external ministry in Brussels, and embassies around the world. In Brussels, the service will be managed by the High Representative, who will have the Secretary-General for the Coordination of the Service, with two Deputys, and under him will be geographical and thematic Directors-General. In this way, the service will be divided into geographical and thematic Directorates to be managed by the Directors-General. An invitation to tender shall be issued for all these places. The invitation to tender shall be published and may be made available to interested parties from both European Commission and Member States. When appointing ambassadors, or when appointing ambassadors not only, but also staff at the embassy, an agreement was reached that one third of these posts should belong to the Member States by 2013. These cities are supposed to be gradually occupied. The diplomats who come from the national services will come to the external service temporarily, for a period of four years, with the possibility of an extension of four years or a maximum of 10 years, then return to the national service. We have worked together with ten other countries, or have given great emphasis to geographical representation, the geographical representation of smaller, newer countries in this service, given the absence of jobs, especially those dealing with foreign policy in Brussels. Thus, it was also stated in the conclusion that appropriate geographical as well as sexual structural conditions would be taken into account. This is how we expect the decisions of the High Representative to follow. In these discussions, this group of ten also insisted that embassies be made available to the citizens of the Member States, it is said that they will also deal with consular assistance, particularly with the necessary consular assistance, if necessary. In the end, this was also achieved, and the job will also deal with it. As regards the invitations to tender, the President of the Government has already explained in detail. I'd just add to the fact that it was the first call. I also expressed my disappointment over the result. Unlike the public impression, we have not only run for cities in the Balkans, we have also run for other cities. Of course, it is so that our candidates are the most qualified or the longest to come to two places in the Balkans. In fact, they came to the finals in only two places in the Balkans, not in other places. We must be aware of the limitations we have in Slovenian diplomacy. We don't know, we don't have people who know Arabic, and people who know other languages, like Chinese, Japanese, or similar languages, and of course we're not in the advantage. This is a limited area where our diplomats can compete, and it is also limited to where we have a particular interest. As the Prime Minister of the Government has said, let us run people to places where, of course, the interest of the European Union is, as well as where Slovenian interest is, not just to all the places that are listed. After talking to the High Representative, I can say that we have assured ourselves that in the coming rounds we will have Slovenian representatives in the ambassadorial places and also in the lower places. We also run for seats in Brussels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Minister Samuel Žbogar will also answer the question you have additionally I was surprised because I did not see your hand. [[...]] Please, Mr. Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. At that time, of course, some water had passed, and what has happened today was what the Prime Minister and Minister have already been talking about. At that time, of course, I asked the question, in part also as an incentive, that we would really be well prepared for someone from Slovenia to come to this external diplomatic service of the European Union. It does not necessarily belong to the Balkans. I can see here that it's still an open place for Brazil. Brazil is taking advantage of every opportunity to increase its economic and all other contacts with Slovenia. However, Slovenia is making a stepmother, a farmer's bride and rather is putting pressure on other very risky markets where, in fact, the country is under special attention from the international public due to the dictatorial system. There are, of course, other auxiliary services and, of course, the sweetest and the most representative for a given country were those published in the first round of Ashton. As far as I can see, by 1 January 2011, I am also expected to complete all auxiliary staff. The main opportunity is missed so that no second smaller opportunity will be used so poorly. The newspapers also say that we lobby wildly at Ashton's, but that didn't help much because some countries were very successful. Spain has managed to place five of them, including on our account, Ireland and France three and some other countries [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Two more places. And if I say very much to the farmer, "the horse with the broken leg is very difficult to sell." Maybe it wasn't the best offer. Through our eyes, yes, but not through Europe. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u92	Thank you very much. If I understand correctly, there was no requirement to complete the answer. Is there anything else you'd like to comment on? Although there's no need for a request. Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u93	I would like to, because some of the claims were not correct and they also require clarification. Look, in Brazil it's like this, for the first time, it's basic language knowledge, it's essential if a diplomat's already been working there. And I'm sure we're not in the lead here. Then there is that the candidate must also have an interest in applying. Of course, we have people in the ministry who know a lot of things, they are very good, but they do not necessarily have an interest in applying for these European cities. A lot of things have to be combined to be successful in the end. Second. It's not true that we missed our first chance. It was currently only 29 ambassadorial cities. All the high-ranking cities are still open in Brussels, according to department heads, heads of directors, and lower-graduate posts are also open. There are 80 lower diplomats because I know that there is a great interest among our young people in applying. There will be a second round of ambassadorial cities in January. So I think there are still great opportunities where we can run and also be successful. But in the Spanish, that's all I'd say is, yeah, they got five seats, and I've been giving it a hard time, too. And the answer was that they were chairing, they made a lot of progress during the presidency, so they wanted to use these people. The question is that it is a pity that we did not try to join the European Union system after the presidency of these people who proved themselves during our presidency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Minister Samuel Žbogar will also answer Mira Petk's question regarding employment at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u95	Thank you very much. As I understand the question, the issue raised was related to the contracts that the foreign ministry has with its external counterparts. Two of them were exposed in particular. The questions were for 2009 and the first half of 2010. In 2009, we had 24 such contracts in force with various external contractors and advisers. Most of them have also expired in the past year. In 2010, 8 new contracts were concluded and the fifth came to an end, two will expire by the end of this year, one remaining in force by 2011. In four categories, we could somehow divide these contracts. First of all, the treaties we have with lawyers, particularly lawyers in the field of international law, who are and advise us, help us in various tasks relating to international law. In 2009, some 65,000 euros were paid out on this item or from these contracts and 11 000 euros in the first half of 2010. The other is administrative work at our embassies. At some embassies, we have employed Slovenian citizens on a contract that they perform administrative business for us. In 2009, €33,000 was paid and €48 000 was paid in the first half of 2010. It's all gross data. Then it's a third category, it's professional assistance that we don't have at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and we use it through contracts. In particular, we have a contract with the company on public procurement and 94,000 were paid in 2009 and 23,000 euros in the first half of 2010. And then it's category four, and that's helping ex-embassies. That's what you asked. This is Ambassador Toš and Ambassador Dragan. In 2009, they received a total of 30,000 and 24 000 euros gross in the first half of 2010. If I continue to answer your question, which essentially concerns only why we use external aid with one hundred and fifty-five authorised ministers. For the first time, I would say that we no longer have any contract with either of them; both contracts have expired and we have not renewed them. Secondly, we have engaged both ambassadors in setting up two new projects in the foreign ministry. One is a project of a diplomatic supervisor, a diplomatic inspector, as we told him. This is a project that Ambassador Toš set up years ago when he was still working alone at the foreign ministry. This inspectorate, or work, has died in recent years and we wanted to revive this in particular in view of the great need we felt in controlling our DKP network. So we asked him that, given that he had set up a similar project years ago, he started, somehow put the rules of action back on his feet and also carried out the first inspection or I think he did two inspections. Then we handed over this function to Ambassador Vrhunc, who was available at the foreign ministry and is also doing it successfully now. We hired Ambassador Dragan to help establish economic diplomacy, a project of economic diplomacy. This was an important new priority in the foreign ministry, given that Ambassador Dragan had great experience as an ambassador, and also in the economic field, with the help of the economy, we engaged him as an aid, as a guidance for the establishment of this project, which we considered important to establish, as is right, and we cannot afford some mistakes or some time lost. He was therefore also engaged, including the first half of this year. At this point, this priority also works well, we have people, we have strengthened this Directorate with diplomats coming back from abroad this summer, so we don't have a contract with it anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete your answer, Mr. Friday? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Minister, thank you for your correct and concrete answer with numbers, but this answer also comes from some way that Slovenian diplomacy is in crisis. Not only do we need to hire former Yugoslav diplomats who have experience in some other situations, especially in the area of non-graduation, despite the extensive composition of staff at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Obviously, the selection of diplomats we have in Slovenia is also not the best. This has also shown the fact that, among the twenty-nine appointed ambassadors of the European Union, Slovenia has not received one, unlike Bulgaria or Lithuania, that we are not even talking about Poland. I think this is a mistrust of all Slovenian diplomacy and also of the Slovenian government. For example, Mitja Drobnic, who was a candidate for one of the European embassies, had a well-known Washington dispatch affair and this affair is certainly not unknown to European diplomatic circles. I think we should think about this and ask ourselves where it leads and how Slovenian foreign policy is running. In this context, it might also be worth mentioning the visit of Prime Minister Borut Pahor to Mr Dodik in the Republic of Serbia. Mr Dodik links a large part of the European political public to organised crime. And Mr President of the Government visited Dodika informally on a private visit. On the other hand, for example, Mrs Ashton announces the possibility of prohibiting Dodik from joining the European Union. And of course, Europe sees this practice of Slovenian diplomacy with its eyes, so it is not surprising that we are in such a situation. That's why I'm asking you: Where does Slovenian foreign policy go? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u99	I read the question on your website. It's going in the right direction, I'd say, in a very good direction, Slovenian diplomacy is going. It goes to priorities that have also sometimes been neglected. I think economic diplomacy is something we can be proud of. One year ago it was my first consultation, this year we had the second meeting of Slovenian ambassadors. And I can say, I can say that there is a great difference in the perception of this priority between the Slovenian ambassadors between last year and this year. I think it's a great success for us. Where is Slovenian diplomacy going? I think Slovenian diplomacy is going more engaged, more active in the Western Balkans. Of course, there's been a lot going on for the last 20 years. We first moved away from the Western Balkans, we didn't want anything, we're back now. But now we're coming back very actively. And I think it's being noticed. Our opinion is appreciated in the European Union. Today I have re-signed on our initiative a third letter with the Italian Foreign Minister, my colleague in the European Union, where we talked about the Western Balkans, what we have to do by the end of the year and what we want. Here I think we have a story that will sooner or later, I hope, as soon as possible, to show that we will get our people in the institutions of the European Union working in the Balkans or in other international organisations. In the past, we have not encouraged, if I say so, the placement of our diplomats in any international institution. Why would they reject the knowledge of former former ambassadors, Slovenian ambassadors, of why they should be appointed Yugoslav ambassadors, and when Slovenian ambassadors and even during Yugoslavia represented Slovenian interests, they represented Slovenia. But if you want to make someone black, you give him that sticker, and you don't have to explain anything anymore. These are Slovenian ambassadors who had certain knowledge we needed in the foreign ministry, so they help us put things in the right direction. That's what we did. I hope that we will continue to work with them, not contractually, but occasionally with advice. We are always happy with their advice and all the former Slovenian ambassadors and diplomats. Nor would I take the appointment of Mrs Ashton as a mistrust of Slovenian diplomacy. Then a lot of countries in the European Union should think about it, including nine new countries of the 12 who have not received their representatives, but in fact the rest are not concerned, because it is essentially thirty appointments from many who are still coming. And everyone's counting on them to win in the next round. And we also have Mrs Ashton's assurance that in the coming rounds we will surely also get our candidates to the positions in the external service of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mr Henrik Gjerkš will answer the question of Zvonka Lah regarding the review of the feasibility of EU projects without a portfolio responsible for local self-government and regional development.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u101	Thank you for your word. Mr Zvonko Lah, honourable Member, asked whether the Office of the Government for Local Self-Government and Regional Development had an overview of the feasibility of European projects to draw on European funds for the period 2009 to 2013. The Office of the Government for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy, which I run, is responsible for the implementation of cohesion policy, which means that we must ensure the effectiveness and regularity of the implementation of operational programmes in the planning and spending processes. The SVR shall monitor the implementation of projects co-financed by the Cohesion Fund and the Structural Funds through the ISAR information system through monthly content reports, through regular meetings between the managing authority and the various ministries in the role of intermediate bodies, and not least through annual reports. We also regularly inform the Government of the Republic of Slovenia about the implementation of projects and the use of funds, and in accordance with the decision of the Committee on Local Self-Government of the National Assembly. Operational programmes were planned at a different time than implemented. That is why we have also taken the lead in optimising mainly in terms of implementing and amending operational programmes, which are the basis for drawing on European funds. I am talking in particular about an operational programme to strengthen regional development potentials and an operational programme for the development of environmental and transport infrastructure. The SVR, as the managing authority, shall be responsible for the planning and use of resources to ensure the effectiveness of the implementation of operational programmes. That is why we also ordered a feasibility analysis, which will be completed at the end of September. The feasibility report will be submitted in October 2010 to complement the amendments to the European Commission's operational programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete your answer, Mr. Lah? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Hello, Minister and Madam Minister! Thank you for your word. The last sentence you said was requested by the Committee on Local Self-Government and also by the Committee on Environment and Space some year ago, and we expected an answer. Where are these projects or at what stage of feasibility? Once we got the feasibility of waste management projects on the board at the table, some of the projects within the operational programmes were still in the investment documentation phase, rather than in the space frame. We know that many municipalities have not yet adopted the UNJO and probably for what European projects. That's why we were expecting a feasibility report. As you said, this will be done by the end of September, and we expect it to be on the table. It is commendable that you will also change the operational programme accordingly, because it would be a shame, for some projects there is not enough money, but some projects that have their own resources may not be implemented and will not be drawn up at this time of these European funds, so we welcome this. However, I would expect you to be, as a service of the Government of Local Self-Government, a link and more connected to municipalities and individual departments of the field, and it is likely for everyone to learn that these projects are more coherent, that you also encourage projects to be carried out, which is a problem in projects between several municipalities, five, six municipalities, with regard to coordination and feasibility. I would expect more cooperation with your work here.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u104	Is there anything else you'd like to add? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u105	The debate on the Committee on Local Self-Government was also one of the reasons and our concern for maximum drawing as far as possible optimal content, since we are approaching the second half of the implementation of the financial perspective 2007-2013, that we have commissioned this feasibility study. The fact is that these operational programmes, which were set up four years ago, were not even able to take into account some of the circumstances that are now being seen mainly in larger projects. These larger projects do not have time to wait for 2012 and 2013 precisely because of these threats that occur when they are placed in the premises at the time of purchase of land and so on. Of course, the threats you mentioned are also dangerous in terms of negotiating local communities on a potential route for larger regional projects. This is where responsibility is shared. The reason that any of the projects may no longer be on that priority list may also be that there is no agreement on, for example, a pipeline, sewerage route or any other major environmental project in an area. It is our responsibility, however, to ensure all the other conditions, to verify feasibility and to ensure that all projects, especially those larger ones, start properly early, so that we can ensure that they come to Slovenia in accordance with principle n +2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u106	Thank you very much. We are moving on to questions of Members and Members. Daniel Krivec will ask the Minister of the Magnificent Economy a question. Darji Radic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u107	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, fellow ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I believed that it would not be necessary to ask this question again, but it seems that it is only necessary. For refreshment. The Ministry of Education's internal act, adopted by the Minister and also regulated the field of winter school holidays, was amended a long time ago. This new regulation provides that all winter holidays are concentrated in one week and not as has been the practice so far and that is the majority practice in countries across Europe where the deadlines are spread across regions and across different areas. This will actually burden the tourist offer over capacity. In some ways, it will also cause problems, it will likely also lead to higher prices for tourist products, it will result in the departure of a certain number of our users abroad and probably also a certain decline in the proportion of children who will be deprived of an active winter vacation. Some estimates suggest that this measure will lead to a drop of approximately €10 million for winter sports centres. Other services in these destinations are also not included here. Therefore, we can rightly estimate that this winter school holiday merger will have a negative impact on our economy. That is why I also ask the distinguished Minister, because I know that in the field of the tourism economy, she is very much looking, at home, and also manages this area: Is there an analysis of the economic and environmental consequences of the amended school calendar regulation, as well as of this one-week combination of school holidays? What effect will this rule have? Did you do anything to remove the change of the rule of law, even as I expected when we asked this question in the National Assembly ahead of summer? I can also say that Minister Igor Lukšič replied to my previous question in July that the Ministry did not make any analysis of economic damage, I am talking about the Ministry of Education, as it does not work in any case when dealing with school policy. That was a very interesting answer. That's why I'm asking this question: Does a sector such as the economy make an assessment when a sector such as education adopts a measure that certainly entails a burden on our economy and also a deterioration in a particular industry, specifically in this case in the field of tourism? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u108	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u109	Thank you so much for asking. This question has already been raised. I must say that at the Ministry of the Economy we have been monitoring this area and the intention of the Minister of Education and Sport from the beginning to amend the internal rules governing winter holidays and bring them together in one time at the beginning of the winter season. We have not done specific analyses of the impact on the tourism economy, but we have obtained analyses from the main associations in the field of tourism and, above all, the association of mountain centres, the Slovenian Tourist Organisation and, of course, all the tourist municipalities that live mainly from winter tourism. The assessment of all is uniform that the combination of winter holidays within one week will certainly have negative consequences on tourism itself. More than just that our guests will now, because the capacity will be filled in Slovenia in just one week, go abroad, we are concerned about security, security and, above all, the congestion in Slovenian ski resorts, because we expect that during this week when Slovenian holidays, the capacity will be fully occupied. The fact is that, as a representative of the tourism economy with Minister Luksic, we have repeatedly discussed this subject, and we have also referred to him, Minister Matej Lahovnik, in writing earlier, to ask him to consider this measure, however, on the merits of this measure, but according to his competence, the Minister of Education has decided that he will insist on one-week holidays on the arguments he has on his side. Of course, we cannot now interfere with the area of competence of the Ministry of Education and Sport, we have reacted, but we can certainly continue to react only in this direction in order to discuss with the tourism economy and see what we can actually do to make this transition from two weeks to one week's rest as little as possible. That's all we can do. However, since you have asked a broader question, it is a fact that since I am Minister of Economy, we have regularly monitored all the regulations, including internal regulations and all the materials coming into the government procedure in terms of the impact of these rules on the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. We have managed to change a number of regulations in this way or at least reduce the planned burden. This will be our mission in the future. But you need to understand that we are likely to be in a situation where other interests prevail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u110	Thank you. Do you have a follow-up question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u111	I hardly agree with you, Madam Minister, because I think that the internal act of the Ministry can be changed. This is not a law that goes through a certain procedure. If the Government finds that some act is causing serious damage to the economy, it would also be expected to do so. Also in view of the answers that the President has put to certain questions today because he said he was committed to strengthening the economy, having better conditions and so on. In this case, however, we are going in the opposite direction and are limiting our tourism economy for some reasons which the Minister could not explain or analysed. And you also said at the hearing in some way that you reacted when the Ministry announced that this regulation had been adopted. Also at the previous meeting, when I asked the Minister about the debate and where this rule was published, the answer was that he had been hanging for 45 days on certain websites, but we found that he was nowhere. And you admit that you actually only saw him when he was adopted. It is said that neither the tourism economy nor the Ministry of Economy had the opportunity to suggest to the Minister that it was making a major mistake. His answer was also very, I would say, cynical and he is, I quote now his answer, which says that it is necessary to learn to adapt to change, "but it is certain that cablewayers will also have to adapt and all other economic operators have enough time..." and so on. I do not think that this is the right direction and that we are very damaging to the economic part of this area and I do not know whether these arguments are that someone has been employed in Maribor, but someone in Ljubljana, those important reasons, because of several cases in Slovenia, which required that the regulation be changed so rigorously and make worse both for the majority of the population, most parents and in some way also for the providers of these services. These arguments do not stand.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u112	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u113	Thank you very much. In this case, I think it would be better if we addressed the question to the competent minister. I've told you what we've done, what we can do, we can't influence the decisions of another minister, even if it's internal acts. However, I said that with the tourism economy we will see what can be done now. It should be stressed, however, that winter vacations do not require making such an elephant because, after one week, the tourist economy will not fail. It will be necessary to adjust if this is the case. However, the fact is that these assessments have also been made in such a way. Then we will also be able to determine this year whether the damage is actually such. Once again, I stress that the right address for this question is certainly the Minister for Sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u114	Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u115	I have a procedural proposal. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I will request that the debate on the Minister's response be held, because there were no substantial arguments that the rule cannot be changed and that the hearing was the position of the Minister, I will quote, "when the information came to us that he accepted it, we immediately wrote not only a letter, but a protest letter to Minister Luksic, because it is unacceptable to us." So, the moment we talked at the hearing, it was unacceptable for you, and now we're talking about this being evaluated when the damage is done. I don't think this approach in this government is good. I think that this can be resolved if good will is done by the Government and the Ministry of Economy, and with appropriate commitment, we can resolve this matter. He wrote the same in his reply, too, now the former Minister, Dr. Matej Lahovnik, where he made it clear that these negative consequences were already obvious and that this Regulation should be corrected. Also, practice everywhere in Europe speaks in the opposite direction, where they do not combine these holidays. And our example, when we separated vacations, was based on practices abroad, where vacations also take place in different regions. The fact that the reasons at the Ministry of Education are so great that this is a good solution do not hold up, and the Ministry's delegation that the Ministry of Education never does any analysis of economic damage when making some decisions is unacceptable to me as a Member. This would mean that any department within the Government can do as it pleases it, which I think even for most of you other Members who listen to this will not last. And I think the government needs to be aware that the departments are connected, that in certain decisions they still have to look at each other. You yourself have mentioned that this is also a security aspect, and this aspect of safety, both on the road at a certain point in time when the density of traffic will increase due to such a modified decision, as well as for safety on the ski slopes, where the density will also increase at a certain point in time, or the visit will increase. I think that these are all the reasons why we need to discuss this and, if necessary, we will also ask the Minister of Transport at the next meeting, and he is also involved in these amendments to the Rules, because in the winter season last year he was very happy to wander through the ski slopes and announce the need for greater safety on the ski slope. And this rule of thumb breaks this concept. I therefore propose, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that this be discussed.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u116	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Daniel Krivec to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Economy to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, on Tuesday, 21 September 2010, in the framework of the votes. Now, Mr Miran Györek will ask the Minister of Culture a question, but she is not. Will you still ask the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. This year it is 91 years since the Prekmurje gathering in Beltinci called for the merger of Prekmurje with the mother of Slovenia, since we have lived outside Slovenian territory for over 900 years. The association of Prekmurcs with the native nation is celebrated as a state holiday only since 2006. By 2009, there were four national celebrations, twice in Beltinci, Castle in Goričke and Murska Sobota. This year, however, the local community in Črenšovci, the municipality of Črenšovci, had to organise the ceremony itself, marking it as an important historical event for the Prekmurje Slovenes, which was completely independent, voluntarily and without a single euro of costs at the expense of the state. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia decided, at its 63rd meeting on 14 January, to delete the national celebration at this holiday or to prepare it only on the occasion of the round anniversary. This unreasonable decision has triggered considerable blood and dissatisfaction among Prekmurci. The Government's decision is justified by some sort of austerity measures, which by the way reminds us of the savings in coffees, cut flowers and the like. The costs of such a celebration could easily be reduced, yet it would be honorable to mark this bright event of Slovenian history. The merger and acquisition of Prekmurje for the Slovenian nation represents one of the rare points of light, because we have mostly lost Slovenians in history. And unfortunately, as it turns out, we're still losing. We have never really understood the importance of gaining Prekmurje and, last but not least, of Primorska, who is also the victim of such a senseless decision by our government to save money. The only satisfaction of this year's celebration was the visit of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Danil Türk, and the President of the Government of Borut Pahor, who in some ways showed respect for this event, and that they also overcome so much national and political sense, which unfortunately is not to be observed in some ministries. I therefore ask the Minister of Culture: Why did the Ministry decide to cancel this particular celebration? Why such saving on the Prekmurcs? Prekmurje is always somewhere on the edge. For centuries he was a Hungarian slave, then a Yugoslav slave, and now a Slovenian slave. And allow me another thought by Dr. Anton Trstenjak from the book Thinking of Slovenian Man, his character traveler, "... a complete political and cultural separation from other Slovenians and dependence on Hungarians has given birth to a consciousness of national loneliness, which has not even been known by name until recently. The soul of the Premurese Slovenes could have..." [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u118	Thank you, Mr. Györek. However, you have not yet said whether you want a written answer or an oral one. So you want an oral response to the next meeting. Thank you. Mr Miran Potrč will now ask the Minister of Environment and Space, Mr Jarnić. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Minister, Members of Parliament and Members of the Social Democrats, we have been committed to eliminating discrimination against tenants in denationalised homes and housewives since 1991. To this end, we have even tabled in 2007 a novelty of the housing law concerning housewives, and we have also tabled amendments to all the amendments and amendments to the housing law proposed by the Government to date to regulate the situation of tenants in these apartments. In view of the illegal conduct and violation of the rights of tenants in denationalised apartments, today there are not only a few Members and Members but also NGOs [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] who has found that there is a violation of the right to housing and proposes to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to require measures from Slovenia. Following this decision, Mr Minister, on 16 March, I asked you in writing to do everything possible with regard to the amendments and additions to the law, and I also attached two laws, one relating to housewives and the other to tenants in denationalised apartments. In your response, you promised, in principle, a rescue. For once, I didn't see anything concrete. Given that Slovenia, as a party to the European Social Charter, is obliged to respect the provisions of the European Social Charter and to comply with the decisions of the European Committee on Social Rights, Mr Minister, I ask you: Has the Ministry of the Environment and Space already prepared any measures to change the situation of tenants in denationalized apartments and housewives? And if it's not: When will these suggestions be submitted to the National Assembly? I'm aware of the many tasks the Ministry has to perform. I am also aware of the limited financial possibilities of the country, so I do not expect solutions to be possible for all overnight tenants. I cannot understand, however, that in all these years no solution has been found to gradually correct the injustices committed by the state of housing law to these citizens. I expect answers and solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u120	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u121	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable Mr Potsch! It is true that I had already promised that we would do something in this area. Since then, activities have been carried out in three directions. First of all, the preparation of an addition to the rules on the allocation of non-profit dwellings for rent in order to facilitate the possibility of obtaining a non-profit rental apartment for tenants who otherwise reside in so-called denationalised rental apartments, while their rental relationship is hampered by possible attempts to end the relationship. Therefore, consideration is given to supplementing the rules on the allocation of non-profit apartments for rent. In this way, the renter of denationalised dwellings wishing to empty the apartment they live in and continue the renting relationship of a municipality-owned apartment, public housing fund or non-profit housing organisation would further increase the number of points in assessing their social situation, allowing them to rank higher on the priority scale, thus allowing them to obtain an adequate non-profit rental apartment more quickly. The corresponding number of points would also be assigned to them if they were to empty a larger apartment than they normally own, since these tenants are now usually in larger apartments. The second measure is an extension of the time limit for the exercise of the right under Article 173 of the Housing Law. A possible measure is also to extend or reopen the deadline for the exercise of rights under Article 173 of the existing Housing Act, with a view to providing higher financial incentives to tenants willing to empty a denationalised apartment by 30%. We estimate that there are still one thousand and six-fifty tenants who could exercise their right under this Article. Let us note, however, that in this case, there would be an unequal situation with previous tenants who have already resolved their housing issue with lower incentives from the State and would probably also be the question of replacing this difference. The third possible or parallel route is the payment of market compensation. The proposal to pay market compensation to renters in denationalised apartments is supported by the Association of Renters of Slovenia. It is worth saying that this would have resulted in the relatively large financial consequences that would have resulted from the payment of market compensation to tenants who have not yet resolved the housing issue and to tenants who have so far resolved the housing issue under Article 173. This involves payment of market compensation to all tenants staying or staying in denationalised apartments, as well as to previous holders of housing rights. In this case, the amount of their income shall not be checked, as in the case of fairness to the subsidy in payment of a non-profit or market rent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u122	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Your answer first convinces me that there is a problem and that it should be approached to solve it, because it is precisely our conclusion and the conclusion of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe that it is a violation of rights for these persons, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm glad you're thinking about solutions. You ordered three possible solutions. As a complement to your response, I would like you to say: When will the Ministry decide between these three, because of me it can also make a third a and b variant, and when will it make appropriate proposals? For we know, and every time we ask this question, we get a relatively friendly answer that the Government is aware of the problems and is looking for solutions. So far, no solution has been found to cover all beneficiaries. Here and there were solutions. So I ask you to say: By what time and by which of these three or some other fourth methods will you deal with the problem? I don't expect you to promise that the problem will be solved within one month for everyone who is now being wronged. But I think it would be a time to find solutions. I ask for a concrete answer because I think that the time has been enough and we simply cannot believe that the solution to this problem can be delayed from month to month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u124	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u125	Thank you very much. This could logically follow and will be because we have 3 seen scenarios to prepare for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia a proposal to discuss and choose an appropriate model, because it is precisely because of financial matters that I think this is outside our ministry, because it is a matter of greater financial obligations and then we would need from the Government some decisions, referrals or insightful conclusions.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u126	Thank you. Mr Miro Petek will ask Mrs Katarina Kresal, Minister for the Interior, and Mr Aleš Zalar, Minister for Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u127	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished ministers! Money laundering is generally linked to organised crime, namely drug trafficking, arms trafficking and also business fraud. Even Slovenia is not immune to these phenomena. We had people who were bold enough and also had some political support to buy businesses with illegal moves with the help of state banks, I emphasise, state banks, money laundering and then money laundering, so-called clean money, and even the awards of the Chamber of Commerce and other social recognitions. In Koroška, entrepreneurs who were suspected of money laundering were not even trying to hide money or this dirty money and crime because they knew that they had complete immunity and that law enforcement would not come to their fingertips. Money laundering, of course, has other negative consequences, from corruption, violence, terrorism, if not terrorism and so on. In Slovenia we have today, according to my assessment, and also according to the assessment of many other relevant legislation, and also at international level there is a series of conventions and directives that dictate integration and interaction in this area. But the question is, are we doing enough? The question is also whether we have sufficient control mechanisms and quality personnel in Slovenia to prosecute these crimes. I ask the Minister of the Interior: How many cases of money laundering have the police dealt with in recent years? What are the trends? And questions for Minister Zalar: How many convictions or judgments were there during this period? How many other cases are still pending? Perhaps another question for both of you: What is the assessment of the extent of money laundering in the Republic of Slovenia? There are models with which this can be calculated, and I wonder if there is this assessment for Slovenia as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u128	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Mr President. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! Yes, it is. I agree with you. Money laundering is increasingly a problem in modern societies. Slovenia can't avoid that either. Just because this crime is one of the most difficult to investigate and prosecute, we have also set up a National Investigation Office, one of its activities is also to identify more complex crimes, detection, which certainly includes money laundering. The main purpose is, of course, to obtain an unlawful asset benefit for an individual or for a group. But the basic characteristic is, of course, that there has to be a cover-up, so it's a cover-up of some kind, in nicknames, dirty money, which means that it has to be dirty through some other crimes. So it is a very complex crime, which needs also the first phase – proof that there were crimes that caused this money, which was subsequently washed away. Of course, the police are also dealing with these areas, noting that the number of these crimes has been increasing in recent years. During the last five years, the police have thus filed 33 criminal charges against the competent state prosecutor for the suspected service of 65 offences of money laundering. At this stage of the procedure, more than 42 million so-called laundered money were found. So just for a lot of money. Last year alone, there were 20 such complaints, which according to 2008, when 6 were significantly higher. And the number of crimes has also increased significantly from 7 in 2008 to 46 in 2009. Activities are taking place and will continue, and it would be difficult to say in terms of the overall scope whether there is any assessment of what it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u130	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Dear Member, first of all, a dry answer to the first part of the question. We have two legal convictions for this crime in Slovenia at this time. As Minister alone, I am not particularly pleased with the success of the Public Prosecutor's Office in these proceedings. In particular, if we compare this data with the data on criminal charges filed in relation to this crime, we are particularly concerned about what Council of Europe experts have also identified – there is a special committee at the Council of Europe dealing with issues related to the assessment of anti-money laundering and terrorist financing measures, this is the so-called MONEYVAL Group. It points out that according to the number of registered crimes in Slovenia – 200,000 against assets, 35,000 against the economy, 19,000 other crimes – this certainly does not reflect the property benefits derived from those crimes, which may also be related to money laundering. In this regard, this group believes that our state prosecutors should bring as many cases before the courts as possible in the light of police allegations. This is the first recommendation, which is related to ensuring appropriate case law in this way. In addition, this group proposes that our national prosecutors should make more frequent legal submissions and, inter alia, that, if they consider it necessary, they should also propose to the Supreme Court a general legal opinion on the difficult qualification or proof of this crime. In short, there are still a number of internal reserves in our judicial system and through the amendment of the State Prosecutor's Act, which I am preparing at the Ministry of Justice and Prosecution Policy, which, inter alia, will have to include prioritisation, the setting of complaints policies and the like, we hope that in the future, the State Prosecutor's Office can be more successful in prosecuting these crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u132	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u133	Thank you very much. I also asked this question to you because I asked a similar question, rather specifically, around LHB Franfurt, to the finance minister. And he wasn't sure what was going on in that case. At that time, it was a suspicion of money laundering of EUR 30 million by Janko Zakeršnik, the majority owner of Prevent, a company visited today by the Prime Minister and an economic minister, where workers today seek help on the Red Cross. By the way, the Slovenian public is anxious to see when Mr Danilo Türk will honor Mr Janko Zakeršnik with his national decorations. To continue, Madam Minister, I have been pleased with your written reply, which was part of the questions addressed to the Government, where you say that, with regard to the Korean economic underground, the police have been actively gathering information on the events in the Prevention of Slovenj Gradec since 1999, and that the findings have been updated and informed by the State Prosecutor's Office of Slovenj Gradec. But here's the big problem, because informing the State Attorney's Office in Slovenj Gradz is like letting a fox guard the chickens. In case the police did anything by accident, the D.A. tried to cover everything up. You are answering in this written reply to my question that you are also checking notifications on the transfer of the ownership of Aerodrome and that there is also a suspicion of money laundering. I hope you'll have more luck in the DA's office. In general, if we were to react to money laundering, then many in Slovenia today would not have the kind of social distress that we now have. I think we need to take another step forward, that's taking away the property. Before that, these people who do these jobs also need to be deprived of their immunity. Therefore, the question is: Has the money laundering already occurred in Slovenia?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u134	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u135	I can't tell you the specifics because I'm not familiar with them. However, I am aware of the general orientation of the work of the National Investigation Office, which practically always goes hand in hand with the proposed seizure or temporary detention of assets until the final procedure. I know that some of these procedures are already under way. It's more than ten million dollars, in euros, of course. But I don't know by procedure and I'm not even excused for this data at this stage. Perhaps if you address this question to the police, you will get a more detailed answer or I will be asked again through the appropriate Directorate. You've made some serious accusations at the expense of the Slovenian National Prosecutor's Office. I suggest that, as far as you think anything is wrong there, you inform me as interior minister, and I believe that the Minister of Justice, as a district minister, as long as you know that something really is going on there is against the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u136	Thank you. Would you like some? Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u137	I'd just like to add something to the loss of property. Our ministry is preparing a major national conference on this issue in the first week of October. However, the aim of this conference is to clarify all legal issues relating to the reverse burden rule — which would be a major novelty in our criminal procedure — so that we can continue to take one step further in order to ensure that this property is identified in a timely manner and if it needs to be seized.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u138	Thank you. Mag. Mr Radovan Žerjav will ask the question of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr Ivan Svetlik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, ministers! The gloom has been going through a lot lately, not because of the weather, but mainly because of the loss of many jobs. At that time, of course, it was promised that the country would help people, especially those who lost their jobs in Mura as well as in some other companies that mattered to Pomurje. I would not ask this question myself, but lately people have started to stop me on the road and to inform me of what is happening mainly with these institutions, as they are called, for the implementation of an active employment policy, i.e. the funds through which this active employment policy is carried out. Let me say that in May 2000 the R+-Regional Labour Fund for Pomurje was established, i.e. this institution for the implementation of an active employment policy and was established by the Regional Development Agency Mura and partly by the Regional Organisation of the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia. So it's some kind of public fund to call it that. Last October, however, I was disturbed by the establishment of another fund, the Prekmurje Labour Fund, which was founded by the company Moj d. o. o., Litostrojska 44, 1000 Ljubljana. Of course, from this point of view, I am interested, given how I found out that there are 14 such funds in Slovenia, I am sure that in each region one: Why, in fact, did you, as Minister of 20 October last year, agree at a time when the unemployed from Mura were forecasting and expected to increase significantly, to establish this second Prekmurje Labour Fund, owned by Moj d. o. o., despite the fact that Pomurje has such a fund already established by some public institutions? I want to know: Why is that necessary? Why did you give that consent, given that the fund already existed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u140	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Member, Members! Mr. Zerjav, first of all, about the names. The existing fund is the Prekmurje Labour Fund. The new one is called the Pomurje Foundation. But it's not all the message in the name. The government or the ministry decided to set up this new fund for a simple reason, because just one year ago, a little more than that, announced and then realised the demonstration of a large number of surpluses in the company, in Mura d.d., we estimated that so many surplus workers or unemployed persons would need the generous assistance of our institutions or institutions through which the Ministry and the Employment Office operate. That is why, of course, we have also estimated that one fund for such a number of workers will not be sufficient because it lacks the resources, neither the human resources nor the knowledge to include in a short time such a number of redundant workers, for all the activities that were needed at that time. And from here, this decision. Another reason why we decided to do so was that, in the previous year, we had planned to apply for the European Globalisation Fund or the Globalisation Fund for excessive workers of Mura d.d., which was, as it is said, an additional incentive, particularly because the eligibility of these funds is justified by the fact that a certain number of activities have been carried out in the short term for all these workers. This period is limited to a good four months. That is why we have made an additional decision on such a move. This application for the assistance of the Globalisation Fund was then also prepared and presented at a low level of three million and a half million. The activities for over-workers of the company are, to a large extent, carried out or carried out by the funds already mentioned. And the Ministry also has a contract with them. This is, of course, done by the funds themselves, and in part in this case they must seek the assistance of external contractors collected on the basis of a public procurement contract in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. I must say, with both funds, the ministry works well, it works well, it has good experience. After these workers were dismissed, the activities were carried out in a short time by involving a thousand 900 Muri workers in various programmes. And the assessment was that these services have been performed so far in a qualitative manner. We also perform a survey, i.e. control over the operation of these funds in the field, including through participants and contractors with whom they have contracts, I get information that their work is going well. Both funds also cooperate well, and they have also divided the scope of their activities. We also note that this move, at least in our opinion, was appropriate. Otherwise, this could represent a lack of these activities aimed at the unemployed, a narrow throat that would hinder us from reaching appropriate services in a timely manner and also in a timely manner to implement the programmes under which we now expect funding from the Globalisation Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u142	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u143	I'm sorry, Mr. Secretary, I just can't agree with you here. Seriously. In Pomura, we had a work fund, a Regional Labour Fund for Pomurje, and this would, in my opinion, be entirely sufficient for all active employment policy measures to be implemented through this fund. There is no reason to set up a new fund set up here from Ljubljana by a private company and additional funds are being carried through this new fund so that some employees have programs there. You said it yourself. Both funds hire subcontractors for this, by the way, and then a lecturer comes along who finished college yesterday, whatever, and teaches people how to go to work and how to write applications and not know what to do. Humiliating for some, those who worked in management in Mura and elsewhere. I am appalled that in this area, too, when it comes to terrible stories, sad stories, there is someone who obviously wants something here too, I will say, to make money or to make any use of it. There was no reason to set up another fund. We had a fund established by the Regional Development Agency and the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia. All measures could be taken through this fund, of course with subcontractors, as you claim. There is no need for any other funds, at least not funds that come here from Ljubljana there in Prekmurje we have the wisdom to salt, according to our own words. And I hope that it will not happen again now, like when it comes to Koroška and I do not know which other region, that people from Ljubljana will come back and teach people how and what.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u144	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u145	Thank you very much. So, Mr Žerjav, in the case of a decision as to who will work in this area, we do not distinguish between private and private and public institutions, provided that everything meets certain conditions. Here all entities are equal and must be equal. And, as it is said, evaluation has not so far shown that any of the two funds, which, as they say, cooperate well, would not have achieved the appropriate quality of their services. However, as regards their effects, I must add that in the Murska Sobota area, which is covered by the Regional Service of the Employment Service, this year has come to differ from other regions to a decline, a significant decline in unemployment, which we must also attribute to the activities of these two funds, of course also other activities and actions of the Ministry of Labour. So I guess we've done the right thing in this case. Now, if you don't accept these arguments, of course I won't argue with them either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u146	Thank you. Mr Rado Likar, Minister Vlačič is not among us. You're still going to ask a question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u147	Yeah, I'd still like to ask a question. I want her to answer me orally at the next session. Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Honorable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Despite the fact that Slovenian motorways are not old, there is obviously a need for thorough renovations. We are reminded of this or are reminded of a number of construction sites and partial closures on many highway sections across Slovenia. One such example is the coastal highway at the Vrhnika-Logatec section. This is a two-kilometre section where barely built-in concrete had to be dug up and laid down again. It's because this concrete was inadequate or under-quality. The 5.5 million investment is estimated to result in more than 100,000 euros in damage and the deadline for completing these works will be significantly extended. We rightly ask citizens how many undetected cases there are when, due to the negligence of construction workers on our roads, we are still paying extra for overpaid roads or highways. In fact, if the error had not been established at this stage, it would have occurred later, even after the expiry of the guarantee deadline, and thus again additional costs for the budget and, of course, for us taxpayers would have been incurred. In the last 15 years, Slovenia has invested a lot of financial resources in the construction of motorways. Thus, according to the data I have seen for the 9th Slovenian Congress on Roads and Traffic, the average cost of building a km of motorways between 1994 and 2008 was 10.4 million euros, and even more than 12 million euros, according to some figures. That is why I ask the Minister: How is it possible that such a banal error as the lack of cement in concrete can even occur? Who will be responsible for the damage suffered in a particular case? With what measures do the future minister and his ministry intend to prevent such irregularities?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u148	Thank you. Mr. Minister will answer to you at the next meeting of the National Assembly, that is to say at the October session. Mr Ivan Grill will now ask the Minister for Environment and Freedom, Mr Jarnic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u149	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear Mr. Secretary! The problems encountered in Slovenia with regard to the management of chimney services can be read several times in the media, on television. I believe that you are aware of this, but also, of course, Members. Many bitter users or owners of small combustion plants have turned to me personally, including via email. They are outraged at the powerlessness they themselves experience in the face of many arrogant attitudes of chimneys, chimney companies and, above all, the passivity of your ministry. The irregularities that are taking place are related to the charging of services that are not performed by chimneys at all. I got a case, a chimney came in, wrote down the number of the combustion plant, and set up an account of 78 euros for it. Then people are indignant about charging chimneys for transportation, even though the regulation no longer allows it. And even more absurd is the fact that a chimney comes into a tower where there can be twenty, ten or fifty apartments and each individually charges a service amounting to 3.20 euros. That these are real cases also show here photocopies of these accounts. It is also here that irregularities are linked to the fact that chimneys, as I mentioned earlier, charge things that are not actually done. This is also related to emission performance. In doing so, they do not prove that instruments that are moderate, nor does the legislation allow us this possibility for smokers to provide such services. More importantly, it is absurd that many chimneys are not professionally qualified, that they can carry out such controls, and that there are many cases when a chimney goes into one, after the domestic "counting" of the combustion plant, it is essentially disabled and then the user has to pay the qualified repairers again. In order for absurdities to occur here, many newspaper articles, when security was also threatened, could have exploded. So, Mr. Secretary, I ask you: Do you have any information on how many such applications came directly to your ministry? Have you complied with these applications in such a way as to withdraw any concessions? How do you control the provision of chimney services in Slovenia? The Ministry of the Environment would certainly be the only one who should carry out such control in the professional sense. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u150	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u151	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Dear Mr Grill, I am pleased by this question, for the story with the chimneys is a difficult story which I inherited and which I began at the beginning of my term, with the same thinking, the same as what you now say, to regulate. I ran into an extremely strong lobby, a very strong resistance, and I also have to say some very interesting complex stories. It was discovered that years ago, even in his own home, a law was written on the initiative of the beneficiaries. As I say, I have dealt with this issue very radically, even in the press I have experienced some such reflections of this lobby that they cannot communicate equally with a minister who has such low incomes and then looks at them in his pocket. This year, the Ministry received about 500 complaints from users of chimney services. As far as complaints concerning non-professional work or inadequate conduct of the concessionaire are concerned, they shall, in accordance with the provisions of the chimney regulations on the manner, subject and conditions of implementation relating to the economic or public service of measurement, inspection, cleaning of combustion plants, smoke ducts and air ducts, for the protection of the environment and the efficient use of energy, protection of human health and protection against fire, give way to the resolution of concessionaires by calling on them to explain and explain their conduct or implementation within a certain period. In the event of incorrect charging of services, concessionaires are firstly warned about the consistent use of the price list on chimney services. Written warnings were sent to the six concessionaires with the announcement of the introduction of professional supervision. We try to answer all other complaints or questions in writing. The adoption shall include an action plan for the implementation of professional controls that will help to improve the effectiveness of work in this area. In addition to this, it should be added that the Ministry of the Environment and Space wanted to reduce the number of complaints and comments made by users of chimney services in such a way as to take an intensive approach to amending certain regulations this year. In July a new price list of chimney services was adopted with the re-introduction of the tariff system. And that's what caused a lot of reactions, negatives, to our work. In the first preparation, the regulation on the emissions of substances into the air from small and medium combustion plants, which will also indirectly affect the volume of the chimney service services in the sectors of the implementation of the smoke gas measurements on small combustion plants. There's something else I have to say. Concessions have been given quite a bit in front of me for an unreasonable long time. And this is one of the very incomprehensible procedures that have been in the past. We are looking for a way to regulate this area, how to discipline things and here you Members in the future ask for help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u152	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u153	It's exactly as you say, Mr. Secretary. You inherited that thing. This has been going on since 2004 and it is obvious that there is a large lobby and also a lot of profits, so there are a lot of pressures, not only on you, but also on officials at your ministry and the very inefficiency of these officials and probably some connection, at least the indications suggest that there is a reason that "everything is done that nothing is done". That's a fact. I believe that those who have concessions are now unable to do anything according to the length of time. And I'm asking you: Do you think that this thing would change in a way that essentially gives a chimney pilot a license, means someone who is qualified to perform this work professionally, and that then the users decide for themselves that we will give our combustion plants a review of such a chimney that will be friendly, which will be corrected, especially professional? Because now it is happening that those who have received concessions have also received false data, here probably presented that they have no idea how many qualified people, and then we see that semi-written chimneys, including probably from other countries, are providing this service in a non-professional manner. So I would ask you, if I didn't understand you the most: Will this professional oversight really allow these irregularities to be identified? Who's gonna do this? Will this be within your ministry, or will you authorize a professional company to do so? Above all: Do you plan to withdraw any concession on the basis of the irregularities identified? For I think that one concession taken away will be an example to all those who have failed to do their work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u154	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u155	Thank you very much. We have identified and acted very soon after my arrival on personnel replacements, so this thing has been slightly broken up in the house. With regard to what you have said last, these thoughts are very present and we are working intensively in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u156	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u157	Sure. I would refer to what the Minister himself asked or suggested in his reply, to the assistance of Members and Members. I'm sure that this support will be here, I can say, almost uniform, unless there are any such interests here as well. Therefore, it is likely that any new solutions, regulations or even legislative changes could be helpful in order to bring about a debate here. I therefore propose that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly should hold a debate in response to the Minister, where we will probably be able to examine, in all respects, the irregularities that are present in the Slovenian space, and possibly also to indicate those solutions that will regulate this area in particular for the benefit of many users of combustion plants. This would actually convince them that we care that they are left to chimney companies and their abuses, which are obviously very common. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u158	Thank you. Mr Grill's proposal that the National Assembly hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Environment and Space to his question of the mission will be decided by the State Assembly tomorrow, Tuesday, 21 September 2010, in the framework of the votes. Now he's gonna be a magician. Majda Potrat asked the Minister for Education and Sport Dr. Igor Lukšić a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u159	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear ministers, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! A good week after the start of the new school year, a letter from the Association of Directors and Directors of Basic and Music Education of Slovenia came to the public, expressing in seven points a protest over various things. Indeed, the first three points touch on the salaries of principals and principals, and the next four events, which are taking, as they say, "Slovenian primary school credibility, educational strength and burden school space by unnecessary means". Perhaps the first three points concerning wages are also counted in the broader social context of everything that is happening in Slovenian school. Looking at the low salaries of principals and principals, especially in small schools, this is not stimulating for obtaining the best candidates to perform this function. Even more worrying is the fact that some functions have been cancelled. If we link this to the situation in relation to school procedures, complaints procedures, those associated with contacts with parents, students and students, it can be observed that the social environment in which Slovenian schools operate has become such that directors and principals have felt the need to express a public protest and to call on the highest policies to prepare some kind of moral incentive or assessment of what is going on in education and to prepare some values for this area. That's why I'm asking you, Madam Secretary, How do you respond to the dissatisfaction and concern of principals and principals about the pressure on employees in primary and music schools and the attitude of society towards Slovenian education? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u160	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u161	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Messenger, thank you for asking. Greetings to all Members and fellow ministers! The question, whether it is a letter or a letter, the protest addressed to the principals’ association, in particular the primary schools, is a matter of concern. Concerned because we know that Slovenian education is good, well organised and that schoolchildren are actually the last to raise their voices. But when they raise their voices, things go really wrong, and I've accepted them, I've talked to them, and their grades are also my grades. In this society, things are not going in the right direction, because we still have strong forces that support someone, say, a healthy political culture and a different social culture. It is therefore simple, as it has been said in the National Assembly, that all those who are in the most responsible places should set an example, that is to say, to put on the agenda those issues which are really issues, as the Government does, as a good part of the public does, but a considerable part of the space builds on some political climate, which continues to produce ideas that values do not apply, that education does not consider that it is possible to benefit from any other means of not acting in accordance with their competences. In short, there is a climate, an atmosphere that has now slowly begun to penetrate schools and schools are strengthened by those who build on such performances. So when a father comes to school with a police officer and asks a teacher to return the cell phone that she stole from his child the other day, then we can see that it is a matter of concern. Look, the school is an autonomous space, and in school, people learn how to react like adults. This place needs to be protected, and it is not right for us to make a place out of school that they can invade with such plays, either parents or someone else. So the climate's not good, it's not good. Of course, we have problems here, we all know that we have problems, but it seems to me that in this country some of the key political forces are not aware of the need to act responsibly here. So the reason they're referring to there in armor, the reaction of the general public and also, say, the former Minister of Education, the question of autonomous reaction, the educational reactions of Ljubljana schools in food distribution. But this is just one of the things that shows the misunderstanding of one part of the political body, why it actually goes to school. And that's why I take this call as an invitation to sobriety, not to the current minister or government in relation to the school field, because here we have admitted that we are in the same position, but to one part of the political public, who is trying to use any opportunity to make one big story out of it where it is not. Our education is good and must be supported in this.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u162	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u163	Thank you very much for this part of the answer, Mr. Secretary-General. The call for a national consensus on social values is the thought that comes from this particular expression. Of course, I recognized the story of food littering and the director’s reaction to one of Ljubljana’s schools and various public reactions to this decision. But in all of this, it seems interesting to me that, however we are already trying to form a school as an autonomous space in which the profession has the main word, even when it comes to deciding on certain educational issues, I wonder what your experience is by adopting in the previous term in law also the establishment of educational plans. These have been a great promise of how education plans within a particular school entity will win over some, we will say, also the environmental impact, which does not always bring only good experience into school space. The school is always at the intersection of the home, social and school fields. And to the extent that it can make an autonomous decision and withstand pressure, the various pressures and the fulfilment of its basic mission, then its quality is also recognized. In the past, we have done some of these things where, by leaving individual things, for example, determining success or something similar or diminishing the importance of external verification, we have also reduced the ability of an individual to compare ourselves with others. How do you feel about the curriculum and these things? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u164	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u165	Thank you, too, for complementing the questions. The educational plans were adopted by 2009 until June. Schools took them along with their parents. Here is a discussion on how, within these options, individual schools should take place in individual environments, i.e. primary schools, including some measures, including last-minute educational measures. We need to know that schools deal with very different populations, even within schools are very different populations of children or even individuals. It is therefore right that schools here have developed their own strategies, practices that strengthen their autonomous work within the educational field. There was some relatively good work done here, which can also remain a letter on paper if we do not upgrade it. I just had a meeting today with all the employees at the School of Directors where we talked about how to move from the existing mode of operation where there are programs, and then they call these programmes to inform directors or those who want to be principals and those programmes. In fact, what I'm interested in as a school minister is the state of management at any moment. We don't have this through this system today because the simple system wasn't paying attention to it. So what we are going to try to develop now is that it will also be through the School of Directors and similar to the Institute of Education and other institutions that we have at our disposal, clear that we need to lead the quality policy of all schools, so not only as the principle that those who are good and interested can get as much education as possible, receive resources and so on, but to develop a mechanism that we will also come to where they somehow do not want it the most, have not developed such aspirations. So if we want to consolidate the autonomy of schools, then we also need to strengthen the integration and integration of all these institutions and directors' assets, so that this school space is even better than it is now, and that autonomy is even stronger. Now people are used to wanting more directives or professions as they appear at national level [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u166	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Do you have a procedural proposal? No, no, no. Mr Milenko Ziherl will ask the question of the Foreign Minister, Mr Samuel Žbogar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u167	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Nice greetings again to the ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Well, Mr Minister, we have dealt with a part of this issue today, or a similar question, but in fact it is now a continuation, a continuation of my desire or an incentive to prepare ourselves as much as possible and to occupy the best places through which the recognition of Slovenia, representing Slovenia's interests, could be reflected as best possible. However, this report by Mrs Ashton can be commented on in many ways. In fact, the choice – I see that they are going somehow to re-examine Brazil, Washington. We probably don't have any bigger chances if those names were suggested that just somehow got burned in Washington with a famous Washington dispatch. Of course, it can also be explained, so Spain got the left hand share. Of course, you mentioned earlier, at the expense of the presidency. I think that this has been assessed as one of the worst presidencies in recent years, because those who attended the COSAC sessions had a lot of comments on the organisation. One is an organization, the other is how much content suffered. Certainly, if we were to follow the analogy that even the Slovenian staff who proved to be in the Presidency – our Presidency was very noticeable as the Presidency of the new Member of the European Union, we put some new things back on the agenda and so on, but it was those people who somehow disappeared if they somehow went through your ministry, then the President of the country did not take them into account after very questionable legal channels and we were without diplomatic representatives in important European countries for a long time. The story was also repeated by appointment, as the proposed names obviously did not meet the criteria. We're not the only ones who've regretted it. Here I see that, say, Angola assigns to the Spanish, although I would expect the Portuguese to receive it either by speaking or by historical connections. Perhaps one of these African countries would suggest sending a Slovenian, since Africa is extremely poorly covered, only with Cairo. So, I kind of appreciate that this is the result of our foreign policy and, of course, I expect what it will be like [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u168	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Look, first of all, I have to say a few words in defense, if I may say so, to our candidates who, if we wish, have been exposed to my wishes in these candidates. We've looked at a list of 30 cities. We looked at the cities we were interested in, and then we made an internal call at the foreign ministry and we chose those people we thought were good candidates. Catherine Ashton spoke, give me the best candidates. Then we approached these best candidates and we said, please, run for these places. It's not an easy candidacy. There's been a lot of reports from all 27 countries. Of the four people we reported, only two received an invitation to speak with the expert committee. I think there's something more to it and something to be confident about, so you can go into this whole procedure. After all, even because of what is happening to them now, it is actually being compromised in some way, that they themselves were not professionally good enough and that is why they failed, which I will explain is not true. Two out of four, or only two, came before the Commission before this expert committee composed of the Member States of the European Union. Only one candidate or candidate went on to the finals, as we speak, is said to be the narrowest choice of two, during which Ashton decided. Two of them went through an expert choice, one that came to an end, absolutely passed all the criteria, and then finally there was a political choice. The choice that has been made, as we are currently analysing, is that Ashton preferred the people who came from the structures of the European Commission. Some structures are now drowning in external work, some people are going to lose their jobs, and some people are being rescued in structures first. For example, of the three Irish representatives who have been elected, none of them are directly from Ireland, but all three are from the European Commission. From Luxembourg, the two representatives they have on the list are one which is not from Luxembourg at all and is also from the Commission. So at least in the first round was the orientation to get rid of taking people from the Commission. There was no problem in our candidates, the problem was in the choice itself, and yet it's the first round. I think it's right that we can't say that we've given bad candidates because of the candidates themselves. They were good candidates. And the candidate, who reached the end, had experience with the presidency, led the working group for the entry of Europe and the Russian Federation during the presidency. When I mentioned the Spanish Presidency, everyone can assess the Spanish Presidency in their own way, but yet the people who turn out, especially in Brussels, through group leadership or in some locations. Because of this, they were able to put five of them into this service because of their recognition. As I understand it, our time was then, in the summer of 2008, to send people to the Commission, then they knew them, then they knew their names, then they were there. Now that's a little distance. But many of the people we have proposed have also had experience from the Presidency of the European Union. How do we move on? We have already made some preparations for these candidates, and we have sent them to Brussels to have some discussions at our Permanent Representation for them, some consultations. I think that now we may extend these preparations to contact Ashton's cabinet, how we can prepare our candidates even more, perhaps even more so. I think there are still a lot of cities, we now have a few candidates, some very good candidates, including ambassadors, who are running for office as CEOs in Brussels. Among them are those who say they were rejected. We have a lot of young people who have applied and a new invitation is coming, a new call for places is coming next year, when we try to prepare even better, to prepare them even better, so that we will be successful in the end. I think that this first round has been an experience for us, too, and we have learned some lessons from it, and I think we will be more successful in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u170	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u171	Yeah, sure. So I also somehow understand, according to the places that our representatives have run for office, as some kind of silent diplomacy and an indirect mistrust of our existing engagements. A representative of Denmark is going to Skopje, but for example, a representative of Italy is going to Albania. There is a great deal of interest and great connections, historically, either bad or in recent times very interesting between Italy and Albania. And given that quite a number of events took place this year, let's say in the internal political field, there was certainly a conference in Brdo. The bad result was somehow then transferred to this process of the Hill, in which we would then continue to meet. At the forum, however, representatives from the former Yugoslavia asked what was going on with the Hill initiative, will anything continue, what events? It is increasingly showing that even with the involvement of the President of the State and his triangle of advisers, and so on, we are increasingly turning against non-classification and, of course, there will be no great opportunities for us in the European Union. At the same time, we observe in the internal political field that sometimes the left hand does not know what the right hand is doing. We had a hearing for the ambassador to Lisbon, but at the same time it is in terms of rationalisation that this city would somehow be abolished. So for these candidates, before we talked about the knowledge society, it has been difficult in Slovenia because knowledge has been poorer in the last 20 years because of the knowledge of Kordez and similar tycoons, not some other knowledge. And that's why I don't know, maybe it'll be really hard to get candidates to really fill these places in the second round. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u172	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u173	Well, we still have a lot of candidates, so I believe we're gonna fill them. All I owe is an answer to the Hill process. The process of the Hill continues. A meeting of transport ministers of the Brdo process was held, a meeting of the ministers of energy of the Brdo process is being held this year. At the beginning of next year, Slovenia will host the Brdo justice ministers. So this process continues and let us hope, in the wake of the UN General Assembly resolution on Kosovo and Serbia, that there will also be dialogue between Serbia and Kosovo and that we will be able to host again in the near future or also organise the Brdo Summit, at which all participants will participate. I doubt that I can do this this year, I doubt it will be fast, but I think that things are also going in the right direction in the region.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u174	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u175	Certainly, thank you, Mr President. I have a procedural proposal to hold a debate at the next meeting on the Minister's response. At the same time, I am predicting that we will probably also request an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u176	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Ziherl to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Foreign Affairs to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, which is Tuesday, 21 September, in the framework of the votes. Now I ask Mr. Jurša, Dr. Vlačič, Minister of Transport, is not in the Chamber, yet will you ask him a question? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u177	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. I'll ask Patrick Vlacic, Minister of Transport, the next question. Pursuant to the fourth paragraph of Article 46 of the Law on Public Roads, the then Minister of Transport issued a regulation concerning restrictions on the use of state roads, which are longer than one year. That was in 2007. The Regulation lays down restrictions on the use of State roads for a duration of more than one year, prohibiting the use of certain types of vehicles for the purpose of road insurance for reasons relating to road insurance and road transport on them, due to inadequate technical elements of the road, inadequate vehicle load capacity or inadequate carrying capacity of the installation. The second point of Article 6 provides for sections of State roads where, due to the inadequacy of the vehicle structure, traffic for vehicles with a higher axle load of 8 tonnes is prohibited. This list also contains a section of the regional road Ljutomer-Pavlovci, which is 13.96 km long. Since we have been on that section of the regional road through the city of Ljutomer for some time now, I ask the Minister: Who shall supervise the implementation of this Regulation? In what way? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u178	Thank you. Should he answer you orally at the next meeting or in writing?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u179	Let him answer me orally.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u180	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u181	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u182	Dr. Peter Verlic will now ask the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr. Žarnic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Zarnić, there is a difficult area in your department, this is the area of preparation and then the adoption of state spatial plans. If we look at the Ministry of Environment and Space website, there are a lot of documents listed there that indicate that a lot of state spatial plans for roads, railways, economic facilities, energy facilities are being prepared for space and reception. I'm particularly interested, and that's what I'm asking you: What are the schedules? How do you estimate after this time you've occupied this town? Where are we, especially in the field of road and rail infrastructure? We know that, in fact, the crisis can also be the time when consumption can also be stimulated by greater investment in roads and railways, but unfortunately, these investments cannot even occur if documentation is not prepared. That's why I want to know: At the time you came to the Ministry, what progress was made in this area in particular? What are the schedules? How do you rate them? Are they handcuffed, or have you even been able to speed them up? In fact, it is a condition that construction permits can then be obtained and that Slovenia also revives in the field of roads and railways. Actually, I have a feeling that somehow we don't get the right answers. Although something is promised by the law on the placement of spatial objects in space. I am sorry that this has not only been limited to roads, but probably still, even after all the additions that we have witnessed in the adoption process so far, will not have any real effects - or I am wrong. Well, it's quite simple: How do you assess the procedures for adopting State spatial plans? What are the schedules? Have you been able to speed them up, especially in the area of the preparation of state spatial plans for road and rail infrastructure? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u184	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u185	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, honourable Members Verlich! This is a very topical issue, just before the proposed law is passed. You have already offered a large part of the answers to the questions and, in fact, as far as the clerk is concerned, this is the Directorate for Space, we have no major problems following the deadlines. Problems begin with those who cannot prepare data so that we can carry out our work. The legal deadlines for the provision of guidelines and opinions by some space regulators shall not be taken into account and shall be awaited. We have just tried these most pressing problems in the proposal for a law to place spatial regulation of state importance in a place that somehow goes beyond what I can say, even if I cannot say that we offer miracles, but in our assessment it is that in normal procedures matters should be reduced to half. I must say, we don't have too many normal cases in our country. These floods have also shown when, for example, for some movement of some kind that is dangerous to floods, 4 years of individual stalling the matter, forcing the country, creating costs, money that will be allocated, is spent on something else, and for that curve, you may have heard that only January of this year things have opened up so that it can go forward. I fear that there has been a strong habit in our society that, because of its narrow desires, an individual can block very important public interests, such as flood protection, transport and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u186	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u187	Yes, thank you very much for that answer. I will remember most of your response, where you said you expected the new law to shorten the procedures for the adoption of state spatial plans by half. This is very, very promising and you will certainly have the support of all Members and Members of the National Assembly here. Let us hope that you will succeed, because this is what we would like to check, not just the Members, probably the public. In fact, nowhere have I been able to identify or find a specific date for adoption, such as a government regulation, for a specific spatial plan. It's like an expected date. I therefore ask you in this supplementary question: Are you going to update this website on the Directorate for Space by also writing the expected date of reception on the Government? So let's say if we go to the end from which we're both coming, let's say we know when the highway connection in Šmaru-Sap will be, when will the regulation be adopted, when will the regulation be adopted, say for the rail crossing to the Sun Courts and so on, let's say the second lane from Grosuplje to the Mountain. Is that what you're planning? This would enable us to also be able to monitor in concrete terms whether this step in reducing the adoption of State spatial plans will succeed and we will have a simple opportunity to look into the work of the Ministry of Environment and Space and, of course, also to check your success. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u188	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u189	Thank you very much. When we were preparing this law, we did a couple of simulations, dates. Everything goes great with assumptions, assumptions that are in our hands. But there are always sudden events, I've said some before. Let's say I can't predict the delay of some of the preparers. Something has already been done to limit these delays in the law, which according to the rest of the legislation, and therefore we can do with each of these scenarios of the desired dates and then at points where we do not specify who has missed the matter and what has missed it. It's some kind of kind of radical, not very popular method, because someone would say that then the Ministry is suing. If there's such a requirement, I'm always for efficiency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u190	Mr Jakob Preseknik will now ask Mrs Radic's Minister of Economy a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u191	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister and Honourable Minister, colleague and colleague! I intend to ask a question or open a shorter discussion on the subject of the wood industry. There is always a problem if, in a place or in a province, jobs are closed if they are closed if an individual firm goes bankrupt. However, the fact is that in the wood industry, according to the data I have, the last period of almost two decades has been abolished, that is true, more than 20 thousand jobs, mostly in large wood industries. Smaller plants, which have also created the truth lovingly, but unfortunately with outdated technology, cannot make up for this collapse. We have, so to speak, the most forested areas practically without the wood industry. Frozenness, we know that, and we've talked about it more and more, and it's the best quality that goes into exports. Already at a joint meeting of several committees, for the environment, agriculture, forestry, a number of decisions have been adopted to help develop the sector more. The results are certainly not yet visible. The representatives of the wood industry and the economy in general expect concrete measures from the country that will go towards increasing the competitiveness of the wood processing industry, increased consumption in all areas, both housing and other construction, furniture and so on, and consequently lower exports of refrigeration to all our surrounding countries, particularly to Italy and Austria. It's also supposed to be a bigger posse. Thus, for several years now, this section has not reached an annual growth, which is also a kind of damage and, as a result, a reduced payment of environmental penalties to the European Union treasury. I ask you, Madam Minister – we have been working together on this subject, which was good on your part, I must say, and we have also been commended by the wood industry economy: What will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and your ministry do to ensure greater competitiveness of the woodworking industry after the collapse of a large number of wood-processing companies and the abolition of more than 20,000 jobs? I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u192	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u193	Thank you for asking. As Mr President has already said, restructuring or start-up is a priority in Slovenia, not only of our ministry, but also of the governments, and I can also say of parliament, because we have discussed the possibilities for improving the situation and for further development of this sector by as many as three committees in the National Assembly. It is said that the climate to accelerate the development of wood-processing activities both in Parliament and in the Government is more than favourable. The fact is that the woodworking industry, which was once certainly one of Slovenia's paradoxic industries, is now in an unenviable position. The fact is, in the past, the woodworking industry has not taken advantage of those opportunities or opportunities; there has been a lack of investment in development. In fact, the most important sales systems that have enabled the successful marketing of the Slovenian woodworking industry have collapsed and today we are in the situation we are in. However, on the other hand, Slovenia has a unique development potential and also opportunities in the wood processing industry. In fact, the forest is the only, we can say, almost the only raw material that Slovenia has on a fairly large scale, and it is really unacceptable that today we do not know how to process these raw materials in Slovenia and create added values in Slovenia, but actually export them together with added value to our neighbouring countries. This has also been the case in our ministry, that we have decided that this activity, although we do not run sectoral policy, is why we do not deal specifically with individual industries, but in this particular case we have decided to give particular attention to the woodworking industry. We have already taken a few steps, first of all where I personally say that it is not worthwhile to waste too much time, but despite having one basis, we have started with the preparation of a comprehensive analysis of the woodworking industry. On the basis of this analysis, we also expect some systemic measures for a systematic approach to the restructuring of the woodworking industry. You know that he's waiting, I don't think we have time to wait one year to get to this research or analysis, so we've joined other measures in spite of all the known facts that something can already be done. As you know, the Government has already adopted an action plan for green public procurement, and on this basis there is already a regulation on green public procurement, which stipulates that building materials and building furniture must be installed in the new building and in the renovation of buildings, containing a minimum of 30% of wood. This is one such concrete incentive for the wood-processing industry that accelerates demand for such products. In doing so, however, I would like to point out that we must be moderate in these measures, and we must not forget the other industry that makes the same materials from other materials, say Trimo Trebnje works from other materials and we must not be here too much in this euphoria to help the woodworking sector, we must not be too warm and forget about the other industry, that we will not do any harm on that side. However, the wood will receive one special attention in all these regulations. But we can't make a more serious development breakthrough out of state offices, the government can't do it. It is crucial – and here goes all my calls, in fact, to all the companies of the wood-processing industry – to initiative, commitment and willingness to do something about development must be theirs. We will support them in these initiatives to connect, unite and together make one development breakthrough, and that is why we are also in the call for the co-financing of the establishment of economic and development centres, which is now published, as well as in particular [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u194	Thank you. Mr. President, would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u195	Yes, I want, of course, also to allow the Minister to complete what she has finally started. Well, I'll give you some other problems, if you'll excuse me. One of the problems is that wood industry and forestry often mix together and often give much more emphasis to forestry than to forestry or the timber industry. We already have as sectors practically divided into three ministries, agriculture, the economy and higher education, science and technology, as far as development work is concerned. As far as education is concerned, I have repeatedly said at these dedications that there is too little emphasis on education, in particular in our colleges, such as construction, architecture and so on, and from there I know that wood was one pendant, but that was many years ago. I'm sure we should update the education programmes. The Minister of the Environment, when he comes out of there, nods me, and I'm sure that's true. On the other hand, there are also issues of wood quality that can be used for heating, biomass, pallets and so on. There is a possible banal issue, which is certainly not a matter of the ministry, but a matter of market grabbing. We have an old-fashioned system in cars. Why don't we put this in the furniture? A system old for new wood furniture and thus accelerated the use of wood or thus, of course, promoted the use of wood instead of plastic instead of metal and what I know which materials yet. Of course, no prohibition, as you mentioned earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u196	Thank you. Would you like a Madam Secretary? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u197	Thank you. It's a topic that must require a little wider consideration. You have just started, Mr President, in fact, working in a number of areas is necessary for a comprehensive solution or for a comprehensive approach to a better, more efficient development of the woodworking industry. One is that this is an area of development where we have to enable businesses to take this development step towards other industries, and another is education. As I am aware, the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology is preparing a new programme, a development programme of higher education, focusing on adapting higher education programmes to those industries and the needs of the economy as they come. The third segment, however, concerns promoting demand for wood. All three segments need to be worked. And the fourth segment, which we now recognize and relate to forestry, is the very price of wood coming from the forest. This is where the anomalies are detected. I can say that since I've been a little more public than I am, I'm going to say in quotations, someone who understands the woodworking industry -- that they've actually just started sending me questions, dilemmas, disproportionates, anomalies that are emerging in this sector. In fact, we need to work together here, especially with the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. And on this subject, we have an already agreed meeting with the Minister of Agriculture to discuss these very high price increases in timber over the last few years, which are said to have been encouraged by too high subsidies for biomass electricity. In short, this is actually about a whole set of problems that need to be structured and, of course, then tackled appropriately. We at the Ministry of the Economy are just like that, I will say, voluntarily have taken one role as coordinator and, as I said, we will be gradually implementing measures in this area, of course, with the aim of being able to talk tomorrow about an industry that will be proud of us. But once again, without the active role of businesses, we will not be able to make any major breakthroughs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u198	Thank you. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar will ask the Minister of Justice Mr Zalar and the Minister of Economy of Mrs Radic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u199	Thank you very much for the word, Mr President. Dear Members, Members, Minister, Ministers and others! It's been about a year since I triggered the problem of not paying wages and contributions. It is known that some unscrupulous employers are harming and socially endangering employees and their families and the public treasury by not paying salaries and social and health contributions. Even public institutions such as the Tax Office of the Republic of Slovenia participate in the postponement of payments of contributions. I also drew attention to speculation and damage to employees due to the legal possibility of setting up new companies with limited liability by persons who have not settled their obligations to employees and other legal or natural persons in their previous companies with limited liability. Speculation also allows for the law with the Institute of Forced Settlement. Also in the case of an economic company which declared a compulsory settlement a good month ago, which was supposed to write off claims of almost two years' income of this company, creditors were to receive only one fifth of their claims within a few years. As a result of these write-offs, the State is also harmed through its own companies, which are also creditors of this company. Despite the signatures, this company will be able to operate normally on the market during and after the enforcement procedure itself, if the settlement is successful. Again, it is a law that saves speculative companies, but it does not protect creditors and employees. At my initiative and on the initiative of other Members, the government has set up an interdepartmental group to ensure that legal anomalies are eliminated and employees and creditors are protected from speculators and injuries. In the meantime, I asked the responsible ministers when and how these inhumane acts, which threaten the social security of employees, undermine the competitiveness of businesses and fair business practices, would no longer take place. There have been no real answers and no concrete action has yet been detected. That is why I ask you, Madam Minister of the Economy and Mr Minister of Justice: What are the concrete measures you have already taken to ensure that these anomalies and damage to employees will no longer occur? If you have not yet carried out these measures, I ask you: How long will the measures be ready? What are they going to be like? When should we enter into force? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u200	Thank you. Who's first? Are you going to be Mr. Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u201	Thank you very much, Your Honor. A number of measures have already been taken by this government, not only the Government and the National Assembly have taken a number of measures on which you ask. Let me remind you of the amendment to the Financial Transactions Act, which is the so-called novel of the ZFPPIPP-B, there was an undeniable assumption of how to ease the creditor's evidentiary burden, in which case workers and the Public Guarantee and Maintenance Fund may also be able to start bankruptcy proceedings. And this indisputable assumption is established that if three months in a row are not paid wages or accrued contributions, it is considered to be such an irrefutable assumption. So this is where the workers are directly protected. The same applies to the case of an attempt, otherwise legitimate, in a legal way, to delay the initiation of the bankruptcy procedure. There is also a special new provision that prevents such a postponement from taking place if not all obligations towards workers have been settled before. The same measure relating to this area is also linked to a later amendment to the same law, the so-called C novel, which aims to increase the effectiveness of these procedures, and so is the amendment to the Law on Enforcement. It is all about paying the claims of all creditors, including workers, as soon as possible. Let me specifically mention Article 199.a of the Insolvency Act. This solves the situation that they have illustrated by a specific case. Here, or may, it is expected that, in particular where the State is involved as a direct or direct owner, creditors will organise themselves in a way that takes over the ownership of owners who do not recapitalise the companies in time and actually cause the insolvency situation to occur. In short, it is a series of measures proposed by this Government and adopted by the National Assembly. Moreover, we have also specifically examined the criminal aspects of non-payment and non-accounting of contributions and have found that the Penal Code fully protects affected beneficiaries in the same way as laid down in Article 196 of the Penal Code, which is confirmed by the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office. Of course, that's not all. When you mention straw companies, there is also a provision of the Judicial Register Act. Here in particular, I must stress that this is primarily the responsibility of the registrar courts to verify how the obligation to pay the taxes paid and the contributions paid is paid in all cases when it comes to setting up a new company and where it is a capital company where the participant is involved with more than 25%. Here we see some reserves for change, and together with the Ministry of the Economy we will try to tighten policy on these issues in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u202	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Well, actually, it's just a supplement. In fact, Minister Zalar explained very well. The Ministry of Economy has also been involved in the Interdepartmental Group, where we have been looking for possible solutions to improve the situation. We have also examined whether anything can still be done in the Company Act, but when we look at the provisions of the Company Act, we have actually come to realize that all of these, we will say, are already well defined in the Company Act, but that the problem is that they are not being applied. In fact, there is very little case law in this area. Therefore, in fact, – perhaps so much in addition to the Minister's explanation – we have also prepared a review of all the articles that are already being prepared by supervisors or creditors and also by those who need to draw attention to potential irregularities, in fact, to the attempted abuse of one table of all the articles that allow already to act against such attempts of abuse. And we also want to contribute in this way to reducing the number of such abuses or to timely detection and appropriate sanctioning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u204	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u205	Thank you, I would ask, especially because of these answers, which I have also received from Minister Lahovnik, but in practice, as you said, Madam Minister, things are going very differently. So, marriage is supposed to protect workers and the unemployed in its entirety, but it's not long that we've also had the Vegrad case, and we know what's going on, what's going on with the workers and what's going on with them. In short, the law must be written in such a way that there will be no doubt as to what is right and what is wrong and that the competent institutions will take full action. In fact, I have recently received a general opinion from the Anti-Corruption Commission, which since 2007 has alerted all ministries, in addition to your ministries, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration, the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Work, the State Prosecutor's Office, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Pension Insurance, and someone else to take advantage of employers for the benefit of domestic and foreign workers for the abandonment of public servants' duties, corruption and violation of workers' fundamental rights, which render individual employers unjustifiable benefits. The competent authorities should leave action on this issue at any time. Today's legislation still allows for all these violations. In short, it still protects speculative and irresponsible entrepreneurs and also allows unpunished damage to creditors and employees. That is why I expect and not only that these laws will be amended to prevent speculation by entrepreneurs, to protect employees and other creditors, to act immediately by competent inspectors or to ensure that the competent ministries achieve that those employees who do not protect the public interest do not protect [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u206	Thank you very much, Madam Ambassador. Mr. Zalar, would you like to respond? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u207	I can answer to a limited extent. Above all, I would like to repeat what Minister Radic said, it is not a problem that we have bad laws, the problem is that we have insufficient responsible administration and supervisory councils. Unfortunately, even in cases where the State is involved either as an indirect or as a direct owner of certain companies. This is why, for example, the Vegrada Government case has prepared a specific review of provisions, various laws, with particular emphasis on the Company Act, which allows supervisors to act in a timely manner. We hope that this recommendation, which will be transmitted to all companies where the country is participating as a majority or minority owner, will be taken into account as a possible example of good practice in dealing with such cases as the one you mentioned. However, I would also like to point out that the Government, at its last meeting, has also adopted the proposal for a pension reform and has explicitly provided for the possibility of suspending the payment of contributions on the basis of the decision of the competent tax authority. We have so far had a system because such a decree was possible for various ways and reasons. The government has decided to remove this possibility. This will, according to our assessment, significantly reduce the possibility that there are still cases that we can all only regret. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u208	Minister of Economy Mrs. Radic, would you like to complete your reply? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u209	Thank you. Maybe just one more sentence. Indeed, these laws will have to be implemented. Perhaps now activities under this legislation and against the more successful persecution of such abuses take about a month or two. The real effects will be, in my opinion, also from the amended laws referred to by Minister Zalar; now they are just starting to show. And even in all these specific cases, I know that more or criminal complaints or criminal proceedings have already been initiated. In short, I am convinced that supervisors now understand that these are their obligations and that they are obliged to react in this way. I expect this to work out. But it is true that it is our job to tighten our control. And even in this area, we have already agreed, at least as far as tax administration is concerned, that they will exercise more intensive control so that there will not be, as you said, abandonment, as you said, has failed me, mainly that our supervisory authorities will work effectively.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Lah will ask the question of the Minister for Environment and Space, Dr Roku Žarnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u211	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, Mr. Secretary! At the previous meeting, when I asked Mr Gjerkesh a question, you wanted to answer. But today you will have the opportunity, I have prepared a similar question for you. In the operational programme of environmental and transport infrastructure, a number of projects are under the responsibility of the Ministry of Environment and Space, in particular in the areas of water supply, waste water disposal and treatment. My question is: At what stage of preparedness are these cohesion projects? Do you think they will be carried out in time to draw on European funds in the period up to 2013? In fact, we have a number of assignments, quite large, in the area of water supply behind our necks, health inspectors for the removal of local plumbing. Then draining and purifying waste water. The state has promised the European Union that we will settle this within a certain period of time, which is until 2017, and we do not see a solution for the congregation. Then also in the field of waste management, the number of waste management centres is expected to decrease to 10 from 15 or even less. We do not know which congregations will belong to a center, and projects are not quite prepared. In view of the fact that it is in the stage, in the procedure of the national assembly law on the placement of state projects in the premises and all related thereto, I am interested in: Will these cohesion projects, which, in my opinion, are of national importance, also benefit from this law? I am particularly interested in this because otherwise I do not see any light at the end of the tunnel, how to get to land for these facilities, or whether it is the service contracts, because in the case of this line infrastructure, they are huge and will have problems for the municipalities, some already, but some have not yet. I want to know: What's your opinion? By law, I see a considerable solution to this most difficult problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u212	Minister Žarnic, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u213	Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I'll start with the last question. Maybe it's not an excuse, but this marriage has come to you with a few months' delay for one simple reason. It's kind of my own fault. First of all, it was the law for line objects. When the matter was far away, I asked my colleagues and they agreed to an extension, but if I say so domestically and even more professionally, it has a broader name. What Dr. Verlich said is that he may regret that it's not just linear. They are not lineless in this law, it is only widespread, and just what you have found, I hope that this law, as it is, will contribute to it. But at the end of the answers, you saw that the key was somewhere else, why things were standing and could be delayed. It is only possible at the outset to say that our ministry is essentially an intermediate body for these programmes and, in the period 2007-2013, at least as far as we are concerned, our work has three such segments: management of municipal waste, decommissioning and water treatment, and provision of drinking water. Everything in this programme is for these three areas of 457 million, approximately. I must say that so far, I am quite well-willed, it has been issued for 46% of the decisions. 46% of this money goes into implementation, namely waste management, where there are 205.5 million, is already 51% of the benefits, decommissioning and cleaning, where 102 million is 60%, and drinking water supply is 148%. I'll explain why so little. Probably voters want to know exactly which centers are ahead for that money that hasn't been used yet. According to the programme here is the Regional Waste Centre of Dolenjska, second phase, here are now decisions practically, then the Regional Waste Management Centre of Primorje, second phase, before the decision. Then on PT1 – removal and cleaning of the waste leader, here are the removal and cleaning of waste water in the river Krka, Drava, Ljubljanica, Dravinja and Central Sava. In the review and additions there is an additional lineup of Drava's second set, the first set is already fine and separation in the river Soča CČN Nova Gorica and the first set of upper Sava. So here are some things that need to be settled. The drinking leader is System A, System B and System C, Lendava, Goričko, Prlekia. Then there is the river Drava, Sotle, Domžal, Kamnik, coast and Sora. Now where do we see the biggest problems? Even when matters are well handled, the procedures fall due to complaints against the State Audit Commission and there is nothing we can do here. In this regard, after a discussion with Minister Gjerkeš, we have agreed with the State Audit Commission that matters are being dealt with a little more quickly and more effectively and that progress is already being seen here, and I think there is a particular need to talk and engage. The problem is that it may also be necessary to activate the somewhat more stringent issue of unjustifiable complaints being punished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u214	Mr. Lah, please. Are you asking for an additional response?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u215	Thank you. See, this is exactly the problem, namely the river Krka, this was some pilot project, some of which has been waiting for eight years to be implemented, this is quite a time. Some mayors are waiting for these funds, and the municipalities do not yet have cleaning facilities, which they would otherwise have built themselves. You probably know the case of the Novo Mesto cleaning plant, where 8.8 million euro is, the deadline should be 30. 6. 2012, it is stuck in the selection of the contractor. I hope things get easier here. Then I didn't hear about the water supply. It's probably more about specific projects. I must say that it is projects where five, six or seven municipalities are involved and it is already very difficult to coordinate between municipalities, that municipalities have to finance previously such an ideal design, then types, ideas, pre-investment designs, investment programmes and then carry out cost-benefit analyses and then come into line with the so-called service contracts, which are hundreds of them and quickly stuck. A lot of money has been invested, and since this has been going on for several years, the saints have been demanding answers, and they are quite skeptical that nothing will happen, and a lot of money has already been spent. And I would like these things to be simplified, I hope with this. The same applies to waste management centres called CERO2. The inspector issued a decision to terminate the postponement [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] And I hope this works out. [[...]] The municipality of Trebnje will also have to be included because it does not belong to any CERO [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u216	Thank you very much, Mr. Lach. Here you go, Dr. Jarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u217	Thank you. Just a few extra info. Krk 2's been down for the third time, and now we're hoping it'll be over. As far as Trebnje's concerned. The need was a somewhat unfortunate story because they could not agree, because they could not agree, part of their clientele had to flee to Ljubljana and Trebnje realized that this was no longer the case and they joined the New City and were talking at my ministry on both sides, I would say, very constructive. Now we can count and work in this direction to join Trebnje in the New City. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Mr. Patrick Wlačič is away. Mr. Chad, will you ask the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u219	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers, respected ministers! EuroRAP is a European independent road safety assessment programme set up by an international non-profit organisation. The results were also produced for Slovenia in 2009 on the basis of data on the state road network and traffic congestion data, traffic accidents and road risk maps. Very interesting findings, or very burdensome for our roads, are that 59.3% of state roads have high or medium risks and that as many as two thirds of traffic accidents with severely injured or dead happen on the regional roads themselves. This is also true in the diocese or section of Škofja Loka along the Poljanska Valley, which also has the mark that the risk is medium to high. I have already asked the Minister a question in March, where I have warned him that the road is very long, that it has more debris, that it is very disturbing for everyday driving and also dangerous. In particular, I have specifically marked the 7.5 kilometer on which it was this month that a fatal accident occurred, the third on this site. But I also received an answer in April that all these sections would be repaired by summer 2010. Now I ask him again: When will the summer of 2010 be again, or when will these dangerous sections be repaired? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Mr. Chad, do you want an oral or written answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u221	I want an oral answer, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u222	It is said that within 30 days you will receive a written reply from the Minister. Ambassador Darko Menich wants to ask Mrs Katarina Kresal, Minister of the Interior, a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u223	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Honorable ministers, ministers, colleagues, colleagues! Madam Minister of the Interior, I ask: When and how will the Ministry of the Interior strive to improve the underprivileged employment of the police? This is where I particularly think of police stations, because it also improves all security for citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Katarina Kresal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u225	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members! Messenger Meni, thank you for your question. You have identified the problem that lies with the police, so we have devoted ourselves very much to it all this time. A lot of efforts have been made to improve employment, and we have also increased the number of police officers performing operational tasks. We have been able to significantly improve the implementation of the human resources plan from 96.3%, as at the end of 2008, to 99.3%, which was 30. 6th this year. As far as possible, this is due to the employment of additional three generations of candidates for police officers, all of which is about 486 candidates who are trained as police officers. At the beginning of 2011, we are planning to employ another generation, but this decision cannot yet be completely complete because the final budgets have not yet been adopted and, of course, this depends on how much money we will receive. Taking into account the fact that there are currently selection procedures in the final phase for the recruitment of 22 experts to work at the National Investigation Office, and several other procedures for some others, we estimate that by the end of 2010 we will have practically fully implemented the staffing plan, which for 2010 amounts to 9 000 220 authorised police jobs. In addition, a number of organisational measures have been taken to improve the effectiveness and effectiveness of the police in carrying out their tasks. For example, a national police reorganisation project has already been implemented to increase its operational capacity. The next step, which is already being implemented, which will last a little longer, is to reorganise the police at regional level with a view to allowing for the greatest possible autonomy for the management, decision-making and functioning of the police at regional level and, of course, at local level. This will also contribute to the greater involvement of the police in the local community. In this context, within the framework of the reorganisation project, which is an extremely comprehensive and long-term project, specific problems have been selected and identified in particular phases of police action from this point of view. The reasons for this were then identified, and certain possible solutions were also indicated, all of which represent a specific measure that improves the work of the police. A comprehensive analysis of the workload of police officers has also been carried out and positive impacts are showing, the police's effects are high. The concrete analysis carried out also showed that the satisfaction with the police in Slovenia is still above the European average, as well as confidence in the work of the police. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u226	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Mr. Darko Menich, would you like a further question? Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u227	Thank you very much for your comprehensive response. However, I might still be referring to the 8th regular session when I asked you a similar question about police stations, what is the possibility of receiving it from the congregation? By the way, we are the congregation of Šostanj. We know that the construction of block 6 has now begun. At this point, there are already some 100 new workers in Šostanje, in the coming years we expect about 1,000 to 2 000 workers, and of course we are concerned about the safety of our citizens. That's when you answered your question to the General Police Administration. I don't have any information from here on out. But I would like them to listen to our wishes, and to help us with their abilities, for the safety of our citizens is first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u228	Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u229	Thank you very much for the additional question. I agree, security comes first, it's also the police's main task. It's true. I know I promised you a question. However, I am in such cases professionally when it is necessary to decide where an additional concentration of police stations is needed, based on the opinion of the police, this is their professional assessment and to date I have not received a proposal to establish a new police station. But I won't forget your warning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Mr Laszlo Göncz wants to ask the Minister of Economy of Mags a question. Darji Radic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u231	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ministers, distinguished ministers, ladies and gentlemen! Much of the trade and small economy in Slovenia is in serious trouble. The problems arise not only because of the general economic financial crisis but also because the country is burdened with the same or perhaps even more than before the crisis. Anti-crisis measures are directed primarily at medium-sized and large enterprises. In micro and small enterprises, the volume of business has decreased, so we have witnessed a great deal of redundancies and closures. Measures are needed to reduce the burden of a small economy as soon as possible. In doing so, I think mainly of self-employed, self-employed entrepreneurs and family and micro-enterprises, where problems are extremely severe. Many experts believe that micro and small enterprises, especially those with innovative products or services, can also be one of the pillars of the Slovenian economy and development in the future. Regrettably, many of those who have been successful in the market in recent years are now slowly developing, staggering or retreating due to these causes. Some economic and commercial establishments, in particular those with specific quantitatively limited activities, are prior to the closure of production or operation, which should necessarily be prevented. To this end, more appropriate measures or programmes should be put in place to support their development potential. In recent times, several family companies and independent entrepreneurs, including in Pomour, have found themselves in an unforeseeable position mainly because of the significantly reduced purchasing power of the local population, they have to pay taxes, social security contributions, rents, overheads and the like, which, due to the reduced volume of work, condition the inequity and the phasing out of establishments. I ask the Minister of Economy: Do the Ministry or Government have the answers to these problems? Do they have specific programmes or solutions that could be of particular interest to those companies with specific responsibilities that are already in a standstill? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u233	Thank you so much for asking me that question. The fact is that this crisis has in fact revealed the true competitiveness of our economy and also the true competitiveness of not only our large but also micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. The fact is that at the Ministry of the Economy, at the very beginning of this mandate, we have prepared a package of measures to help micro and small enterprises in particular in order to preserve themselves even during the crisis. However, in doing so, I must point out that we have made a conscious decision already at the beginning of the preparation of all programmes and also anti-crisis measures in order to help healthy companies. For those companies that have already come into a crisis in a worse competitive situation, we have found that they will probably not be able to emerge from the crisis. We have focused on promoting or maintaining development activities in small and medium-sized enterprises, which is exactly the area you asked me about. And in fact, most of our actions that we have taken over these two years are aimed at micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. And so we have essentially implemented a series of measures, and a number of measures are still in place. Among them, let me mention the development incentives for the purchase of new technology equipment that we carried out in 2009. Then it was already last year and there was an open incentive, namely guarantees for bank loans, subsidies, interest rates again for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, allowing entrepreneurs to obtain even more favourable loans in banks, not just for development projects, this measure also applies to the rental of liquidity loans, meaning those loans that would make it easier for businesses to cope with the current liquidity crisis. Then we have developed for those slightly more ambitious risk capital instruments that enable those companies that have innovative ideas to lack sufficient capital and cannot get it in banks to implement their ideas by means of venture capital. We then have the right for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises to establish a system of so-called voucher advice, whereby we allow entrepreneurs, such micro ones, who do not have all the skills, to receive advisory services to help them deal with a specific situation that they can turn to, where they can get certain development incentives. We also have a chicken training system. We help companies to train to deal with such crises. In short, several measures and activities have been put in place primarily for micro and small enterprises. And we will continue with these measures in the future. The problem that you face and are reminded of by individual entrepreneurs is that, above all, entrepreneurs from remote areas simply do not know and recognize these opportunities and opportunities offered by the country with their instruments. In this area, it may also appeal to the regional development authorities in Pomur to carry out this function of informing, informing micro and small entrepreneurs of all the options offered by this country. Finally, it must be mentioned here that we have a law on Pomour, which provides further incentives for entrepreneurs in this area. That's all for now. However, the fact is that all companies, micro, small ones, who do not have a developmental perspective, who do not see the path or the light at the end of the tunnel, will not be able to be saved or nothing special. Companies are all over the world calming down and, of course, new ones are being born. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u234	Mr Göncz, please fill in the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u235	Thank you very much for the comprehensive answer, but I'm still going to ask you a question. Above all, I agree with the conclusion that it is important to support healthy businesses and healthy cores, there is no doubt about it, as is probably the truth that information does not penetrate to the extent it would like to, but would not now touch on the law on the pomur regions because it is one other complex, but would ask two additional questions. First question: Are you monitoring the results on these options? In recent times, there has been a lot of resentment about this, and despite your answers, they are likely to be in place. And secondly: I specifically ask about specific small crafts, small companies which claim that they cannot be found in any of the prescribed measures, nor in the law for Pomurje. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u236	Madam Minister Radiceva, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u237	Thank you very much. I'm sure informing is the main reason. Now, as far as we're concerned, it's obvious that certain entrepreneurs can't get their hands on funds. I know they're coming, and we're being approached by individual entrepreneurs. We have a mechanism in place, and we are also checking to see if there are any irregularities. But I'll tell you from my own experience, because I actually want to do a case-by-case study of why, let's say, don't let some company get it, or if someone tells me that there are some irregularities, they appear in the process itself. We always come up with the right answer and those deliberate irregularities, if I may say so, are in fact very little or almost nothing. But the fact is that entrepreneurs also need to understand that for all the development incentives that the state gives, one quality must be ensured, however, as we say. Now many entrepreneurs believe that their idea is good, quality and that they will be able to survive if they receive certain funds. However, it also often turns out in discussions with counselors, experts in this field, that their ideas are not as good as they think. I think it is right, however, that our advisors also reject these entrepreneurs, because at the end of the day, if it is already known in advance that the idea will not be successful, that their company does not have survival, although it is difficult, I know, it does not make sense to continue to support such a thing. I can only say this here, we have successfully supported more than a thousand projects, and the fact is that we also reject one for various reasons. All I can say in this place is that we haven't discovered any major irregularities. But if you happen to have a case like this, please let me know that we can find something out. But once again, I understand your efforts, I also understand those entrepreneurs, but believe that we must also make one selection and support those we believe will be able to survive in the market.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Member Bevk himself wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, who is absent. Will you ask me a question? Here you go, Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u239	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. A respected choir! This summer we again faced the problem of the Polish May bug in Slovenia, which has caused great damage in agricultural lands over several Slovenian municipalities, especially in Idrija and Logatco and some other areas. Last year, the three-year systematic suppression of the May bug with barley fungi was successfully completed, with more than a thousand hectares lowering, for example, the population of the May bug in the Outback by 85%. Grasslands have become green again, and after several years, farmers have returned to normal food production. In July the damage occurred in Gora nad Ajdovščina on more than 30 hectares of grasslands. Unfortunately, we also found a large number of oars this year in the rehabilitated areas of the Idrija municipality on the Crnovrska Planoto, where the kebra flight was the largest. In these parts it's already falling apart, we're talking about a population of nine hundred to four hundred necklaces per square meter. In the spring and after the summer of 2011 these surfaces will be naked again, and the damage will also be recorded elsewhere, such as in Kobarid, Bovec, Tolmin and Čepovan. Unfortunately, the fungus with which we successfully recovered damage from 2007 to 2009, in Slovenia and even in the European Union, is no longer available because it lost European registration due to insufficient documentation. So it should be obtained only with exceptional permission, at least so says the Phytosanitary Authority of the Republic of Slovenia. It is worth noting, however, that, in the face of the already difficult economic situation in agriculture, farmers will find it difficult to finance any form of oppression alone with their own money. In addition, these areas that I have been talking about have also been affected by floods, so for example, on the Black Forest, some of the fences have been cut off from the world for several days. It shall also be noted that at least one remedy must be provided with appropriate authorisations to suppress this pest, in order to provide funds for systematic suppression or at least to compensate for damage or remediation of the affected areas. And of course, the State must recognise damage as a natural disaster on surfaces where it is not possible to act in any way because of the tendency. Minister of Agriculture Mag. I'm asking Diana jedan: How will he deal with the problem? Are funds provided to remedy the effects of the May bug in the next two to three years? Please, Minister Mag. The Jew answered at the next meeting of the National Assembly, orally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u240	Thank you very much, Mr. Bevk. You will receive an oral response at the next meeting of the National Assembly. The next question will be asked by Dr France Tsukati to the Minister of Health, Mr Dorian Marusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u241	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Hello, Mr. Minister of Health, and the rest of you are here! As I have told you in writing, the issue concerns the health information project. This is a project that you well know, since you were then Secretary of State at the Ministry. In particular, recent developments regarding negotiations with Fides and the overtime work of doctors and, similarly, the public have also confirmed the need to seek rationalisation in health care, to reorganise a wide range of health care and to find the internal reserves that they are. Well, there was 12 million, predicted, something like that, something that's probably going to come out of this plan, but here's project 136 million. If we tell a simple person what it is, he won't understand, but if we say in a medical language, compared to the most expensive operations that require, say, the longest waiting period, say hip protease, that means 25 thousand hip surgery. And since there are few orthopedics, by no means you come in line, this money means 180 fully equipped orthopedic offices with all the personnel of 10 years. And if you say that this is a very demanding information project in health, then let's see how many hours can be paid from these funds, because the material costs here are not so great. This means 540 highly qualified programmers 10 years. I doubt that this is such a demanding programme that it would have to be prepared by 540 highly qualified programmers for 10 years. I am very pleased when I read in the paper that you are preparing a revision of this project, because it is a strange project, also the anti-corruption commission made some very interesting suspicions this spring on the corrupt background of dealing with this project. So I ask, as I foretold — I am running out of time: Mr. Minister, what are you predicting, which way will this audit go? Is and to what extent the information project is linked to the SPP project, that is to say groups of comparable cases? The SPP is a system that is based on many others and so on. In short, here are some questions I'd like answers to.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u243	Mr. President-in-Office of the National Assembly, distinguished Member Dr. Cukjati, Members, colleague Minister, Ministers! Thanks for the answer. The e-health project was practically born in Slovenia in 2007, and unfortunately it only started in the late autumn of 2008 when the Government Service for Local Self-Government confirmed the project, but in fact the first step is not until April 2009 with the first public procurements. If it puts into this financial discussion or the dilemma that you have opened, of course we must open the project in the whole dimension by 2023. Yeah. In 16 years of age, Slovenia was expected to spend 133 million on information in health care, which was the project in the initial phase. Let me say that we are already earmarking about 5 million from compulsory health insurance for informationisation. But let's be realistic and go to those dates that are more real, this is 2015, when Slovenia is supposed to allocate about 67.5 million funds for this project from the start of the project. However, Slovenia has secured 24 million from European funds. What was the project supposed to ensure? It is intended to provide national infrastructure to ensure the establishment of a health information centre. It is supposed to monitor the introduction and education and introduce some projects because we both know that without them, health care will be difficult to continue its effectiveness and transparency. Among other things, e-procurement, teleradiology and a number of other projects which I think medical personnel urgently need in their operations. Audition. Since my performance, two audits have been made. One is in line with the request of the European Union to carry out and verify the operation and monitoring of the objectives of the project. The Ministry has already submitted a response report to this report, and we are still waiting. At the time of the launch of the mandate loyally - and of course I believe that information technology could work significantly in the field of the health system - I have ordered the revision of this project as a minister. We have received a report on the state of the project, on possible improvements in the rationalisation of this project. We have prepared an expert report for this audit and this will have to be addressed by the Council in accordance with the design of the project. In short, I assure you that I am aware of the situation in which the health system is located, at the same time I believe that information technology could increase efficiency, transparency in the health system and, in some ways, also represent an important tool for the work of healthcare professionals in the coming period. You mentioned groups of comparable cases. It's part of the funding model. This project is completely separate from the eHealth project, even in terms of funding. In the past year, a contract was signed by the Ministry of Health with the Australian Government for the so-called classification system. This will cost Slovenia €220,000 in five instalments over the whole period. At the same time, we will have to add, I think, about 10,000 euros for the so-called group. It is an urgent update of this system, which was introduced already in April 2003. Sometime after four years, this update did not take place and in recent years these activities have not occurred. This is a separate project from the second item, from the so-called health information item. If I conclude, we can open discussions on the meaning of such a discussion as you have opened, compared to either doctors, nurses, informatics, but I think the project is set up in the long term. However, the rationality and speed of achievement itself, I think, will, based on the audit and also at the hearing on the project board, hopefully experience further acceleration and somehow approach the direct users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Mr. Cuckoo, would you like to complete the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u245	There are certainly two different projects, although they are very connected. The SPP, a true set of comparable cases, cannot function without an appropriate information support. There are two questions here. Firstly, in the case of other countries in America, the information system is implemented or implemented with lower costs and overall programming. As I have heard, both groups of comparable cases and information in health care in software form are taking place in the German speaking area together. The Austrian Chamber said that they are too small, Austria is too small to introduce this on its own, so together with Germany and Switzerland. For example, Ireland went all alone into the information system, although it copied a lot from the English or Scots, but only 120 million euros for the 5 million Irish people. Here I wonder how the flow of information or connections is happening. The Australian system, which is copied into a group of comparable cases, is built on the Australian system and they are not regulated as we have international disease classifications, which is ours, the World Health Organization and, in fact, European. There will be great tasks for performers to translate or upgrade the entire software for themselves later on in order to organize the Australian disease classification or translate it into [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Mr. Marusich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u247	Yes, of course I'm happy to answer, but I think it goes into dimensions that are very little interested in everyone else, but here I have to fix you and you've gone a little. The Australian system, the American system, the Canadian system are all basically classification systems on the same basis, on the IKB qualifications, you just have to translate. When we acquire a new classification system in Slovenia, we only have to translate new changes with respect to 2003, and the Clinical Center will know. But we're talking about two completely separate things. I agree that it is necessary to discuss whether we really need our health information network or could look for other solutions. I agree that it is only necessary to look for such software solutions. The SPP is just one piece that will be very close to users, and I will also look at it as a minister. So today's debate, in 2010, on the introduction of the Australian, American and Canadian system, has already survived. We had this debate seven years ago. Slovenian profession, the top of the Slovenian profession has chosen this system. At the time, we had to translate the model and we just had to update it. I assure you that, on the basis of international standards, the so-called IKB classification, there is absolutely nothing different here. Surprisingly, some experts are so unaware of the classification of the IKB and are amazed at some of the diagnosiss given in some regions to meet them in this classification. We have concluded these discussions, but discussions will have to be held on whether to have a health network and how quickly to implement certain tools in micro-environments. I agree with you here. We also have many examples of good practice in Slovenia. I will look forward to bringing these tools closer to users, on the one hand to doctors, nurses and, of course, to citizens. That is why e-procurement solutions, a national list and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Ambassador Janez Ribič wants to ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, who is absent? Will you ask the absent minister? Here you go, Mr. Fish.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u249	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Dear Minister, distinguished ministers, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The Perni Lake, which is valid with its 203 hectares at an altitude of 260 metres for the largest lake in the Slovenian Mountains, suffered the death of fish on 9 July, which was later identified as a major ecological disaster with all its consequences. This affected the surrounding population most, who was rightly concerned about the possible worst and long-term negative consequences. In the wake of the ecological disaster in this lake in July this year, when 12 tons of fish died, he is Minister of Mag. Dejan Židan announced that he would set up an intervention fishing group that would be responsible for rapid action in cases of possible similar cases in the future. The Minister also ensured that the proposal to set up this group at the agricultural ministry would be examined quickly and thoroughly. I want to know: Is this group set up? What would it be like if there was a disaster like that in the summers of Lake Pernice? At the time of the death of fish in the Pernice Lake, there was an unacceptable transfer of responsibility between the inspection services of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the Ministry of Environment and Space. Even information has appeared that Dars is to blame for the disaster, because of the wrong construction of the highway by the lake. That's why I want to know: After two months of disaster, did you find out who was to act and who was responsible for the disaster? I would like the answer to this question at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u250	Thank you very much, Mr. Fish. Mr. Minister will give you an oral answer at the next meeting. Ambassador Iztok Podkrižnik wants to ask the Minister of Environment and Space Dr. Roku Žarnic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u251	President, thank you for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished ministers, colleague and colleague! Dear Minister, I ask you: On the basis of what criteria does the ILO issue an authorisation for the operation of the carriageways? First of all, I am interested in the criteria for granting permits for the operation of the Ljubno ob Savinja railway station. There is a lack of a good 200m sidewalk on the state road, which is extremely important for the safety of road users. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u252	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Mr President, honourable Members, Members and Members of Parliament! The Construction Act regulates the construction of all objects. The process of building an individual facility shall not be completed until the use permit has been issued. The role of investors for the issue of a usable authorisation shall be subject to a technical review carried out for that designated commission. The members shall be representatives of the co-rapporteurs and other experts designated by the official person of the competent administrative authority. At the time of the technical inspection, the Commission shall determine whether a constructed or reconstructed facility is carried out in accordance with a building permit, whether it is demonstrated from the evidence of the reliability of the facility that it is carried out in accordance with the building regulations which are mandatory for the execution of such facilities and the rules governing the conditions for the construction of buildings without built-in and communication barriers, or whether it is demonstrated from the evidence of a reliable facility that the prescribed measures have been taken to prevent or have the least impact that the facility may have on itself or in its surroundings. The findings shall be recorded and, if there is no problem, if all the conditions are met, the facility shall be granted a valid authorisation. However, when we looked at the official records for the last 10 years, it was found that the facility for which you are asking did not receive a valid permit. If you want, we can look at the records 20 years ago, but in the last 10 years of this permit there's no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Mr. Crossbow, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u255	I thank the Minister for the answer he gave. But I wonder what this means – that the bypass was built in 1994 and to this day, to say the least, does not have a useful permit. Indeed, this is mainly about the safety of road users, as it is a state road. This is where pedestrians walk, elementary school students go to school, and in fact today they have to drive them in Ljubno in a radius of 2,3 km or a few hundred meters by buses to school. I think it's catastrophic. Where is the development component itself, whether it is tourism or anything?Oh, my God! Above all, it is the rationalisation of these projects, which are placed in space. Because if we go back to doing this 200 meters now, it's going to cost five times as much as it would have cost in 1994, if it all ended in one step. But this is another, because this state road continues to continue to the Logar Valley and because we are now talking a lot about tourism, about all these development options, I wonder how all these areas dealing with this transport infrastructure somehow do not include these development components in all these projects. So, when the road was working on a new one, there were scissors in a particular area, but in fact they did not take parallel footpaths or cycling paths, and in fact the Upper Savinska Valley was one of the very great opportunities for the development of tourism itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Mr. Žarnic, have a word for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u257	Thank you. Just for a little while. The issue is that we can send an inspection service, and things will be clearer, and perhaps another issue needs to be addressed, for this department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Mr Marjan Bezjak will ask the Minister of Economy of Magi a question. Darji Radic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u259	Thank you for your input, Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly. Hello, Madam Secretary. Well-welcome ministers, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! According to my information, Prevent Halog d. o. o. from Lenart expressed interest in the extension of production in the Koro region at Radlje ob Drava and Slovenj Gradc. We would employ the workers of Prevent Global, d.d., in bankruptcy, but the government did not help or should not treat Prevent Halog d. o. o. as well as Boxmark Leader d. o. o. I'm asking: Does that hold? How will the Government take action in this case?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u260	Thank you very much. The Minister of Economy Mag has the floor. Darja Radic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u261	Thank you very much for the question and very short answer: this, of course, does not hold! In this case, I would like to clarify the following. Firstly, the Government in the case of Prevent has no jurisdiction to discuss who will be able to buy out any part of the company in bankruptcy. This is the job of the bankruptcy manager. What the Government had involved in the resolution of Prevent was involved in the part where it provided or prepared a model of support to interested new investors in the conservation of jobs and production in cases of large-scale insolvency in large-scale private-owned enterprises, with which all interested new investors were given the opportunity to obtain certain types of State aid, as is possible: either subsidies for jobs if foreign investments are a subsidy for foreign investment and some other types of aid for such cases. We developed this model on the Prevention case. There's something I need to explain here. Boxmark was the one who actually made the first call at the Ministry of Economy as soon as this Prevento story started, and showed and expressed interest in buying or engaging in the rescue of this company or in purchasing a business in case of bankruptcy – he called me. In fact, he was the instigator or one who gave me the idea that we should do something as a systemic measure for such action, because it is simply impossible for the Minister of the Economy to talk to all the interested parties who will appear or offer their assistance in all of the following cases. That is why Boxmark may have been the most successful in bankruptcy managers and managed to agree on this contract, but he is also now exposed to the public. As for this case of Prevent Halog, I must point out one thing: you know who owns Preventa Halog – owners of Preventa Global in bankruptcy! There's something I want to say here. Thus, in these measures and instruments by which we said we would help new investors, the Government has made it clear that this government will not help those owners who brought the company to bankruptcy in order to buy parts of this company. And maybe this was also the reason for the bankruptcy managers, and I don't even know if they've either made an offer to bankruptcy managers for any purpose, but I'm sure that was also the reason for the bankruptcy manager that they clearly didn't talk to this company, which, in my opinion, is also the only right thing to talk about a particular case. However, it remains true that the Government will not speak to each investor individually. We have developed a model, standard procedures apply here, a role needs to be given, and also Boxmark has not yet made any application for any subsidy, that we are on the clear side, but this set of instruments is exposed and for all cases ahead it will be considered that those who want to benefit from this aid will apply, of course they will be dealt with properly through the Commission and if their proposals and their assurance that they will maintain jobs will be sufficiently robust, they will be able to receive these assistance. Once again, those who have cooked bankruptcy cannot be involved in any state of aid.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u262	Mr. Bezjak, would you like to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u263	Thank you for your word. Minister, it was written in the media that Boxmark is actually coming to Slovenia Gradec to hire 200 to 400 people, later up to 1,000 people; normally, it has already been promised certain subsidies for people and so on. Isn't that talk premature? Secondly, I must stress this, also from the media read, that in fact the majority owner of Prevent Halog of Lenart is the German company Dev of Wolfgang. Are you not afraid that bankruptcy will also occur here from this very point of view? There are approximately 600 employees in this company. From Slovenj Gradac they drive around a hundred people, from Mura they hired over a hundred people, when they went bankrupt with Hungary they drive forty people because, unfortunately, there is no labor force. Because, in fact, the Prevention of Halog from Lenart, from the Slovenian Mountains, is connected to Dev from Wolfgang, it can also happen that this company can fall in the same way as it did in Slovenj Gradc. However, I must point out that no one wants this because the company Prevent Halog in the municipality of Lenart in Slovenski gorica means all the staff that is actually employed in this company in this municipality. That is why many more questions will fall in connection with this. I would also like to ask you, Madam Minister, because we will respond to certain questions for certain assistance. But there was no connection between Preventing Halogh; they were co-owners, but those capitals in Slovenj Gradc were lost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Would you like to answer, Madam Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u265	Mr Bezjak, I repeat: we will certainly not be talking with those owners, in any way connected to the bankruptcy of the company with a thousand two hundred employees. It is a private company and these people, no matter what happens – we can also take it as a kind – not yours – of a threat, "but we will move there." Yeah, yeah! But where do we guarantee that we won't do it if they don't feel good? We simply do not want such owners, and the government will not help them absolutely! Once again, the government has no direct role in the specific bankruptcy case of Prevent Global. That Boxmark was media exposed — probably because it was the first such case. I am sure that the following cases will not be discussed so widely, and it is obvious that Boxmark had the best offer, so the bankruptcy managers accepted it. It is clear, however, that he came to the Ministry to inquire before signing the lease and before he decided that if he did, he would also buy these things back, see what instruments and what measures that country could offer him. If anyone comes and they come, I have to say this, and we will not put it in public, we have said the same thing to everyone: such and such instruments we have, if you think they will make it easier for you to buy certain parts of the company in bankruptcy, this or any other, because this applies to all of Slovenia, these instruments are available to you. But once again, and I will repeat it a hundred times, and with those who have caused the bankruptcy, the government will not cooperate.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u266	Thank you very much for your answer. Here you go, Mr. Bezjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u267	Thank you, Madam Minister, for the actual comprehensive discussion and answers. I absolutely agree with such companies as we ourselves know what these companies are like, that there is really no point in cooperating. But once again, I claim that this company is strategically important for the Slovenian Mountains, that this company is not a company that would move production anywhere else, and that this company has been sewing for Mercedes several covers and these things at present in Slovenia. However, I absolutely do not want any practice on your department or on the government to go to help certain companies that would just use money, state resources, and in no way give production forward and employ certain people. Absolutely, not misunderstood, Boxmark I respect, they're neighbors, and they're a very successful company. I would like to hold a debate, a public debate, in the National Assembly, because this could also give us more discussion and actually prevent any future new things in the country of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u268	Thank you very much. I understand, Mr Bezjak, that you are proposing that the State Assembly on the Minister's response should hold a debate. We will discuss this in the vote tomorrow. Mr Anton Kolarič has the floor to ask a question from the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr Igor Lukšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u269	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Minister, ministers, colleagues, colleagues! Sports isn't exactly a common theme on our agenda. Although I am trying to bring her here several times, at least on the questions sent, I am a little sorry and sometimes I don't know if sport is an activity where everything is okay, so we don't have anything to say about it, or if we're avoiding it a little bit. Recently, the Slovenian public has been routing mainly investments in major important sports facilities. While I am pleased that we have built many of them up or set them up recently – here I am thinking of Stožice Park, Pokljuka with the Running and Biatlon Centre, last but not least Planica, Rowing Centre Bled, many investments in renovations of football playgrounds, from Maribor, Kopra and so on, but I hope that all these investments are in the good of Slovenian sport. Of course, I am sure that only good facilities can contribute to the future success of Slovenian athletes. These facilities must, of course, be modern, technologically advanced and capable of meeting the needs of both athletes and us viewers. At the same time, I ask the Minister, Mr Luksic, although this is not exactly his area, but it touches on his work. There is a lot of talk about the many irregularities that occur in the construction of this much-needed sports infrastructure, so I ask him and ask him for a comment: How does he comment on the anomalies that occur when these necessary buildings are built: from difficult land acquisitions, through difficulties with documentation and increased value of investments according to the initial forecasts to deadlines and, last but not least, the failure of workers to pay for the work done?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u270	Mr. Luksic, have a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u271	Thank you, Mr President, for the question. My fellow ministers, the remaining Members of Parliament, a nice greeting once again! The question is in place, and things are actually going in my area. The mandate has lasted for two years now, and in these two years I have had the opportunity to build a foundation stone for a variety of gyms, primary schools and kindergartens and, after one year in the agreed period, also to participate in the opening of this gym, school as agreed; and this is always nice. But the problem is in some cases where this is happening. We have, for example, an important investment in the Stasis Stadium, where some, because of the fact that the Commission has been working with the call for proposals, decided that the funds from the European funds are earmarked for this stadium, on a regular basis and according to the criteria in force, relate this decision to the anomalies that are taking place and which have nothing to do with the Ministry of Education and Sport and at least with the Minister. This is bad and swords after unnecessary bad light also on Slovenian sport. If we look at this stadium, we see that the public also sees this investment as necessary. Ljubljana and Slovenia needed such a stadium not only for top games, but also for recreational, tourist events or even for artistic performances. There's no doubt about that. But what happens in public is that workers are not getting paid, that the price of double value increases, and that is something that is unheard of and worth all convictions. Colleagues of ministers responsible for individual matters, namely for justice, internal affairs, are already looking for solutions to how these issues will be resolved by their competences so that these matters will no longer be repeated or limited. And it is right here that they also have the support of us, individual district ministers and, of course, the National Assembly. Therefore, I am pleased that the National Assembly also expresses this concern and concern that it will not be just the concern expressed by some footballers and other athletes. I think that Slovenian sport — what was the first part of the question — is on a very good path. The organisational structure, the policy of investment, the fact that municipalities are aware that the responsibility for infrastructure is with them and that the country is only building up these efforts in some small part, is said to be where ambition is, where they want to have a playground. In the last two years, the football team has built ten football pitches. The country has cooperated with a significant share, but relatively symbolic. To build gyms; now they are building gyms even smaller, modified, but also in kindergartens. We already have a few kindergartens with gyms. So this sports culture develops and continues even when it comes to investments. This seems to me to be good and is developing all over Slovenia. In fact, when we talk about Contingencies, some people have the impression that the Government is investing only in Ljubljana. Far from it! The funds, as Mr. Member mentioned, go relatively across all Slovenia: 14 days ago I was at the opening of the stadium in Ajdovščina, before which the government invested in the stadium of the Human Garden in Maribor, building the stadium in Koper and this in Ljubljana. Well, there's still investment ahead of us. For example, the Swimming Link finds that she was neglected. The swimming culture that we build in primary school, by making all students [[...]] [[microphone off]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u272	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Kolaric, would you like an additional answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u273	I am pleased that the minister also mentioned the problems of basic swimming sport, but that they would not be too specific. As he also mentioned the acquisition of funds through the Structural Funds, I am interested in: What is the system of control in allocating these funds and in the use of these funds? Did you find any irregularities in the last invitation to tender?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u274	Mr. Minister Luksic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u275	Thank you, too, for this additional question, because it clears or helps to clear up some open issues. It is said that 11 supervisory authorities are involved in the overall process of monitoring the use of European cohesion funds. I wouldn't count them all. The supervision is set up in such a way that it involves independent bodies, different levels within the government, different ministries or parts of government services, as well as European authorities, as well as the Court of Auditors and so on. The problem that has been raised here in public with regard to the invitation to tender for Condoms is, after the election has already taken place, the question has been whether the incorrect indication of the data, for the first time, exists and, for the second time, how this affects the possible annulment of the election. As soon as this came to light in public, we requested additional clarifications from the municipality, so on September 1st, September 7th, we received an answer and found on this basis that there was no need to revise the procedure. So the contract that is concluded remains in force, we are now waiting for a request that has not yet been issued by the city council, after the application has been issued, we will examine this application at the Ministry, then other authorities before the Ministry of Finance issues or pays the case, will be thoroughly examined there as to the eligibility of this application. However, the system does not in any way allow for the will of any individual or group of persons at the Ministry. The interest of all of us is that the funds allocated by the European Commission to Slovenia are being drawn up and that is why we have developed a system which is very demanding and which prevents anyone in this process from being harmed and unable to draw on these resources. There's so much public concern that [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] The government or the specific minister in this or any other invitation to tender has done wrong and wrong, not in the interest of Slovenia, is completely redundant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u276	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Branko Marinič will ask a question from the Minister without a director responsible for local self-government and regional development, Dr Henrik Gjerkeš. Here you go, Mr. Marinic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u277	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers! The Ptujsko field groundwater protection project dates back to 2002. He was formed a consortium of seven municipalities of Lower Podravje with the aim of comprehensive rescue and protection of water resources. The first phase is completed, in parallel with the first phase of the project, an application for the approval of aid through the Cohesion Fund, entitled Investment in infrastructure and sub-titles Disposal and clean-up of waste water in the Ptujsko Field, which is the second phase. The municipality of Videm and Grajen in the Municipality of Ptuj should not meet the conditions for the continuation of the financing of the second phase of cohesion because they have too few units called agglomeration. Dear Minister, I ask you: How could conditions change during the implementation of the project, since almost certainly the number of so-called agromelioration units was already known at the beginning? And the second question: Are the Municipality of Videm and Municipality of Ptuj familiar with further activities. Given the fact that a large number of funds have been invested in the project so far by all the participating parties, it would be very strange not to say unusually that now that the first phase has been carried out, the pipelines are laid down, the sewers are built to provide sources of co-financing for cleaning facilities in these two areas, i.e. the pipelines are built. Built and Municipality of Videm, we are running out of so-called units. This raises questions about the financing of these projects by means of cohesion funds, which would result in insurmountable consequences as these two areas would be excluded from further construction, i.e. the second phase.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u278	Mr. Minister Gjerkesh, please have a word for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u279	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! The mentioned waste water disposal and treatment project in the Ptujsko Field area was initially divided into two stages due to the different stages of preparedness. The first phase shall be financed by the Cohesion Fund from the Financial Perspective 2004-2006. The project is in the final stage of implementation. The second phase of the project is intended to co-finance the Cohesion Fund under the operational programme ROPI, i.e. the development of environmental and transport infrastructure for the period 2007-2013. The scope of the investment from the Ministry of Environment and Space, which as an intermediary body is responsible for the implementation of environmental policy under the OP ROPI, is agreed. Thus, the application for support from the Cohesion Fund in addition to the municipalities participating in the Ptuj field project is an application. The revised role at the Ministry of Environment and Space is expected in September 2010 and at the Office of the Government for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy, which we are the managing authority, we expect to receive a coordinated role in the last quarter of this year. Your question about the revised criteria concerns the amendments to the European Regulation. Indeed, the criteria for selecting operations between Cohesion Fund projects from 2004 to 2006 are not the same as those from the 2007-2013 programming period. This is in line with European Regulation 1083/2006 and repealing Regulation 1260/1999, which was the basis for the decision of the OP ROPI Supervisory Committee in December 2007, which adopted the so-called criteria for selecting operations financed by the Cohesion Fund. It also states that in the area of decommissioning and cleaning of municipal waste water, the project must meet or meet the criteria, I quote, "all solutions to the problem of decommissioning and cleaning of waste water in the area of settlements with a burden of more than 2,000 population units". Therefore, the criteria for selecting operations in the area of decommissioning and treatment of municipal waste water have not changed since 2007-2013.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u280	Thank you very much. Mr. Marinic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u281	Thank you very much for your answer. I understand him, but I'm asking a different question. It is therefore a matter of amending the European regulation that has changed these conditions. Now I'm asking the question. Therefore, I am pleased to see that both the respective ministers involved in these matters – including the Minister for Environment and Space and undoubtedly your colleagues – with the Municipality of Vid and with this work of the Municipality of Ptuj, with the project manager who leads the whole matter at the level of the entire consortium to ensure that you are all working well together. I would really like to appeal to both the relevant ministers and your co-workers, who will be put to the test in the future, how to solve the potential loss of the possibility of further cooperation in European funding, because we know that the budgets of the municipalities are not so extensive that they can overcome the financing of such demanding projects, and this would be a great loss for the huge funds that have been invested in this project so far. What would happen? It would happen that there is sewerage in these two areas, but there is no money for cleaning plants, because a certain number of so-called units have to be filled in. In this case, I appeal once again to both ministers to help these municipalities, and indirectly to citizens, to provide in some way these necessary resources, and thus to complete the project at a second stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u282	Thank you very much. You want an answer, Mr. Gjerkesh? Minister, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u283	Thank you for saying that again. Of course! That's why I'm here, which is why my colleague Žarnic is here – to help! I'm mainly in the field of local self-government. Where there is will, there is also a little more resources. Now, if it turns out that the boundaries between the Cohesion Fund and the OP ROPI and the development of the regions have led to such differences compared to the previous project that some projects are no longer feasible, it is necessary to sit down and find a solution. I think that we have still found solutions to the problems, including those that have been explicitly different, but that some rules can be interpreted in such a way that everything is still right, but that the matter is nevertheless, or any project, properly implemented. I have no doubt that we will find solutions in this case as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u284	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mag. Franz Znidaršič will ask the question of the Member of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Samuel Žbogar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u285	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear ministers, colleague and colleagues! On 2 February 1994 and 2 April 1996, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia ordered the Government to immediately open negotiations with the Federal Republic of Germany as the successor to the occupying German Reich for the payment of reparations or war damage caused in World War II. We have not seen reports of such activities that should reach the National Assembly in three months. There is a fear that there was no necessary activity at the time. On 5 May 2002, the Government ordered the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs to define this issue together with the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of the Economy and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Ministry of Labour shall cooperate with the above-mentioned 2. 6. In 2003, the Government adopted the following position that the agreement on compensation for the intangible and material damage caused by the occupier in 1941-1945 on our soil is not concluded in relation to the Federal Republic of Germany. Therefore, the issue of the payment of material compensation to the victims of World War II remains open. And the second conclusion is to relaunch the work of the Interdepartmental Commission of the Government to deal with war damage issues. This committee was ordered to examine this issue and to propose further activities to the Government. On the relatively many questions raised by several members of the National Assembly after that year, we have never received concrete answers to the question of when, what, and how attempts have been made to start negotiations on this subject. In response to my last question, it was only the opinion that, despite the continued and consistent efforts of the Republic of Slovenia, including the intense diplomatic activity of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Slovenia failed to establish a dialogue with Germany to further address the open issue of unresolved war damage. That is why I am again asking the following question. What has actually been done in these efforts by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and what activities has the Ministry carried out since 2003? At what level did the Ministry, in accordance with the powers of the Government, try to establish the necessary dialogue to open negotiations? Who, when, where, and how did he carry out these completely unsuccessful experiments? And finally: Can the Ministry provide written answers or prove by means of documents that the Republic of Germany rejects dialogue on this subject? Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u286	Thank you very much. Mr Samuel Žbogar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Mr Member, I will answer this question in three parts and I will answer a little more broadly than you have asked, and in the last part in particular what you are asking. The first part is Slovenia's relations with Germany, because all of these issues also fall within a framework, and this is bilateral relations between Slovenia and Germany, which are all from independence, when we had German support, to date very good or partner, ally. Germany is our political ally, our political partner in the European Union, we have similar views, we have an identical view of what is happening within the European Union, as well as of what is happening in the international community or of the problems in the international community. Germany is our largest economic partner and an important investor in Slovenia. This is kind of a framework in which we are also looking for answers to the questions you are asking. The second part of the question, the second part of the answer, would be to tie purely to the historical circumstances with which, I know, you are very well aware, but I would like to repeat them that there has never been a peace treaty between Germany and the Allied Forces, and so there has never been an agreement on reparations for the war damage caused by Germany at that time. The main reason was then mentioned — in particular the existence of two German countries. But even when there was a merger of two German states, there were no clauses to establish such peace reparations. Thus, there is no legal basis for Slovenia to require this, except in bilateral talks or in some bilateral agreement with Germany. In 2000, as you well know, Germany founded the Memorial Fund, responsibility and the future, which paid reparations for forced labour to individuals who were forced to work and who received some compensation from it. The former Yugoslavia, which had concluded this repeatedly mentioned agreement with Germany, usually Tito-Brandt of 1974, under which Yugoslavia received a favourable loan, does not have any clauses relating to the military reparation or settlement of Germany's obligations to Yugoslavia, although it was precisely Germany that referred to that agreement several times, that agreement, Tito-Brandt, as some way of addressing all its obligations to the former Yugoslavia for compensation for damage caused during World War II. These are the legal circumstances you know very well. And now the third. You're asking specifically what we've been doing. You've already mentioned all these activities that the government has been doing. On the basis of the conclusions adopted in 2003, I would like to mention two specific cases that we have been able to find in order to say so, or to draw notes from the archives. There's probably more of that, it's definitely more, but I'd like to say two concrete ones, including with details of what's been said. In 2003 the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Rupel, mentioned the issue to the current Minister for Foreign Affairs of Germany, Joschk Fisher, on his visit to Slovenia on 12 March 2003. This visit is well remembered because it took place on the day of the assassination of the Serbian Prime Minister. At that time – I have here indications as to how this is recorded in our note – "has become familiar with Slovenian requirements and highlighted the fact that some categories were not included in the German Memorial Fund, responsibility and the future. Then Minister Fisher stressed that he understood the frustration of the victims of war-torn violence in Eastern Europe, which led the German government to make great efforts to establish the Memorial Fund, responsibility and the future by which they resolved the issues of forced workers. The German army waged a crime war, Germany tried to correct those injustices after the war. Opening questions about other categories would trigger a chain reaction, which would have a negative effect in the ZRN." And somehow he refused to discuss the matter further. On 27 July 2004, the current "Minister for Foreign Affairs of Wygl also raised the same question on a visit to Germany, raised the issue of compensation to the victims of World War II, warned that there were still some categories of people in Slovenia, after Fisher said that they were very detained to all new demands and that they judged that the problem of compensation was over. They reached an agreement with forced workers, history cannot be changed and similar requirements could trigger an unsupervised plasma of financial obligations for Germany". So these are two very specific answers. That’s all I’d do — or I’ll be in answer because you’ll probably have another question.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u288	Mr. Gniedarsich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u289	Thank you very much. The problem is, therefore, that Germany does not have any document indicating that this issue regarding the payment of war damage or reparations is concluded in relation to Yugoslavia or to the successors of the former country. That's one thing. The other thing is that I understand from your answer that it was a few discussions, and I even remember the comments on this topic, which ran so that we could talk about it over coffee. It's the kind of thing that "coffee" gets to talk, but the result is the way it is. I was alone in the delegation of the National Assembly in 2000 in Bundestag, where we discussed the law of remembrance, responsibility and the future and asked why we were not in the curator. And then they said that our country had reported just over a thousand and five hundred forced workers, and later it turned out that only the exiles had realised compensation for about ten thousand of their forced workers during the expulsion to Germany. Thus, this data points to the silent attitude of our country and our diplomacy towards our injured material victims and also to the victims of war violence. And the two Members of the Bundestag regretted that they had not known before what we had said at the time, how many exiles there were, how many hostages were killed and so on, because the law would have been different. In short, I am afraid that, at the level of a diplomatic note of a written request or something like that, our country has not submitted a written request to the Republic of Germany, not through the diplomatic representation or directly in talks with the highest representatives of the authorities, and therefore, of course, the matter has remained the way it is. So the Germans think it's over, we know it's not, but we're a poor country against them, and we could take care of something more than nothing.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u290	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u291	First of all, I only mentioned two cases, and there were more. In all of these discussions, the question was raised in this way, and this was also answered by the German side, but I think they are kind of exemplar as the talks ran. Now, if we say that this is going to be a "ob coffee" or if it was said "ob coffee", it wasn't meant to be pejorati, it wasn't meant to be bad. Actually, that means four eyes, probably. And in private, ministers usually talk about the most sensitive things or even the most important things, because the conversation is somewhat more relaxed and you can tell yourself more if there are fewer people around you. So this does not mean, in fact, that this subject was neglected, but it was said that we would talk about it over coffee, but rather that we would talk in private because of the sensitivity of the subject. I would just like to inform you that a meeting has recently taken place at the Ministry of Justice, where on this very subject, on the compensation of the victims of the occupying forces, the idea has also been considered to revive this interdepartmental commission, which you have also mentioned, to address the issues of war damage. Maybe even to think about how to move on with all these things.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u292	Thank you very much. Mr. Gniedarsich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u293	According to the Minister's replies, it is clear that the matter has a bad future. For this reason, I believe that it would suggest that the National Assembly should hold a broader debate on this subject, so that this matter can finally be resolved, at least on the inside, with regard to our views and our possible follow-up procedures. The problem is that the material victims of World War II expect a solution because it is the only thing from a half - past history that has not been saved. To this day, many have remained poor because of being demolished, taken away, or destroyed by movable and immovable property. I do not think it is good to impose any compensation on taxpayers, although, in this sense, in the previous mandate, a law has been drawn up which, to some extent at the symbolic level, would have recognised some compensation. I think that not only because of the financial and economic crisis, but also because of the principle that the consequences and damage resulting from the occupation should be paid by the cause. It is therefore very difficult to come before taxpayers with a law that would somehow try to close this issue to the detriment of our citizens. It is therefore right for the National Assembly to hold the widest possible debate to see what can be done. I'm not sure it's really necessary to believe that they're afraid of the effect of domination if they talk to us. We could be given some compensation under another brand, such as aid to victims of war violence, or social assistance, or economic aid. We could agree on this, as you said, in a four-eyed manner, but in some way settle at least part of this debt, which would actually represent a change in assets for Germany, but for us certainly a large amount of money, with which we could settle at least one part of the damage to the affected, although I believe that never in full and of course with much delay, however. In short, I propose that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure, this debate be held by the National Assembly and we will then see what can be concluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u294	Thank you very much, Mr. Znidarsich. Your proposal to hold a debate on the response of Minister Žbogar will be decided tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Member Guido Kres has the floor to ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, who is absent. Will you ask me a question? Here you go, Mr. Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u295	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u296	I apologize, two ministers, the Minister for Labour, the Family and Social Affairs. Here you go. You have the floor. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u297	who is present [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u298	The minister's here.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u299	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear ministers, dear colleague, dear colleagues! During this time of parliamentary vacation, when I met with voters, I also got a question that says, among other things: the situation is really difficult in the country, the situation of workers and workers is difficult, but the situation is also difficult for small craftsmen, which no one talks about, and also for farmers. I have a specific question, namely the sad story of the Slovenian farmer, my friend. He graduated from elementary school, continued in the technical direction, and completed high school without a problem, served military service, and at that time it was necessary to make a decision on the way to life. One, a child of a single mother and owner of a large traditional Slovenian farm. He was at a crossroads. He decided to stay home, work the farm, take care of her survival, and help her mother. They work hard on the farm, pay contributions, taxes, farm stays in place somehow, does not develop like some similar farms. He did not create a family because in the past, young girls did not choose to live on a farm, and today it is even worse. The years run away, the age comes and the disease comes. He's alone with the mother he loves, he has a farm he loves, he doesn't have a family, and he doesn't have any help. However, he has a lot of obligations with this farm, from morning to evening, and he lives, in my opinion, a very difficult life. Income is very poor and liabilities are large. And since life is so hard, there must be something worse, a disease. The mother has suffered a stroke, she needs professional care that costs 1,200 euros a month. He has a farmer's pension of 200 euros – and what now. She should be admitted to home care, but she can't be paid. In our country, we can talk about all sorts of sad stories. A great deal of parliamentary time has been devoted to discussions on the injustices caused to some over the last 18 years. No problem, we make decisions to solve many problems. But we can't find anything to solve such stories. What's more, we're abolishing the state pension. We're making it more complicated where it's the least necessary. Dear Minister! Can you two show me the way to solve such and similar stories and to solve Slovenian farmers and farms with similar problems? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u300	Mr. Secretary, Dr. Svetlik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u301	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, honourable Member, Members. Initially, I would like to point out that in the Republic of Slovenia we have a system for all citizens or residents who, because of their poor material situation, cannot afford to cover the costs of certain services, which in such cases provides assistance to the State or the local community. In the event of a need for long-term care, such as in the case of the mother of the said friend, such individuals may, in the event of such need, apply for an allowance for foreign care and assistance or a subsidy of the service. In the cases described in this question, assistance may also be provided at home, under certain conditions also family assistant services or institutional care. In all three cases, the level of payment of the user shall be determined according to his material position or social hazard. Appropriate advice on an appropriate solution may be provided to potential users or beneficiaries by a competent centre for social work or by the nearest home for the elderly or the home aid provider. Social security services, including institutional protection, are paid in the Republic of Slovenia. In the event that the beneficiary is unable to pay the service, he may apply for exemption from payment to the competent centre for social work where he has permanent residence, which decides on the basis of the material situation of his family. Under Article 110, paragraph 1, of the Social Protection Act, beneficiaries and other debtors — those liable then family members, relatives — are obliged to pay for institutional protection services. At the request of the beneficiary of the service, the social work centre which is responsible for the beneficiary shall decide on the partial or full exemption of the payment in accordance with the criteria laid down by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. These criteria are laid down in the specific Regulation, which states that if the debtors cannot pay the full value of the service, they shall proceed in the following order. First of all, the beneficiary is expected to pay for the service. The beneficiary shall have the right to exemption from payment if the payment exceeds his payment capacity. The amount for which the beneficiary is exempt may also be paid in full by the debtor — these are family members, relatives — except in cases where there are no debtors. A natural person shall also have the right to exemption from payment if the payment exceeds his or her payment capacity and in other cases provided for in this Regulation. In short, the material situation of the beneficiary and the debtors is examined and, if this implies that this situation is so bad that it is not possible to pay the service in full or in part, then the payment is also exempt. In case of exemption, the beneficiary or the debtor shall pay the difference to the value of the service to the municipality. The municipality is already bound by the Social Protection Act itself for the payment or payment of social security services, since, under Article 99 of the Social Protection Act, the costs of services in institutions for adults are also financed, inter alia, by the Court’s budget, when the beneficiary or other liable person is partially or completely exempt from such payment. On the basis of Article 100b of the Social Protection Act, the beneficiary of a service applying the exemption from the payment of an institutional protection service and the owner of the property shall, by a decision on the exemption of payment, prohibit the alienation and the burden on the property of which he owns, for the benefit of the municipality which finances institutional protection for him. However, it should be pointed out that, in the case of this document, it is only to ensure that the claim of the municipality is secured to the beneficiary who pays or pays for the social security service. This claim may then be applied in the succession procedure. So no one interferes with this property before it comes to this case. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u302	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Guido Kres, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u303	I am perfectly satisfied with this answer. That's the answer I expected, too. But in the end, we come to the heart of this story. What happens when we know what the value of real estate on farmers is when we know how much it costs? I'll tell you, if this works out, then this young boy – well, relatively young, today is 50 years old – and God knows how old he will be when this story ends – what will he be left with? That's it. I fully understand and your answer is correct, quality, and on this basis I will also make it significantly easier to approach my friend and try to resolve this matter, and perhaps we will hear from you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u304	Thank you very much. I understand there was no further question, but just thanks. Ambassador Marijan Križman will ask the question of the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr Igor Lukšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u305	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, respectable colleagues! Dear colleague! One woman is also among us — two, I apologize to your coworker. My question is mainly towards a very successful investment made by the Ministry of Education in the Municipality of Koper. Together with the congregation, he acquired land in the area of former Tomos, built a very beautiful and personal school, and was completely completed. Although this is the secondary technical school that has so far been home in the old city centre in the impossible spaces. These were rooms, to tell you the truth, because I was there many times at the former principal's, in the rooms they had mice, rats, they had workshops, I think from 1950 or earlier, where the technicians and mechanics taught and so did others. I think that this is a very large acquisition for us, Kobrčane, especially because we have opened a school that also educates technical personnel, not just the other personnel that have been picked up in our country. Mr. Minister, in view of the resources and efforts you have invested in this facility at the Ministry along with others, I am interested in this and this is my question: Why hasn't summer been used to move to this school? What exactly is happening to this school on its own? Because we know we have a technical checkup, we have a technical takeover, we have all the papers, I think we're good. Many parents wonder why the school did not use summers as a majority of schools, for renovations, adaptations, and arrangements for all that is necessary for the smooth education of students, students and students. It's been available for quite some time. Investment, as it was said, has been successful, we are pleased, not only in Cyprus, but also wider, this is a school for the entire coastal region. I want to know: Why, despite such a successful investment, have we not actually experienced school life as planned? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u306	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Igor Luksic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u307	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you for asking. That story bothers me, too. That's what I'm going to tell you in the introductions, a hereditary story. The Ministry of Education concluded a contract with NLB Leasing to invest in this project in 2006, even during the previous Minister of the Beast. Then there was a suspension of this investment and we immediately launched appropriate procedures at the beginning of the mandate for the renewal of the contract in 2009 July. At that time, we agreed and signed a contract to conclude the investment on 1 September 2010. I was at this school at the time, it's old, it's long, it's important for our school system within the school network and, of course, especially for Koper. We all agreed at the time that this could be done by 1. 9. but then it turned out that some have not done their job and tasks. So the question was raised why time had not been used since June and beyond. In fact, this is a new construction, it was not necessary to wait here for holidays, but everything should have been done by September 1st. So not only did they get the license, but they should already have control. The Ministry only received the necessary documentation on 9 September to allow the team to see what was wrong. This team did this job and found out about some mistakes. Some school teachers are also involved in this work, so they are paying attention to some of the details they know about because they will eventually use this space and have also pointed out some mistakes. Now they're getting rid of these mistakes with the contractor, and there's something about these mistakes. For the time being, they note that no one is structural, it is said that the matter should be fully extended or that it will take a number of months. For the time being, it shows that these errors are minor and that in due course the colleagues will not be able to make a final assessment of whether this will be 14 days or one month — these matters will be resolved. I hope that this question will also help to ensure that all those responsible for this takeover and then the school are made available to students and also to the University of Cyprus, that this school will be made available and that all those responsible will be aware that they are now particularly under scrutiny, that they are also being observed by the National Assembly and that their task is to take over this business, which they have taken over by contract and which they have received in kind, is also to do. The Ministry will then, of course, watch and see how it will sanction, if necessary, all those who have not fulfilled their obligations within the contractual period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u308	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mr. Crossman.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u309	Please, Mr. President. Thank you for your word. Most of all, Mr. Secretary, I'm happy with your answer because you said the point. I am also pleased that there have been no structural errors. If that is not the case, then it is cosmetic and can be solved very quickly if it is willful, but if it is willful, it is probably impossible to save months and months. Even though your answer has been very comprehensive, I ask you very concretely: When's the opening? When are the students going to sit in the school bench? When will all those from the University of Primorska who received their space sit in the school bench? Havela beautiful.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u310	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Igor Luksic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u311	Thank you. It's supposed to be if you ask someone, then you give them a chance to answer. Look, I told you before, I can't tell you the date. I'd like to do it myself and I'd like to stick to September 1st, as we agreed with everyone who was there. Every day I am, and I will also be in contact with my colleagues at the Ministry, who are also in contact with the teams on the ground in order to speed up the elimination of all these, so far, minor mistakes in order to make this happen as soon as possible. Even before I came to answer that question, I asked my colleagues if they could tell me some sort of indicative date when we could open a school for students, they said it was hard to say anything. It seems to me that it would not be right for me, then as Minister, to be risking a date here, because I would be deceiving those who are responsible for doing business to the end, like students and teachers, to somehow set their expectations on a certain date, and then it could happen that it would not happen. In short, I will do everything in my power to make this happen as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u312	Thank you very much. Franz Pukšič will present the question of the delegation to the Minister of Finance, Dr. Franc Križanič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u313	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, ministers, nice greeting! Mr Križanič, given that an article by Danilo Toplek was published in Finance on Thursday with his fingers stuck in marmalade and that he has been several Thursdays since I asked you to release Danilo Toplek on 10 August this year as chairman of the NKBM Board Supervisor, the Maribor Credit Bank, for several reasons. I warned you in particular in 2007 when the audits were carried out, prepared by the company’s leaders and then signed by the auditors alone. I warned you that in that year the delivery method in Tallum — of all other companies now exclusively from Mercury — had changed and then suggested that there was a difference in delivery prices for an unnamed person, that is, a silent associate. Apparently, I had some real information, because I would not have interrupted the press conferences in the middle of the summer, either, and I would have warned you about the mess that was done by the Talum when the shares of the Ljubljana Bank were purchased by Mercury's property, but that what was in some private, secret contracts was being resolved. Mr Minister, at the time, I wrote that this is irresponsible of the supervisory board which adopted this report today, and I add that this is unacceptable and scandalous. Well, the president of the administration Danilo Toplek also responded and said that all business decisions were taken in accordance with the company's internal rules. Mr. Minister: Does the internal rules of the company or Slovenian legislation state that the director of a company owned by a majority of the country may operate with a company whose silent owner is? Have you, Mr. Minister, asked or requested any information on this and made any more serious inquiries as to whether Mr. Toplek is still a silent owner in any other society? Mr. Minister, how hygienic is it to be president of the Supervisory Board and, on the other hand, to be CEO of a firm that has large loans in this bank?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u314	Thank you very much. Please, Minister. Franz the Crusader.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u315	Thank you for asking. Let me answer that. So, in view of the allegations of ownership and conduct of the President of the Talum administration, mag. Danilo Toplek, Ministry of Finance, has only the information published by the newspaper Finance, where an unsigned contract on the regulation of relations in a silent society formed in SCHOP d. o. o. is published. So far, it's all about conjecture. In the event that the Talum's business may have been affected by the abuse of position and non-economic activity to the detriment of Talum due to alleged silent ownership, it must establish its supervisory board and initiate appropriate procedures. In such a case, there is a question of confidence in professionalism and in heart and good conduct, and in this case further action will also be followed in the membership of the Supervisory Board. However, as we say, first we need to check which of these is true and which of these is not true. Otherwise, the Banking Act regulates and sanctions the position of members of the Bank’s Supervisory Board in its 71st Article and provides that the functions of members of the Bank’s Supervisory Board may not be performed, inter alia, by a person who has a close relationship with the legal person in which the Bank — that is to say the Bank — more than 5% of the voting rights or in capital and who does not have the position of a subsidiary within the group referred to in Article 14, paragraph 2, of the Financial Conglomerates Act. If the Bank of Slovenia, which is solely responsible for overseeing the implementation of the Banking Act, has found that there has been any other legal obstacle to the appointment and operation of a member of the supervisory board of the bank, it may, as supervisor, request the bank's administration to convene a bank assembly and propose the discharge of a member of the supervisory board. Well, that's what this is all about. It's a cogent norm. In view of the above, the provisions of the Banking Act apply in a specific case only if a relationship is established with a legal person in which the bank has more than 5% of the voting rights or capital, i.e. between the NKBM bank and the company in which the NKBM Supervisory Board President is supposed to hold a ownership stake and is, according to Member Pukšič, owned by the Talum Supplier. I would like to make further clarifications below. Banka Slovenije may, in accordance with the Banking Act, in two other cases require the bank's management to convene a bank assembly and propose the discharge of a member of the supervisory board of the bank, if a member of the supervisory board violates the duties of a member of the supervisory board and if a member of the supervisory board does not meet the conditions for appointment. The duties of a member of the Supervisory Board shall be laid down in Article 74 of the Banking Act to monitor the appropriateness of the procedures and the effectiveness of the internal audit service; secondly, to examine the findings of the Bank of Slovenia, the tax inspectors and other supervisory authorities in the supervisory procedures of the bank; thirdly, to verify the annual and other financial reports and to draw up a written report to the assembly of shareholders of the bank and fourthly to explain to the assembly its opinion on the annual report of the Internal Audit Service and its opinion on the annual report of the Management Board. However, the conditions for appointing members of the Supervisory Board shall be that only a person who is adequately qualified and has the characteristics and experience necessary to control the management of the business of the Bank may be appointed as a member of the Supervisory Board and who has not been convicted of the offence referred to in Article 63, paragraph 1, of the Banking Act and the penalties have not yet been abolished. The situation is that in this case it is direct action; in other cases, it is an intervention by one of the owners if it turns out to be, but which requires a two-thirds majority in the assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u316	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u317	Unfortunately, Mr Minister, perhaps or perhaps what I said at the press conference at the time will prove to be true, given that the board member is also a member of the ruling SD political party, of course nothing will happen to him. Even more! Mr. Minister, you say this is about the papers published in Finance. If you have read correspondence with Talum’s boss, Daniel Toplek, writes: Warm Response: Schop has never been in any business relationship with Talum. The relationship you're talking about is with Mr. Bernharde as a natural person. Minister, there is no such contract. There is under contract 1 and 2, the relationship between companies, i.e. Schop and persons: only Majcenovič, Borut Bernhard and Danilo Toplek. They even went so far as to protect their property in these covenants; where and how, if anything, they were to do with them — wives and children. So far away! It says here that it's not true. On the other hand, a few minutes later, he admits, "I am a member of a natural person", but we find that the natural person is not but a society, and not a company that was a business partner of Taluma. So Schop had a majority stake in GP Ptuj, Ptuj Construction. But you know, this business, whether it's 1.3 million euros a year, whether it's in ten years, or whether it was, Minister, this business in those years when there were investments, and he just stretched it out like it's doing business now. As far as I know, this construction company in Tallum has been out of business for several years. Mr Minister, if we were to be right and if we really tried to stick to the predictions you're saying when you talk about reforms, when you're talking about honesty, work and so on, then we would do something right away. The data is enough and [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u318	Thank you very much. You wish to respond to Minister Dr. Franz Crucifixion?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u319	Thank you very much. Therefore, procedures are laid down and there is a set of procedures to be taken into account in order to clarify the situation in this regard. There has been some reasonable suspicion, I expect the Supervisory Board and the Ministry of the Economy, that is the Ministry of the Economy, to carry out appropriate control procedures, and then, on the basis of these procedures, the Ministry of Finance's call for membership in the Supervisory Board will follow if the charges for the real ones are made. Just like that, quickly, of course, we can't act.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u320	Thank you very much. Please, do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Pukšič? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u321	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I would like to propose that we discuss this subject in the National Assembly. An explanation of why I would like to discuss this subject [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u322	My friend Puksic, on the Minister's response, not on this subject.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u323	Yes, Mr President, of course, about the Minister's response. Thank you so much for warning me and taking a few seconds of my time. If that was your purpose, you obviously did it. So, the explanation. Looks like we're gonna get a new biggest tycoon on the Slovenian scene. Mr. Minister, a very serious question really arises: Is Mr Danilo Toplek, given that many companies came from the former TGA: Revital, Vital, Pralik, Kopirnica, Golf Invest Engineering and so on, a silent associate of these companies as well? Mr. Minister, the question is: Is it also possible for a silent member of Goja transport, who exclusively drives for Talum, who works several million euros a year? You're waiting for documents and papers that will be made. Of course I understand you, waiting for the gentleman to set up certain papers, in factories burning night and day lights and saying, according to the information, they drive files not in cars, but in trucks. Well, it's about cleaning up so you don't find anything. You're waiting for this, you're working, in my opinion, contrary to the oath in the National Assembly, which is your primary task. Or is it someone with special privileges, as we have identified several times in this country in the National Assembly. Just as one of the ministers was allowed to lie to the Slovenian public and is still a minister, as the minister was allowed to purchase some places for friends who have now been cashed and so on. This is also the case. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u324	Comrade Pukšič, please remain in the dark. In addition, my friend Pukšič, if you don't, I'm going to stop you!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u325	And I think we'd have a discussion about your answer. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u326	I'll stop you. You've got forty seconds. [[...]] [[a sign to interrupt the debate]] Comrade Pukšič, I would like to remind you once and for all to stick to the topic and procedural proposal you have announced – the first thing. Second thing: I want to lay it on your heart if you want to understand that you do not accuse people who are not in the National Assembly and cannot defend themselves against you, whether they are guilty or not. It's a question of ethics, not politics. And thirdly, leave the other ministers and ministers out of the answer you have. You have another 40 seconds at your disposal, and please sign in.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u327	Thank you so much for your ethics and morals, and that's why we're here in this country where we are today. Mr. Minister, they're asking questions and I hope you find out whether or not you will: Why was electricity paid through an indirect company if the Talum is owned by a majority of the state? And Mr. Minister: Why does 60% of the clay we're supposed to get in Impola come through Sweden? Is Mr. Toplek here also silent with these various companies? It is therefore essential that we hold a debate in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u328	Thank you very much. Dr. Luka Juri will ask the Minister of Environment and Space Dr. Roku Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u329	Thank you very much, Chairman. Although I admit that it will be almost difficult to ask questions after we have reached such highs in this past year. Anyway, Minister, let me do my best. In short, I want to know: Why and how have we reached a situation in which we have also included all inspection services – most of them under the auspices of your ministry – into a plan to reduce the state administration, given the essential nature of the inspection services in relation to the rest of the state administration? In fact, inspectorates by their nature should not be an additional burden on the public administration in terms of expenditure, in terms of wages mainly, but should be an opportunity for additional revenue. Because, inspectorates, in addition to, of course, monitoring and enforcing compliance with legislation in Slovenia, often do so by imposing justified fines, which also represent a specific income for the state. In this logic, on the one hand, we see that we have inspectorates who are highly fed and should employ more people in order to enforce legislation. On the other hand, if we had more than one such person, we would eventually be able to resolve the issue of state expenditure, i.e. pay to these people, because in fact we should have earned them by making justifiable decisions, which often take into account fines because of deliberate or unintentional non-compliance with the law. So: Is there any possibility that inspectorates would be excluded from the annual plan for the reduction of civil servants and would have a different approach to inspectorates? Have you talked about this with the Minister of Public Administration, who coordinates such a reduction? Can we hope to have more effective inspection services in the future, largely at the expense of the fact that we need more human resources-supported services? As an example, I'll give you an environmental inspectorate. According to my information for the entire Istrian-Kraška statistical region, i.e. from Kopra to Sežana, we have four inspectors for the environment. It is understandable that they cannot implement all the legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u330	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Roko Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u331	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President, honourable Members! Again, such questions, without anyone thinking they were agreed, are in great support of my work as minister. I've been asking myself these questions that you're asking yourself. Now that I have been Minister for some time, the answers are clear, and I don't have to agree with them. When I was at the hearing, I said that I see that in the country, if we want to function, we also need to have some control mechanisms to implement laws. I don't know why the number of inspectors is in the quota either, but it may be easier to answer the Members who are the legislative body. I can't answer that because you probably know the answers better yourself. The number of authorised posts for the Ministry of the Environment, as for all other ministries, is determined by a decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt a common staff plan. In 2010, the Ministry of the Environment and Space has a number of 481 jobs and a thousand 466 posts in 2011 in line with the one-percent reduction principle. The Environment and Space Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia has been given the following number of authorised jobs in recent years: 2006 – 187, 2007 – 185, 2008 – 187, 2009 – 195, 2010 – 195. I make these numbers on purpose because you see that the increase in the number of inspectors is despite the decline in the number of full staff. So we're not following the fall of one percent, we're raising it at the expense of other services. This is how we try to maintain the level of inspectors within the framework we have, and just recently we wanted to gain four new seats for completely new areas. Here you have passed the law on Triglav National Park – I cannot hire inspectors to implement the law. Here you have passed a law on genetically modified organisms – I cannot get two inspectors for this area. I think that the question you're asking me might be better if I asked you. You bring laws, you must, I hope you also have to take care of implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u332	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Dr. Luke Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u333	Thank you very much, Minister. More specifically, given that we are clearly identifying a common problem — how can you yourself now contribute to solving this problem? Is it possible for the Ministry of the Environment and Space to approach by supplementing the laws that you have mentioned, particularly in the final provisions, by applying certain exceptions to employment, or can you propose different measures? In these measures, I hope that the National Assembly will be able to support you – but it is not said that the measures are in the National Assembly, and may also be in the Government – but to exclude inspectorates, because, as you yourself have described, the situation at this point is practically meaningless. We adopt laws, but as I now hear, in other words, your ministry has no power, so there are no people to ensure that these laws are respected. So we didn't actually do anything useful together unless we add the final point to this i-ray we've drawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u334	Please, Minister Roko Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u335	Thank you very much. It would be a little irresponsible for me to say that we will not respect the laws. We're going to get those four inspectors, but we're going to reduce the number of others in this account. As you say: they are missing, they will be missing even more, so many will be removed from one job to another. And that's the problem. My opinion after a short ministry is that employment should also work projectically. Floods have arisen, and some measures will require employment — but we must not. The money from the Structural Funds comes up — no workers, no experts who can work there — it's hard to draw money. So the inspectorate's problem isn't the only one.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u336	Thank you very much. Ivan Grill will ask the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology Gregor Golobic a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u337	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. President, distinguished ministers! Doctoral studies are certainly a big financial asset for anyone who decides to study. In the past, a large number of such studies have been co-financed by the State on the basis of a call for proposals. This invitation to tender was essentially open to all higher education establishments that met these conditions. Now, on the basis of the changed way this funding is essentially allowed only to all four universities in Slovenia. In this way, you have already discriminated against a number of higher education institutions, which can certainly be top-level or even exceed some of the universities that are now under the auspices of universities. Let me mention something like that. With this you have already eliminated the co-financing of a doctoral study at Jože Stefan International Postgraduate School, at the Faculty of Information Studies, which is a university in New Town, and could also list them. That's why I want to know: On what grounds did you decide to change this method of financing? Because, like I said, you're going to discriminate against all those who are undergraduate, and then you're going to postgraduate in colleges that aren't under the auspices of the university. Then I wonder: In view of the fact that, according to publicly available data, for example, research achievements, according to the criteria of SISCRIS, employees in some colleges even exceed all those quality criteria for comparing colleges under universities, and in this way we exclude them? I want to know: Do you have any legal or other legal act that you have now decided to change this mode of funding and thus introduce this discriminatoryness into higher education? Thank you very much in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u338	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Golobič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u339	Thank you so much for asking. The co-financing of a doctoral study is due to a change in the structure of studies, the legal changes of previous years, after which a master's degree in science is no longer required for a doctoral study, because you know that we have achieved a completely different structure through Bologna reform. The old scheme, as you said, was somewhat co-financed, not because it would be legally binding, as required for the first and second rates of Bologna, but because of the need to support quality doctoral studies, it co-financed part of the tuition, half the tuition, some students. By the way, less than 60% were included in this old scheme in the last ten years when this scheme was in force. In 2009/2010, only 45% of the doctoral students were included in this half-school co-financing scheme. In colleges that opted for higher education than the condition, all the doctoral students, regardless of their social background, were placed in a position to pay full tuition all these years. This has led to the Ministry's reflection, this change in the system and also the shortcomings of the scheme so far, that the only funds available at this time – while we need to provide more and more resources for the implementation of higher education activities due to the transition to a new Bologna structure, for the financing of the concessional institutions, which have also been set up in the past years without proper consideration and consideration of the financial implications – we need to provide some other source of co-financing for the doctoral study and on other bases. To this end, Minister Zupan has provided €36 million from European funds, from the European Social Fund, with a specific purpose. We have worked very hard this year to: firstly, transform, redefine in a way that allows the co-financing of a doctoral study to allow the coverage of various scientific disciplines, virtually all, and in terms of strengthening higher education institutions as agents, to transfer the competence of the allocation of these funds to universities themselves. Why universities? Because doctoral studies are multidisciplinary in nature, because they are the highest scientific research work in the higher education system, and it is quite common that it happens at universities, in many cases exclusively in universities. The proposal for a new national programme for the development of higher education in Slovenia also foresees that a doctoral study in Slovenia would be carried out only at universities. We know that doctoral students have so far entered the system on the basis of the assumption that they will receive co-financing every year. Automass wasn't there. Only on condition that they have made progress and that each year the State with a special government decision has provided these funds have they also received this co-financing. Each year, however, they had to sign a contract to cover the entire tuition if the co-financing state did not provide it. With this new scheme you're talking about, we've entered this space, so we've allowed universities to decide autonomously what those top-quality doctoral students are, with the best mentors who will achieve these high standards. More! Under the existing two schemes, which do not separate the title at which the doctoral study is carried out – that is, young researchers and young researchers in the economy, almost 500 of them each year – this scheme will ensure that about 200 doctoral students are co-financed in full and also with the addition of cost-of-living costs, and about six hundred co-financing of half-school fees. In doing so, the co-financing of half the tuition will be provided as before for all those who have entered the doctoral study under this assumption. This also applies to doctoral students; we want to be more than correct, at higher education institutions which are not at universities, so that these students can, in the event of success of the study, be co-financed until the end of this period when the doctoral study takes place, so that they will not be discriminated against here.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u340	Thank you very much. Please, do you want to complete the answer? Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u341	Minister, with this answer, you have not convinced me that such a measure is meaningful and that it is not discriminatory. I agree with the fact that those who are now in this scheme will continue this co-financing until the conclusion of the study, but look, the doctoral studies are multidisciplinary, of course I agree. However, this multi-disciplinaryism certainly does not guarantee or cannot be said that it can only be done by the university. This can be done by any higher education institution or college that is, of course, supposed to do so. And I do not agree with the fact that you are now handing this over to the universities, all four of them, so that they can now decide which colleges within the university itself will be able to do so. Why not, as has been the case so far, give all higher education institutions the opportunity to make it clear, on the basis of an invitation to tender, which, of course, all these criteria can also be clearly laid down, and then the university itself can, if the invitation is successful, decide for which colleges these funds will then be allocated. Now it discriminates against those students who study or want to study in some other colleges that are not within the universities themselves, and despite what I have already said, the quality of the study is guaranteed by professors. And many professors who teach in such colleges, who are not in universities, reach higher grades or have more articles or points than they do at universities themselves. So this way is discriminatory. You didn't answer me either: By what act or law did you make such a change? At least: Are you also planning any changes to legislation or other acts in this area that would then also cover this legally? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u342	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Gregor Golobich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u343	Thank you very much. We have a legal basis for this decision. As I mentioned, co-financing of a doctoral study is not compulsory. The country is not committed to it, has not been yet, is not yet in the future and will not; this is true for the first and second stages of Bologna education, not for doctoral studies. However, it is reasonable and reasonable that the country, while taking care of the quality of higher education and ensuring that not one of the talents in Slovenia remains unused in the sense that it has the opportunity to develop on the basis of some recognition by the academic sphere, to stay out of such assistance or the possibility of successfully completing studies at this level. Such legislative changes were not necessary in this respect, nor will they be necessary in the future. As I mentioned, we are preparing a new national programme for the development of higher education there by 2020. It foresees that doctoral studies in Slovenia are conducted only at universities – public or private – and all four of them present in Slovenia are included in this scheme. Here we can disagree or agree on where the more advanced researchers are, whether this interdisciplinary can be ensured everywhere or not. But this is not important, it is important, and the belief in the ministry and also in the general public that the Slovenian higher education space is too fragmented, that it has been created in the past with too little imagination that it causes a type of problems and stems from the prevailing state of affairs, so we cannot plan for the future. In Slovenia, higher education institutions will have to think about their future; they will have to think about it – many who are independent – whether they remain independent or connect with others, either in the technology they talk about or in universities. We cannot force them to do so, but we can encourage them to do so. The public debate on this national programme is taking place, different opinions will be faced in these months, and in the meantime we would like to contribute in particular to the co-financing of quality doctoral studies. As I have already mentioned, by now almost half of the doctoral students have been without this funding, and I am sure that this scheme makes it fairer for everyone to get the support they need. Some of the other higher education institutions that you listed have already referred to us and have accepted the argument that it makes sense to find a way to further organise a doctoral study to connect with universities for the reasons I mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u344	Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Grill? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u345	Thank you very much. See, all of these statements, which I had the opportunity to hear from the Minister today, are partly true, I can accept them, and many of them do not actually reflect these conditions in Slovenia. I do not agree that such a national higher education programme would make sense, as you now point out, that it should be adopted and that some of the answers are in fact unconvincing. Therefore, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that this issue be addressed by Minister Golobic here in a broader debate, where we will be able to face all these different views and also arguments as to whether such a method of funding for a doctoral study is justified, meaningful or discriminatory on the ground. In fact, I hope that, on this basis, we will have the appropriate answers, which will also contribute to the change in higher education legislation and, above all, this national higher education programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u346	Thank you very much. On the proposal of Mr Ivan Grill to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology to his question of the mission, the State Assembly will decide tomorrow, on Tuesday, 21 September 2010, in the framework of the votes. Guido Kres will ask the Home Affairs Minister Katarina Kresal a question. Please, Mr. Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u347	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished Minister, distinguished colleague and colleague. It's been more than a week since the charges against the police and their leadership have been made public. They might even be overlooked if they were not spoken by a police union representative, so those who have to worry that the working conditions of our officers are the best. According to many of the individual police stations, the General Police Administration is expected to require compliance with certain standards and quotas for the imposition of penalties for traffic offences. Police officers are expected to be under constant pressure to meet certain strategies, literally forced to compete in the battle for survival and advancement. Not to be misunderstood, in the Slovenian People's Party we are even advocating the increase in driving penalties under the influence of alcohol and high speed overruns and even more strict control over obscenities and those who pose real risks to human life on the road. We know that the penalties are the direct revenue of the budget, and therefore it is absurd to think that the planned charging of the budget register by punishing citizens and citizens would be behind. The basic task of the transport police is still preventable. Madam Minister, I am aware that the Director-General of the Police has already denied all such allegations. I expect from you a detailed review of the number of penalties imposed or imposed. I am therefore not only interested in the flat rate or total amount, but in a more detailed analysis of the number of penalties imposed during your ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u348	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Katarina Kresal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u349	Thank you very much, Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament, dear colleagues! The charges that flew to the General Police Department are serious, but they're not real. Traffic safety is by no means going through the prism of increasing inflows into the budget or some statistics that are supposed to be related to progress. This is a serious matter, and we took it very seriously, both at my ministry and at some others. We've been flying it in three compartments, four different ministries. The first set is the preparation of four new laws waiting for consideration here in the National Assembly, which focus mainly on removing alcohol from our roads as well as a bold and speedy ride that causes the most accidents in our lives. Second, the establishment of a transport safety agency which has already begun to work and which introduces specific analysis in this area, and the treatment of infrastructure, whether it is appropriate, is not, or is causing traffic accidents and a specific new segment of independent investigation of traffic accidents. And the third segment, which is extremely important: a new way for the police to work, which is a direct negation of what you said in the first place and should be obvious to the police leadership. In fact, at the beginning of the year we introduced a new pilot project working in a cell area that does everything the opposite of, say, stopping at places where it doesn't matter and where it's not dangerous. Police are heading to cities where there are more traffic accidents, where road traffic rules are being violated more massively. After the first four, five months, we did an analysis of this pilot project, which showed truly remarkable consequences. The decision of the General Police Administration was to transfer this to the entire territory of Slovenia by the end of 2010. So that such a principle works for the police, focusing on problems rather than on the number of fines imposed, is transferred to the entire territory of Slovenia. As far as the data you want is concerned, there are a lot of these. The six-year police report is based on tables, different intersections and so on. I'm going to have a hard time summarizing everything in this place, so I suggest if you don't agree with my answer, I will answer you in writing, if necessary. But some of the general consequences of these first analyses are that one way or another you know the number of violations that are being committed. 7.4% are less due to all these activities and prevention, and so much less are dealt with by police. Inside of this is more than 50% of those violations that are worse infringements; either street-wooding, or too much alcohol on the road, or driving in the opposite trash. What has proved to be the most problematic and what we have also set as a priority in the fight against inappropriate traffic on our roads. And that the police's focus is indeed on the worst offenses, it also shows that there have been 37% more expert reviews due to the suspicion of driving under the influence of alcohol than there were a year before. The consequences are clear. By the first half of the year, 36% less dead on our roads, almost 24% less severely injured and 13.5% less injured. The results show that the police are not dealing in any way with the collection of fines into the budget, but go where the problems are and solve them. That is why I assure you that there is no direction, neither by the Ministry's management, nor by available data and guidance from the General Police Administration, that police officers should impose fines on them to fill the budget and perhaps make progress sometime. There may have been some such phenomenon that a case existed because philosophy had previously been fundamentally different in the police. And you're going to have a philosophy of work that's been going on for years and years, and it's going to be hard to change overnight, and it's probably going to take a while for everyone to realize that the way the police work is now different. But the current guidelines issued by the General Police Administration in the area of transport and traffic safety are that police officers must be directed to where there are many accidents, where there may be more violations, and where people specifically warn that there are disputed sections. So much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u350	Thank you very much. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar will put a question to Health Minister Dorijan Marusic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u351	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members, distinguished ministers, ministers and others! The question I'm asking you today has been asked by those doctors who don't care what happens to cancer patients. They asked me to ask you this question. However, this is because of the allegedly unintended spending of six million euros in 2008, which the Ministry of Health is supposed to have given to hospitals to use for biological medicines. After writing to the media, instead of buying the necessary biological drugs of 9.4m euros, hospitals are supposed to devote only 3.4 million euros to the purchase of biological medicines and the rest of the money is to be spent inadvertently. Money is supposed to be spent on appliances or wages instead of biological drugs. Patients whose biological medicines mean life expectancy or even recovery should be left to themselves and to seek information on the potential use of this medicine by various hospitals. If that's true, it's unacceptable and inhumane. Instead of taking responsibility, ensuring transparency in the use of public money and in the recovery of funds for the purchase of biological drugs in accordance with these funds, the media of the Ministry of Health and the Director-General of the Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance are summarizing the responsibility of the Director-General of the Institute to the Ministry of Health. That's why, Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you: Were the six million euros spent on biological drugs unintendedly? If the answer is yes, please ask for the following answers: How did hospitals use these funds, and what are those hospitals that misused funds for biological drugs? Who is responsible for the purposeless use of funds? Are they or will they follow measures against the responsible persons who will know them and what will these measures be? Will hospitals be obliged to return unintended funds used to purchase biological medicines? And: Will you make sure that care for cancer patients is more comprehensive so that they are no longer left to themselves in finding information about treatment options with biological medicines? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u352	Thank you very much. Minister Dorian Marušič, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u353	Dear Mr President, distinguished Ambassador Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, distinguished Members, Comrade Minister! Thank you for that question. Biological medicines are part of new health technologies, which are part of a strategy for necessary changes in the health system, where we strive for transparency, quality and accessibility. I thank the doctors who have given us this question, but I must admit that I have opened this story myself as a minister. Why they are not in front of me, you will ask all those who were in that position or in the corresponding positions of responsibility until then. The problem of biological drugs is broader and somehow goes back to the early millennium, so we've been talking since 2000 when these drugs came into the system and we've been doing them separately by introducing prescription drugs and those biological drugs that we use in the hospital. This is not the most transparent, so, as Minister, I propose and together with the Institute – I hope that they will finally only confirm the Regulation on the Classification of Medicinal Products, where all medicines will be classified in a uniform methodology and thus ensure accessibility for all equally. Another major problem is that part of this medicine is financed from the Treasury Department of Health Insurance, since 2009, works for 3 million from the Ministry of Health's budget. So we're not talking about the same problem as you did. We are talking about the three million that the Ministry of Health provides from the budget last year – for the Ljubljana Clinical Center just over 2 million, about 700 000 euros for the Maribor University Clinical Centre and about 300 000 for Golnik. The Ministry closely monitors the use of these funds, almost named after patients, and controls the flow of these funds. But when we talk about the issue that you have opened, it is a question that has been born and analyses have shown that there is probably a gap between the funds that have been earmarked in the general agreement through the partnership agreement – from the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, not from the Ministry – to the contractors and there is supposed to be a difference. I'm talking about 2008. On this basis, in July, at the same time, I asked the Institute to tell and explain how these funds were used and, on the other hand, to introduce the measure, and, following a general agreement this year, operators will only receive funds when they are actually used for cancer patients. The Health Insurance Authority’s reply was that they had been consulted at the Oncology Institute, which from 2005 to 2009, was expected to spend as much as 11.5 million more than the funds allocated to them in the agreement. There were no answers from other operators that were supposed to receive these funds, the Ljubljana Clinical Center, Maribor and probably Golnik. For this reason, the measure – because I am in favour of the autonomy of institutions – I will ask through the boards of institutions to investigate in these hospitals how these funds were spent in 2008 and perhaps later on deliberately. The third most important measure, because they belong to biological medicines in new technologies, is to prepare a health technology evaluation policy at the Ministry. Based on an analysis of the last four years of all programmes introduced through the Health Council and whether or not funded, this will be dealt with by the Health Council in October, we will prepare a procedure to evaluate, monitor, and determine whether any new technology that is placed in the healthcare system has actually improved the health of citizens – this is not what we have done in Slovenia – and then kept on doing so in the healthcare system. In short, on the basis of the breakdown in the funds used from the past, we have drawn certain conclusions, placed them in a system that will ensure this year that the funds will be spent only to the extent they were intended, and in 2011, we are counting, we will be able to monitor the use of biological medicines by department, by doctor and by patient and will be eliminated. I suppose, however, that the saints of the institutions will deal with these four hospitals or three issues of these biological medicines, as the Health Insurance Office has not exercised adequate supervision here.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u354	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mrs. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u355	If the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia has not carried out adequate supervision, then I think that supervision of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia should be exercised and something done. As far as the autonomy of hospitals is concerned. This autonomy should certainly not be such financial autonomy; this means that we could work with the means of purpose as it is appropriate. It means that they too should bear some responsibility. I would also like to offer you the opportunity to take advantage of the additional minutes for a more precise response. In fact, I think something should be done in this case. It is commendable, of course, that you think ahead of time how to prevent this in the future, and also that you yourself have opened up this problem, as you said, which is why the matter has probably come to the public at all, but what is expected, after things come to the public, is that action on things that have been done inappropriately. Those who have learned these things inappropriately should be the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, which has not done what it should have done, or are the same hospitals, should certainly correct these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u356	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u357	Again. The inquiry, or instructions, or in response from the Oncology Institute, indicated that they had spent 11.5 million more resources in this period until 2009 than the Institute had allocated to them for biological medicinal products. That is why, as I say, the decision of the Minister and the Ministry was to request reports from the Council of the Office on this incriminated year 2008. More importantly, it is important to focus on the use of funds in restrictive situations this year and on those patients who have also been targeted. Of course, the funding system is not ideal, it is not fully developed and it has certain deviations. I believe that through the worlds of institutions, by means of a survey with individual contractors, we will come up with an answer as to how and why these funds were earmarked. I hope that this information will also be known by the end of the year, but I am talking about 2008.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u358	Thank you very much. Marijan Križman will ask the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology Gregor Golobic a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u359	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleague! For Minister Golobic, I have a very interesting question that has been going on for quite some time; some people have forgotten about it, while others are sending letters, asking when it will be resolved that some have invested more in infrastructure and are expected to receive funds back. As I said in the introduction, it is a matter of returning the funds that have been invested in the infrastructure. The marriage, I think, was adopted in 2002, experienced three novels and the story unfolded somehow. I think most things have been resolved, but there are still a few things left. In my office, I have a few lists of people demanding a refund, and there are quite a few dead. That's how this story's had a beard for a long time. Some claim that the story is stuck on the side of municipal administrations. It was stuck because of whether the instructions were such that people did not understand them, whether they did not understand when they were supposed to report their claims, or whether they were in some cases too small a resource that did not achieve the censorship agreed upon by law. In view of the fact that the ministry led by you, Mr Golobič, has somehow taken this matter into its own hands, I am sure that this matter will be resolved in a short time for these few people who have lost their return. So I ask you very briefly and clearly: Are you monitoring all this data, all these requests? I would also like to answer the question: How many exact claims for reimbursement have arrived — if you have them, of course? How many were rejected? How many are expected? In view of the fact that the case was taken over by the Court: Will the funds be sufficient for all the reimbursements that are still open? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u360	Please, Minister Gregor Golobich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u361	Thank you so much for asking. It's actually an old story, more novelties of marriage. In fact, the aim of all the novelties was to accelerate, simplify return procedures and also to set a deadline for the preparation of these proposals for written settlement. Since last year, the Ministry has been involved in the Directorate for Electronic Communications, which has been professionally monitoring developments in the field of the implementation of this law, at the beginning of the Ministry of Information Society. However, the supervisory role of the implementation of the law is at the Ministry and the Ministry has been addressed over a hundred requests for the intervention or exercise of supervisory law during this period; the reasons are different, among others perhaps to highlight one that has appeared several times and is still a problem today. In fact, the congregations returned the same amounts to all beneficiaries. However, the law, you know, has indicated that it is necessary to obtain shares that are proportionate to the investment of specific persons. This is something that is causing some problems today. Currently, 14 cases have been supported in 11 municipalities, and nine municipalities have already been proposed to carry out a criminal procedure to remedy the situation. In short, the Directorate monitors, detects irregularities and intervenes where it can. As far as the data is concerned, you know that the addressee is the Attorney General's Office and to this day 40 thousand 62 applications have been filed there. Of these, 24 thousand 742 were resolved, including these rejections, which means that only 46 applications have been resolved. Settlements that have been concluded to an extent today amount to EUR 188 million,549 thousand,515. So much money has already been paid by the Slovenian Compensation Society. It is estimated that there are open cases for around 10 to 12 million euros, so that the number will eventually stop somewhere around 200 million. Since you haven't asked me about this opinion, I won't say it either. With regard to funds: you know that some more than 650 thousand Telekom shares were transferred in this sense, d.d., of course, there was an assumption of how much these refunds would have been, and it also stemmed from the current market value of Telekom, which is now lower, which is always at the heart of your question than it was then, but this does not affect this obligation arising from the law. If this transferred number of shares is not sufficient, then additional funds must be provided to the Court by transfer of financial and real property and vice versa, if it were to be too much, it is the Court’s duty to return this to the Republic of Slovenia.This mechanism has been incorporated into several articles of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u362	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mr. Crossman.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u363	Please, Mr. President. Thank you for your word. First of all, I must thank you for a truly very comprehensive answer. All those, I suppose, who are affected to this point, are listening to this and I will also send them this answer, so I really thank you, because everything you have said is the essence of the whole thing. The numbers, the money, and how much more. So these are the dimensions that aren't that big, but it's also worth closing. Therefore, Minister, allow only one more very specific question. Since you really have all the information, I am now interested in your opinion: In what time do you suppose that we could complete these few cases without major complications? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u364	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u365	I'm afraid I won't be able to answer exactly. If we compare these quantities, this volume, i.e. more than 40,000 applications and 46 others left open at this point, it is to be expected that this will be completed in a reasonable time. It is always so, even in the process of denationalisation, we see that the toughest nuts remain in the end. This should not, in fact, be because it is a matter of properly carrying out the procedures, carrying out the work of the municipalities and ensuring that, on a relationship between the municipalities, the defence and the audit at the Ministry or in the competent services of the Directorate, the execution of what the law does. I am so sure, given this relatively small remainder, I agree, in terms of scope and matters and in a valuable sense, in general, given the overall scale that is in fact extremely large, it would be difficult to talk today about 200 million returns if today it were on the agenda or otherwise, as it was probably then. But all of this shows that we will finish this chapter in due course, but of course each case will have to be solved individually. There is no general solution here, because in any case it is necessary to act on the letter of the law, but the defence has to keep an eye on it. And the sooner they get together, when these settlements are concluded, the moves are also on the part of the congregations, the sooner things are done. The Ministry here is trying to assist in the conclusion of these matters as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u366	Thank you very much. Dr László Göncz will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food mag. To Diane jedan, who's gone. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u367	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Despite the absence of the Minister, I will ask you a question and ask you to answer the question orally at the next meeting of the National Assembly. The extremely difficult situation of agriculture in Pomurje, especially in Gorička, further complicates the damage caused by the game. This damage is present despite the fact that much has been pointed out that various measures have been taken — unfortunately, the situation is not improving. Even now, in the fall season, farmers warn that the matter has become quite acute. In particular, deer and wild pigs are the ones that cause the greatest harm, and the exact number of these are increasing. They cause damage to meadows, fields, orchards, and forests, which is very bad. As compared to previous years, the damage has increased. Farmers are of the view that in fact this damage is even greater than it is noted because the difference is that the estimates are already found before they are actually found in the crop. Some farmers estimate that this difference is likely to be even 40%. The damage in the forests is even greater than in agriculture. The Wildlife and Hunting Act provides that the operator shall be liable for the damage caused by game hunting or hunting for specific purposes in agricultural and forestry cultures, irrespective of guilt. This is particularly problematic in this area, since farmers on their own land, their crops, must protect their crops from the wild which is in the "last" of the country or the hunting family. The co-financing of damage prevention measures shall be carried out on the basis of calls for proposals to co-finance the purchase of so-called electricity grids and grazing appliances with a view to preventing further damage, which has not achieved the desired effect. The affected once again propose a solution with permanent obstruction of agricultural or forest areas with a high network that will be an effective and less disruptive factor in nature. I ask the minister: Do they support these solutions within the Ministry, or do they have other systemic proposals to address this, unfortunately for too long? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u368	Thank you very much. The Minister will respond to the next regular session. Dr. Luka Juri will ask the question of the Minister of Health, Dorian Marusic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u369	Say good-bye again! Hello, Minister! Very briefly. The Health and Health Insurance Act lays down the conditions under which children may enjoy compulsory rights and since children are, as a consequence, additional health insurance. In short, these rights can be enjoyed when their parents or caregivers take care of their health insurance. Although justice, as I have already said, is largely ensured in children. Even if parents only have basic health insurance, children who are provided only with basic health insurance can also benefit from supplementary health insurance services without any allowances. So far, so good and good, as long as the parents take care of the health insurance. Parents are usually insured because they are employed, or in the case of unemployed parents, they are provided with health insurance through congregations or through the employment agency. As a result, children are also provided with health care in these cases. However, we do know cases where parents do not know, and in many cases they do not. So when these parents are not in health insurance and do not even arrange basic health insurance, there is a dilemma and there is a question of what happens to the children of these parents. According to the law, according to the basic reading of the law, these children are, as a result, without rights from basic and, as a consequence, additional health insurance. After all, this is not a consequence of their irresponsibility, for as a minor, they do not answer for it alone, but of the irresponsibleness or inability of their parents to handle it. Minister, that's why I'm asking you: Is it true that the law does not provide for some guardians, even in these cases, that children are actually unprotected and that they do not have to enjoy basic and additional health insurance rights? And if that's true: How can this situation, of course, be regulated by legislative change? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u370	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u371	Dear Mr President, honourable Member of the Council, Dr. Yuri, honourable Members! In fact, this is a rejection in the law. But let me do a little bit of orbiting on how children's health insurance is arranged. In Slovenia, all are insured under Article 20 of the Health and Health Insurance Act, which provides for family members who are insured by an insured person. These are children and spouses or extramarital partners. The law further provides that a child who is not himself an insured person or who is a medically insured person as a family member until the age of 15 or the age of 18, then only if he is a regular school student up to the age of 26. It's arranged for these groups. The problem arises when we have children of parents who carry out their own activities: farmers, pensioners, foreigners, those who are educated in Slovenia; persons who pay their own contributions to compulsory health insurance. In cases where these persons do not settle the obligation to pay their contributions, they shall also retain their right to health services and compulsory health insurance benefits and shall only apply emergency treatment. Therefore, where these persons belonging to this category do not pay contributions to compulsory health insurance, they also have an impact on the health insurance of children who are offered only emergency health insurance at that time. Of course, this is not the right arrangement. I'm aware of that as a minister myself. I've been in meetings with the Ombudsman, and we've opened up this issue. Therefore, in the concerns of the Health Care Act, health insurance provides for an amendment that will automatically include all children under the age of 18 or 26, if they are regularly educated and living in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, in compulsory health insurance, whether they have parents or guardians who are insured under Article 22, or that these children are insured as family members. In short, the status of children would be independent of parental insurance. In addition, the law provides for a broader definition of new substantively similar categories of insurers in order to determine their contribution bases in a way that will ensure equal access to health services for all and also solidarity in the payment of contributions, i.e. the establishment of a contribution rate in accordance with the health rights enjoyed by insurers from the health insurance system. In short, the problem you've been alerting us to is familiar. In the problems of the law we foresee a change that will regulate accessibility to health care for all children as we expect everyone in Slovenia and also in accordance with our basic values.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u372	Do you have a request for an additional reply from the minister? Mr. Dr. Luke Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u373	Thank you very much, Minister. If I understand correctly, your thinking goes in the same direction as mine; therefore, that the status of the child’s insured status no longer depends on how the parents are insured, but is, according to the household word, insured by 26 years of age, if the school or insurance ceases first if the status is different. Before you answer me – I see that it is probably positive that we understand each other – let me thank you for staying with us until this late hour.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u374	Thank you very much. That's his job, by the way. Would you like some more? Janez Ribič will ask the Minister of Transport, Dr. Patrick Vlačič, who is absent. Would you like to ask an oral question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u375	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly! I'm glad you're friends with me from the Slovenian People's Party, otherwise you'd be alone. A tragic accident at the unprotected railway crossing in Ranca near Pesnica, where two lives died in August this year, is new evidence that the problem of unprotected railway crossings in the Republic of Slovenia needs to be addressed as soon as possible. I therefore ask the distinguished minister: What has been done in his mandate so far on this issue? How many unsecured railway crossings in the Republic of Slovenia have decreased in his mandate? When will all such railway crossings be adequately secured? In fact, a tragic accident is new evidence that three unprotected railway crossings in the municipality of Pesnica must be arranged as soon as possible. There is an old Vienna–Maribor international railway line, Ljubljana–Trieste, which is used by fast trains. All of this requires modern, automated protection of railway crossings so that similar accidents do not occur. I want to know: When will these three railway crossings be adequately secured? I'd like an answer at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-20-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u376	Thank you very much. To the Prime Minister, ministers, I thank the ministers for the answers given. I hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue tomorrow, on Tuesday 21 September 2010, when the National Assembly will decide on the proposed decisions in the framework of the votes. I am also adjourning the 20th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 10 a.m. tomorrow. Good night.
