ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Izredna-31.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 31st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I have not received additional apologies from Members and Members for this meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda for the 31st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda with reference to 22. Ten. 2010 I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you received by reference. We're moving to the vote. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 51 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 31st Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, that is to say, on the contrary, a proposal for the adoption of the authentic reasons for the first resignation in relation to the second paragraph 41.B of the Health Service Act. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was submitted by Member Cvetka Zalokar Orazem to the National Assembly. With regard to this proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation, the Health Committee proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation be rejected. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Ljub Germić. Please, Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Izredna-31.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Mr. Minister with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! The Health Committee is at its 16th emergency session. Ten. 2010 as a parent working body, the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the first paragraph in conjunction with Article 41b, second paragraph, of the Medical Service Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly by the Zalokar Orazem Group Zares with the first signed Mrs. Cvetko Zalokar Orazem. Representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service, the Ministry of Health, the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia, the FIDES and the Association of Directors of Slovenian Hospitals also participated. The members of the Committee received a proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation, a request from the Reale Group for an urgent meeting of the Committee, an opinion from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service. In its opening statement, Cvetka Zalokar Orazem pointed out that they had decided to submit an authentic explanation for the uncontrolled situation in health care, especially because doctors on the proposal of the FIDES union had begun withdrawing their consent to work overtime or on duty. By adopting the amendment to the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System, which requires a change in overtime payments, these payments and conditions have, in the opinion of doctors, changed to their detriment. In early September, the public was informed of various interpretations of the work of doctors over full-time. The issue of the harmonisation of the two laws, namely the Medical Service Act and the Labour Relations Act, was raised, and therefore the Group considered that, due to a better understanding of the law and a solution to the situation, an authentic explanation should be adopted. Mrs Špela Maček Gustin, representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, stressed in her explanation that there is no need for an authentic explanation, as the provisions which are made clear by this proposal are not doubtful that they need a quality explanation as authentic. In its opinion, the legislature also found that the authentic interpretation would be inadmissible even because it would amend the provisions covered by the proposal. In its proposal for authentic interpretation, the applicant did not explain or mention that there is a very similar provision in our legal order, namely Article 52b of the Health Act. In view of the interpretation principle that a later law repeals an elder if it is the same relationship and has a different content, the question is therefore raised as to whether the proposed authentic interpretation is even included in the right provision. Finally, the Legislative and Legal Service reiterated the view that the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was not appropriate because an authentic interpretation of the provision was not necessary and that the proposed text of the authentic interpretation might change the meaning of this provision. On the basis of the events of July, August and September, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia gave its position on the issue of regulating and deploying doctors in the provision of 24-hour healthcare together with the Ministry of Public Administration, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the Ministry of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for legislation. Clearly, this explanation did not reach what was expected of her. Doctors are subject to the Medical Services Act, which means that the doctor works full-time, up to 8 hours a week without consent. The weekly working time limit over full working time shall be taken into account as an average limit over a specified period of time not exceeding 6 months, without taking into account the average annual leave and absence from work due to illness. The monthly limitation on the number of hours laid down in the Working Relations Act does not apply to doctors and other healthcare professionals. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry consider that the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation is neither necessary nor admissible. The Ministry believes that in organising 24-hour healthcare, the Minister will be allowed to deploy doctors to this service within the 40-hour working hours and up to 8 weeks without the necessary consent. In addition, the representative of the FIDES union stressed that they were in the process of joining the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, but they considered that the situation remained unresolved, as the presentation of all the predecessors, as well as the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service, showed that this area was regulated by as many as 3 laws and should therefore be regulated more systematically. Following the introductory arguments, the Committee, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 150 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, moved to the question of whether an authentic interpretation of the law should be adopted and voted on the following proposal for a decision. The Health Committee considers that the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of paragraph 1 in conjunction with paragraph 2 of Article 41b of the Medical Services Act should be adopted. The Committee did not adopt that proposal and 8 votes against and no one voted in favour. In the light of the decision taken, the following decision was adopted by the members of the Committee. The Health Committee proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia not to adopt, pursuant to Article 151 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the first paragraph in conjunction with Article 41b, second paragraph, of the Medical Service Act. The basis for the decision is the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 11. Ten. 2010 Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Izredna-31.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the proposer, Cvetka Zalokar Orazam, for further explanation of the proposal for the adoption of an authentic explanation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Izredna-31.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! At the time of the doctors’ statement in early September, we were informed of various interpretations of the legal provisions in the field of overtime or full-time work of doctors. In some ways, it was found that the legal provisions of the various laws were not harmonised or individual actors had different views on this. It was a matter of the Medical Service Act as a special law governing, inter alia, the working hours of doctors and, on the other hand, the Labour Relations Act, which also imposes certain restrictions on full-time work. In view of the various interpretations that have led to conflicts in this area in particular in public institutions and in the work of the management of these public institutions, we have assessed that this should be cut off and adopted by the Proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the first paragraph in conjunction with the second paragraph of Article 41b of the Medical Service Act. By adopting an authentic interpretation or by drawing up an opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, we wanted to make it clear that the work obligation of doctors within the reference time of 1 week 48 hours is also without consensus. In doing so, I would like to point out that the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly explicitly sets out the obligations of doctors in the context of working through the full working time of doctors, which is why in the final assessment I agree that there is no need for an authentic explanation in this case. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, however, states that an authentic interpretation is necessary when there is a linguistic misunderstanding or a lack of clarity. However, the fact that the legal provisions of the law in question are interpreted differently remains. As already stated in our explanation when we table a proposal for an authentic explanation, there are two laws: the Medical Service Act and the Labour Relations Act, which, according to our assessment, are not in conflict, since these are laws that regulate things at different levels. Although we have decided on the working body of the Member States and members that the adoption of the authentic interpretation of the first paragraph in conjunction with the second paragraph is not necessary, as the existing dictatorship is more than clear. The decision to adopt such a decision was an extremely qualitative opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which we hope will be the basis for further discussions in the future. Such an opinion, prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, can certainly be of interest to all those involved and who have apparently not so far wanted to understand the texts or provisions of individual laws. Therefore, in the Group of Members, we stress explicitly that the conclusion that an authentic interpretation is not necessary is based solely on the content of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which is clear. I quote part of the content: "In view of the different nature of work through full-time work in health activities carried out by doctors and overtime under the Labour Relations Act, it is the view of the Legal and Legislative Service that the creation, differentiation of treatment arrangements in work, which sets out the time limits of this work, is justified and logical. Therefore, we believe that the full-time work of doctors is subject only to a weekly restriction, but not to the monthly and annual limit laid down by the Labour Relations Act as the purpose of such work in both laws is different." In the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, things are, in our opinion, sufficiently clear that in the future, different interpretations of this law will no longer be made available by the individual participants in the full-time job regulation discussion. I am therefore convinced that the content cited earlier by the Legislative and Legal Service is sufficiently eloquent and that in the future there will be no more conflicts in this area, and in particular there will be no different interpretations.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Izredna-31.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. The word is given by Dorian Marusic, Minister of Health. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Izredna-31.ana.u6	Mr President, honourable Members and honourable Members! At the Ministry of Health, on the basis of the initiatives of individual directors of public health institutions and the written request of associations of health institutions, we responded to the concerns of the exhilarating developments in June 2010, following the adoption of the new Law on the Public Wage System, which set out, inter alia, a different evaluation of the on-call service for public servants. On this basis, doctors have repeatedly withdrawn their consent to additional overtime work in health care institutions. According to doctors and the FIDES trade union of doctors and dentists in Slovenia, the full-time work area should be regulated by the Labour Relations Act, which means that doctors would also be subject to monthly and annual restrictions on hours of overtime. At the time of preparation for September 1st, or in cooperation with the directors of these institutions, we prepared an opinion at the Ministry containing an optional interpretation. We have aligned it with the Ministry of Public Administration, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, the Service of the RS Government for Labour Law and Inspectorates of the Republic of Slovenia and forwarded this opinion to all directors of public institutions, which defined and regulated the area of work over full-time in the field of health legislation. We have taken the view that the Medical Services Act applies to the area of overtime, which means that the doctor performs full-time work up to 8 hours a week without consent. The monthly and annual limitation on the number of overtimees in the Labour Relations Act does not apply to doctors and other healthcare professionals. It's a special public interest that healthcare has in it. The Ministry did not hold this opinion among doctors. They advocated an authentic interpretation by the National Assembly, which is the only institution that can give a mandatory interpretation of the provisions of the law. On a proposal from the Ministry of Health, the Government adopted an opinion on the proposal for the adoption of that authentic interpretation and also forwarded it to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, proposing, in the interests of clarity and better understanding, an amendment to the authentic interpretation in the slightly amended text. However, on the basis of the debate held on the Committee on Health on 12 October, where the mother body addressed the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation and, of course, later concluded that the proposed authentic interpretation was not accepted. Grounds for determining the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, 11. Ten. 2010, it has enabled and, in my opinion, will also enable the organisation of continuous healthcare. Just like we imagined when we prepared our opinion. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on the provisions of Article 41.b of the Medical Service Act is clear and clear and therefore there is no need for an authentic explanation, which is why the Government or the Ministry of Health fully agrees and I am sure that 24 hours of healthcare will be easier to organise in this opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Izredna-31.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Just to read the list of those who apologized for this meeting, I got this list now. These are Dara Lavtijar Bebler, Janez Janša, Anton Anderlich, Jožko Godec, Milenko Ziherl, Franco Juri and Samo Bevk. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Ljubo Germič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Izredna-31.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Good-bye to all of you again! In the LDS, we will support the decision of the parent working body that the proposed authentic interpretation of the first paragraph, in conjunction with the second paragraph of Article 41b of the Medical Service Act, is not adopted. It justifies its decision on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which concludes its reasoning with the view that the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation is not appropriate, since the authentic interpretation of the provisions of the Medical Service Act is not necessary and that the proposed wording of the authentic interpretation may change the meaning of this provision. In the LDS, it is recalled that, despite the fact that the amendment of the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System, which was adopted by the National Assembly in the middle of this year and which requires a change in the payment of overtime with effect only on 1 January 2011, the FIDES will draw up a form for the withdrawal of consent to work over full-time in accordance with the restrictions set out in Article 143 of the Labour Relations Act. This form referred to the cancellation of the consent to carry out any overtime after 1. 9. 2010, which exceeds 8 hours per week, 20 hours per month or 170 hours per year. We were surprised to see such behaviour in the House of Ambassadors because, at the adoption of the new Law on the Public Sector Salaries System, an amendment was adopted which allowed for a four-month transitional period for the amendment to be implemented with a view to finding an appropriate solution between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the representatives of doctors and dentists. The proposal for an authentic explanation was submitted by the Zares Group, where, when the consent of the doctors for overtime or on-call work was refused, different interpretations and allocations were made by employers, FIDES and the Ministry of Health. As explained by the Minister of Health in his support, the Government has given a non-binding opinion on the issue of regulating and deploying doctors in the provision of 24-hour health care, which unfortunately has not achieved its purpose. Despite the proposed text of the authentic interpretation by the proponents of the proposals to the Government, the LDS Group agrees with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly that there is no need for a proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation. In doing so, the Legislative and Legal Service reminds us that Article 2 of the current Labour Relations Act provides that, in the absence of a specific law, the Labour Relations Act also provides for the labour relations of employees in public authorities, local communities and institutions, other organisations and public service professionals. This means that the Labour Relations Act is a system regulation which also allows for different regulation of the same matter with other laws when it comes to specific groups of workers. Specific and explicit arrangements of work over full-time for doctors in Article 41b of the Law on Medical Services in the view of the Legal and Legal Service constitute an arrangement which is in relation to the general regulation of overtime in the Law on working relationships of lex specialis, since it specifically refers only to the work on doctors they carry out during full-time work. Furthermore, it can be concluded that the forms of overtime provided for in the Labour Relations Act are not compatible with the nature of the health work. It follows from the material for the adoption of the novel Medical Service Act A that the aim of regulating working time is to provide the doctor with uninterrupted medical care or emergency medical care for the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Work over full-time in health care is, in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, not related to cases explicitly defined by the Labour Relations Act and these are not very common cases. For on-calls which are a special form of work under the Medical Service Act, it cannot be argued that they are carried out in exceptional or exceptional individual cases, as it is expressly stipulated that such work is to provide continuous health care. Thus, according to the Legislative and Legal Service, it can be argued that both the working hours of doctors and the full-time work for doctors have never been expressed as part of the general working time regime in regulations that have generally and systematically regulated working relationships. We would like to draw particular attention to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service that, given the different nature of working full-time in healthcare activities carried out by doctors and overtime under the Labour Relations Act, the work of full-time doctors is subject only to a weekly limit, not to the monthly and annual limit laid down by the Labour Relations Act as the purpose of such work in both laws is different. Under the Medical Services Act, public interest, the provision of uninterrupted healthcare, while the purpose of the time limit under the Labour Relations Act, in particular, is to protect workers. On the basis of this, we agree with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service that the regulation of work over full-time for doctors in the Medical Service Act is special and that the legal rule resulting from the first and second paragraphs of Article 41b of the Medical Service Act does not allow opposing interpretations, which means that it is not vaguely clear. In the LDS Member Club, on the basis of all of this, we support the Committee's decision not to adopt the proposal for an authentic interpretation as it is not appropriate and necessary. The importance of the provisions of Article 41b, paragraph 1, and 2 of the Medical Services Act is clear and uniform. At the same time, we would like such a decision to help find appropriate solutions for the organisation of work in health care institutions and that there will be no more unloving situations and complications. We expect that reason will prevail and that a suitable solution will be found in the coming period, since otherwise the consequences would certainly be borne by healthcare users or patients. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Izredna-31.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Andrea Richter.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Izredna-31.ana.u10	Dear President, Minister of Respect! In view of the different interpretation and determination of overtime by employers and the relationship between the Medical Service Act and the Labour Relations Act, support for the proposal to adopt authentic interpretations of the first paragraph in conjunction with the second paragraph of Article 41b of the Medical Service Act has been from the outset in our Socialist Group. The proposal was tabled at a time when doctors cancelled their consent to overtime or on duty for the adoption of the amendment to the Public Sector Wages Act, irrespective of the fact that there were no grounds for withdrawal of consent. Legislation requiring changes in the payment of overtime shall enter into force as from 1 January 2011. The FIDES union, however, has drawn up a proposal for a cancellation that is passed on to the performance of each overtime after 1 September 2010 and therefore also exceeds 8 overtime per week or 20 overtime per month or 170 overtime per year, as we have heard in previous explanations today. On the Health Committee, I must say, a very constructive debate where, together with the Legislative and Legal Service, we have found that a clear definition of laws does not require an authentic explanation. Regulation of work over full-time for doctors in Article 41b of the Act is a special, special and, as such, clearly reflects the meaning and purpose. We therefore agree in the Group of Social Democrats that an authentic interpretation is not necessary and we will also vote in favour of the proposal for a decision proposed to the National Assembly by the Health Committee and reads as follows: the Health Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes that, pursuant to Article 151 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the first paragraph in conjunction with Article 41b, second paragraph, of the Law on Medical Services should not be adopted. On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation, of 11 October 2010, which is also an important supplement that we support in our group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Izredna-31.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by France Tsukati. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Izredna-31.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! We have a proposal for an authentic interpretation of Article 41b of the Medical Service Act, which refers to the overtime that doctors are obliged to do at the request of the employer. This summer, the government interrupted social dialogue and stopped talking to doctors about overtime. The FIDES then announced that the doctors would withdraw their consent to that overtime work that exceeded the requirement or quota of overtime laid down in the law as mandatory on the basis of the employer’s decision or request. At that time, we also asked the Minister in Parliament what he would do if they really withdrew the agreement. The answer was, "Oh, nothing special. We've been talking to hospital management and health homes, and we're not expecting any problems." But after the real month of withdrawal of consent, we got what we deserved at the government’s doing — the health system began to collapse. You know exactly what it was like. The question was how much longer the duty and the emergency room would be working and how the waiting periods would be extended for other emergency interventions. That's when she got on her neck and got rid of her nose. I also understand the concern of government Members now that they will, however, establish certain secure legal arrangements to force doctors to work overtime if such a problem ever arises again. A year ago, we talked a lot in Parliament about how doctors are collecting their overtime work, how poor patients are getting rich and how the law should limit overtime and prevent the overtime of doctors, of course it was at the time of Minister Miklavčič. What follows from this? This is followed by confusion in the field of health policy – by the law to limit overtime once, secondly to force. This confusion has been taking place throughout the years of this mandate, a health mess. We got the Health Act in a public debate a year ago. This year, early in the spring, we placed him in the hearing, had a public presentation of opinions, and we have been waiting six months for the first hearing to take place. It was said in May, postponed to June, you said at the July session that we would be in September, because by September, the ministry will be preparing amendments that will already indicate how the law will be passed and will go easier through the first hearing. It is now October, we have November and the law is not on the agenda, nor is it planned at the December session. It's a health-policy mix-up. That's not how you do it with health care. I think what's happening today is a small thing, that's irrelevant. There is no need for a mandatory explanation either. The Law on Medical Services makes this clear, and doctors have never resisted or said that they would not perform duty, overtime, what is necessary. Never. And even now, they're doing all of this without a hitch. On these occasions, it is also said how urgent it is to reduce the number of duty stations. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, why are you saying this? Who is responsible for setting up, and who legally sets up a public health service network at a secondary level? Minister. Minister, not us. Why doesn't he do it? Instead of talking and discussing, let health policy do something! I think that's the only smart thing that's been said on the board, that that's not necessary, and there's a lot of other things that need to be done. I call on health policy to do something, what is in its power and what the law stipulates. The Minister should set all these conditions, on-call services and so on, as he decides on the public health service network at the secondary level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Izredna-31.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Cvetka Zalokar Orazem. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Izredna-31.ana.u14	In the Parliamentary Group, indeed, because of the chaotic situation in September, when there was a mass withdrawal of doctors' consent to work full-time, we prepared a proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the first paragraph in conjunction with the second paragraph of Article 41 of the Medical Service Act. The reason for the revolution and the doctors' protest was adopted in July this year by the Law on the Public Sector Wage System. However, Members and Members of Parliament, aware of the difficulties and also the non-conformity at the time of adoption, have adopted an amendment setting out the four-month transitional period by which we introduced the implementation of the amendment, the way in which overtime or on-calls are accounted for on 1 January 2011. The explanation made it clear that the amendment is adopted in particular because of health activities where, due to the content and specification of the provision of uninterrupted healthcare, it makes sense and differentiated determination of on-call jobs, which is essential for the quality, safety and rational implementation of healthcare. The definition of posts to be carried out on duty requires more time. We were convinced that an amendment had to be adopted at the time, by which we moved the application and therefore considered that, in view of the possible expansion of the recruitment of collective bargaining posts, which was also the subject of negotiations with the social partners, the implementation of the provisions of the Act as of 1 January 2011 would allow for a planned transition to the implementation and payment of duties, as proposed by the law at that time. I am sure that we have been sufficiently responsible in the National Assembly when we gave a transitional period and the opportunity for both the Ministry and the Medical Union to discuss on-call arrangements this fall in peace. However, someone was ahead of schedule, and someone wanted to show his disagreement earlier at a time when this was neither established nor necessary. This transitional period did not prevent an exacerbation of the situation, as FIDES prepared such a proposal to withdraw the consent relating to the cancellation of each overtime work as early as 1 September 2010, to the extent that it exceeds 8 hours per week, 20 hours per month and 170 hours per year. However, in that quota, overtime is expected to count all the surpluses already carried out in 2010 before that date. The draft proposal is therefore inadequate, since Article 41 of the Medical Service Act clearly provides that full-time work should not exceed an average of 8 hours per week. I repeat eight hours a week. It further provides that the weekly working time limit over full-time shall be taken into account as an average limit over a specified period of time not exceeding 6 months, without taking into account the average annual leave and absence of work due to disease. Due to the different interpretation and determination of overtime by superiors or employers, the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation was more than necessary at that time. I think it is also necessary at this point and will certainly serve in further negotiations on the resolution of problems in this area. We therefore hope that the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service will help the Minister to continue the talks that are still under way and we hope that our assessment will result in a positive outcome by the end of 2010. The Law-Legal Service also stressed that this was clear. Of course, it was not clear to some, so we also wanted to verify this through the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service in the National Assembly. We hope that this will be a sufficient and appropriate basis for the continuation of the talks and for a clear and professional legal opinion that will be the basis for these discussions.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Izredna-31.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Janez Ribič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Izredna-31.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we appreciate the efforts made by the Member and the Zares Group to resolve the unsustainable situation created by the failure or withdrawal of the consent of doctors for overtime and the different interpretations of the work of doctors over full-time. They are thus trying to resolve the issue of the compatibility of this law with the Labour Relations Act by means of a bill. With the adoption of the amendment to the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System, which dictates changes in overtime payments, these payments and conditions have, in the opinion of doctors, changed to their detriment. The doctor’s overtime is covered by the Medical Services Act, which provides that the doctor performs full-time work, up to 8 hours a week without consent. There is also a very similar provision in Article 52b of the Health Action Act, so an authentic interpretation would not have achieved its purpose. The monthly limitation on the number of hours laid down in the Working Relations Act does not apply to doctors and other healthcare professionals. Therefore, the authentic interpretation is unnecessary and we do not support the Members of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Izredna-31.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by mag. Your Clavor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Izredna-31.ana.u18	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary-General, I am so sorry. In our parliamentary group, we will support the proposal for a decision by the parent working body that there is no need to adopt an authentic explanation as to which law should determine how many hours a week doctors have to work. I'm not gonna repeat what happened in the last few months. I'm not gonna try to guess what could have happened to all the events we've had. In these brief words, however, I would like to limit myself to section 41.b of the Medical Service Act to the link between the two paragraphs of this Act. This is a proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 41b of the Medical Services Act, which discusses the regular work of doctors. With the authentic interpretation of paragraph 1 in conjunction with paragraph 2 of Article 41b of the Medical Services Act, the applicant sought to establish that the article was unequivocal and that the work of doctors during the reference period was 40 hours of work and 8 hours of full-time work without consent. With this clear explanation, it was intended to avoid the resurgence of the mass withdrawals of consent for overtime work or on duty, which caused, as I have already said, an unsustainable health situation. The conclusion that the Medical Service Act clearly and unequivocally determines the working time of doctors will, in our opinion, help to ensure the smooth care of citizens with health services in the future. I hope so. We also believe that the proposal for authentic interpretation has also been necessary in its own way, as a number of open issues will be clarified, particularly with regard to the continuation of negotiations between the FIDES Medical Union and the Minister for Health. As has been said, in our Group of Members, we will conclude that the adoption of an authentic explanation is not necessary and we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Izredna-31.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Miran Györek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Izredna-31.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, President. Colleagues and colleagues, Minister! The purpose of each consideration of the proposal for an authentic interpretation is to clarify the possible ambiguity or lack of clarity or the possible ambiguity of the diction or content of a particular provision or legal norm. In a specific case, the authentic interpretation of paragraph 1 in conjunction with paragraph 2 of Article 41b of the Medical Services Act should be carried out. The very need for the consideration, acceptance and admissibility of the authentic interpretation was discussed by the competent working body of the National Assembly and adopted an appropriate decision as well as an additional decision to take into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. We Members have been given the opinion of our Legislative and Legal Service clearly and legally justified. In the Slovenian National Party, we consider, in line with this opinion, that the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation is not appropriate and that there is no need for an authentic interpretation of the provisions of paragraph 1 in conjunction with paragraph 2 of Article 41b of the Act in question, since in the proposed case there could be a substantive amendment to the provisions of this Act itself, which would not be admissible. The content of Article 41.b is quite clear, namely that it amounts to a weekly limit for doctors 8 overtime. Also on the issue of limiting the overtime of doctors, FIDES has made a clear position and we agree that there is nothing unclear about the weekly restriction as set out in the Labour Relations Act. It is true, however, that this area or problem is regulated by as many as 3 laws, so confusional interpretations of the subject of medical overtime or on-calls and restrictions may arise. These are the Public Sector Wage System Act, the Labour Relations Act and the Health Service Act. The fact is that there is a problem with the interpretation of Article 143 of the Labour Relations Act, which is the provisions on monthly and annual restrictions, as well as Article 2 of this Act on the different regulation of this issue in the public sector, which is already another story. Therefore, we do not consider that the proposed authentic interpretation of Article 41.b is necessary in the Slovenian National Party Group. Finally, we can ask ourselves what we have placed this item on the agenda today, but when we see that all the parliamentary groups, including the proposer of this item, and also the opinion of the parent working body, as a representative of the Government of the Single Opinion, if I say so at home, today have been beating up empty straw for almost an hour. However, we are not dealing in the right place, this is a question and a problem of lack of doctors in Slovenia. We could use this time entirely justified to discuss this issue more. The extreme example is to settle this issue, because 500 doctors, which is missing in Slovenia, is a major problem and we are solving it by limiting their duties and overtime, which I think is wrong. Just as we have adopted the Small Work Act today, where the problem of small work is addressed by restricting and similar restrictive measures. It is said that the policy of solving problems in this country is not in place and is not going anywhere. Nor will this problem of lack of doctors be resolved in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Izredna-31.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We will decide on the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly today, in the framework of the half-hour vote, after the end of item 2 of the agenda or at the latest at 18.50. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. On the day-to-day basis, this is in line with the proposal for a decision on the agreement to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure on the conditions, criteria and procedure for the allocation of funds of the Fund for the financing of SPORT ORGANISATIONS in the Republic of Slovenia. The draft decision was tabled by the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth. I give my word to the chairman of the committee, mag. Majdi Potrat for further explanation of the proposal for a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Izredna-31.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! At its 12th emergency meeting, on 13 October, the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth considered amendments and additions to the Regulation on the conditions, criteria and procedure for the allocation of funds from the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, submitted by the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia pursuant to Article 11 of the Law on the Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia and Article 24 of the Decree establishing the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia, in agreement with the National Assembly. The Director of the Sport Foundation, mag. Drago Balent, Minister for Education and Sport. Dr. Igor Lukšič and representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, Lenča Arko Fabjan. On 16 August, the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia adopted amendments to the Regulations on the conditions, criteria and procedure for the allocation of funds from the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. The first text of the amendments and the addition of the Regulation was received by the National Assembly on 20 August. On the basis of comments from the Legal and Legislative Service, the Director of the Foundation sent a replacement text on 1 September, to which the Legislative and Legal Service reiterated its comments on Articles 2, 4, 7 and 9. On 5 October, the Foundation Director resubmitted a replacement text in which the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service were also taken into account in most cases. As the text submitted in accordance with Article 11(2) of the Law on the Property Conversion of Lottery of Slovenia was not confirmed at the Council of the Foundation on 11 October, a minutes were also sent to the National Assembly showing that the Council of the Foundation at the 6th Correspondent Meeting had also confirmed the final text of the amendments and the addition of the Regulation. In its opinion of 11 October, the Legislative and Legal Service drew attention to the incorrect preamble to the Act and made a comment to Article 8 of the amendment and to the addition of the Regulation. In his opening statement, Drago Balant stressed that the Board of the Foundation had adopted amendments and additions to the Rules on the initiative of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia and were also coordinated with the Ministry of Education and Sport. The proposed changes relate to the co-financing ratios of the areas of the annual work programme, the conditions for co-financing of operators, the allocation criteria and the allocation process of the Foundation. In the debate, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service drew attention to the preamble and then to the provision in Article 8 concerning the co-financing of the event Sportsman of the Year. The Foundation Director shall ensure that the date in the preamble is corrected as the Board of the Foundation at its 26th regular meeting authorised him to agree to any editorial and nomological corrections to the texts, amendments and additions to the Regulation. As regards the event, Sportnik of the year said that this was a specific event, which had been established as a one-year national event and its legal basis was also laid with the amendment in Article 8. Some discussers also pointed out the non-conformity of the Decision establishing a Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia with the Property Change Act of the Lottery of Slovenia. At the end of the discussion, the Committee unanimously adopted a decision proposing to the National Assembly to agree to amend and supplement the Regulation on the conditions, criteria and procedure for the allocation of funds from the Fund for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia of 5 October 2010, and this is also the text submitted. The Committee adopted two further decisions to include the reading point at the 21st regular meeting of the National Assembly. Since this has not been possible, the college has listened to the recommendation of the parent working body and we are now deciding at an extraordinary meeting on a matter which is important so that the invitation to tender can be made and the funds for Slovenian sport can be distributed after the invitation to tender. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Izredna-31.ana.u23	Thank you very much. I also give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Dr Igor Lukšič, Minister for Education and Sport, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Izredna-31.ana.u24	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! Since the Member of Parliament, the chairman of the Committee has already said the main points of explanation, I would just like to ask you to vote in favour of the changes that have been supported in favour of Slovenian sport, as has been shown in all previous stages. The Rules and Amendments to the Rules of Procedure, which are under consideration here today, also enjoy high support among Members. The Committee unanimously supported this. It is about allowing new rules to allocate more resources for sport activities, for sport programmes in relation to investment. In the times in which we live, and in the times in which we go, this will be very important for our sport to achieve as good results as it has achieved so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Izredna-31.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Silva Montenegro. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Izredna-31.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Well-known colleagues and colleagues, well-known minister and co-worker! In the Group of Social Democrats, we support the amendment of the Regulation on the conditions, criteria and procedures for the allocation of funds from the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. We believe that the Sport Foundation's proposal could better plan the reception process in the National Assembly, as changes in the range of resources for sports activities or the construction of sports facilities were mentioned a year ago. This would avoid the time constraints in which we faced the expectations of the sports public that the capacity to increase funding for sport activities by the Foundation will be put into effect already in the 2011 call for proposals. Members and Members of the Social Democrats have signed a request to convene this extraordinary meeting, because we are aware of the disadvantage of Slovenian sport, which remains without important funds and resources during the financial crisis. The Sports Foundation is the largest sponsor under the title also of top sports and sports in Slovenia at all. The analysis of the public funding allocated to the financing of sport shows that the most funds – around three quarters – are contributed by local communities and the remaining quarter is distributed between the Ministry of Sport, Education and the Foundation. In the public funding source of sport financing, the share of the Foundation is slightly less than 10% of all assets. The main important amendment to the Regulation is the change in the volume of resources allocated by the Sports Foundation to projects for the construction of sports facilities. So far, funds have been distributed in a way that no less than 40% and no more than 50% of the funds available to the Foundation for sports activities and the construction of sports facilities. Now the ratio changes in a way that allows up to 60% of the funds to be allocated to sports activities, which is good, and only between 30% and 50% for the construction of sports facilities. This in the nominal amount for 2011 means that additional EUR 1.3 million could be spent on sports activities. Such a distribution will have countercyclical effects on the other reduction of resources under sport sponsorship. Increasing the ratio in favour of sports activities is not the only important novelty. Among them is the introduction of a new programme in the context of sports activities, which is the immediate needs of top and other athletes, from which it will be able to co-finance scholarships to young prospective fellows and co-finance a fund for top athletes. In addition, a condition is introduced that applicants of projects for the construction of sports facilities should also attach evidence of the acquisition of a building permit, allowing greater use of the Foundation's funds for this purpose. The Sports Foundation remains an irreplaceable source of future creation of sports excellence in our country. We are also pleased that the efforts of Minister of Education and Sport, Dr Igor Lukšič, after maintaining or even raising funds for sport programmes in the integral part of the budget are appropriate. This year alone, 20% more resources are allocated for this activity than last year, and the amount will not fall below the 2008 level, nor in the next 2 years. Public investment follows the objective of harmonious development of all forms of sports activities, both those promoting a healthy lifestyle and those which constitute a prerequisite for the further growth of the sporting potentials of this country. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will be happy to support the decision by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to amend and supplement the Rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Izredna-31.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Darka Meni. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Izredna-31.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues, a very nice greeting! The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party is as follows. Amendments and additions to the Regulations on the conditions, criteria and procedure for the allocation of funds from the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia have been submitted by the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations for approval by the National Assembly, since the amendments should allow for more funding to be allocated to sport programmes through the call for proposals for the implementation of the annual programme. The amendments and additions to the Foundation Regulation relate to the provisions governing the co-financing ratios of the areas of the annual work programme, the conditions for co-financing of operators, the allocation criteria and the allocation procedure. The amendments to the rules themselves are well-intentioned, but we cannot go beyond the fact that the Decree establishing the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia is inconsistent with the Law on Property Conversion of Lottery Slovenia, almost two years ago. The Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth is already in session 15. 1. 2009 adopted the following decision. The Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth proposes to the Government to prepare and submit to the National Assembly as soon as possible for the consideration and adoption of the amendment of the Decree establishing the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia, which will be in line with the Law on Property Conversion of Lottery Slovenia. We are wondering where are the corrections to be made by the Government or the Ministry of Education and Sport. Where is the obstacle that little harmonisation could not be prepared in almost 2 years? Also at the last meeting of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth, 13. Ten. 2010 our warnings and the proposal for a decision were heard and rejected. Our proposal for a decision was as follows: The Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth notes that within 2 years the Ministry of Education and Sport has not reached a conclusion to submit to the Committee material by which it would prepare an amendment to the Decision establishing the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, which will be in line with the Law on the Property Transformation of Lottery of Slovenia. However, this has not been done by the Ministry of Education and Sport, which is the reason for delays and legal complications. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party to the entire assembly, we propose that the proposed decision be supplemented by a proposal from the Government to prepare and submit for consideration and adoption as soon as possible the harmonisation of the act governing the establishment of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia with the Law on the Property Conversion of Lottery of Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the proposal for a decision on the agreement to amend and supplement the Rules on the conditions, criteria and procedure for the allocation of funds from the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, as this is in favour of Slovenian sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Izredna-31.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Vito Rožej. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Izredna-31.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The amendments and additions to the Regulation on the conditions, criteria and procedure for the allocation of funds of the Foundation for the financing of sport organisations follow the needs in this field. The changes concern the area of sports activities, the area of direct needs of top athletes and selected scientific research projects. Both the Olympic Committee of Slovenia and the Ministry of Education and Sport are formed and coordinated, and the comments of the Legal and Legislative Services are taken into account. As can be seen from the opinions of the groups of Members, there is no reason not to support them. The only thing we really regret in the Group of Members is the fact that, due to time constraints, we have to deal with this act at an extraordinary meeting. It would be time for the first invitations to tender in the coming days to allow for the financing of sport in the following year. Of course, today is probably not the time to have any broader discussion about Slovenian sport and its future. Of course, it would also be in the interest of this National Assembly to discuss the situation and ambitions of Slovenian sport more widely, because the interpretation we had last month in this Chamber was not a debate on Slovenian sport. Of course, we will support this rule and hope that the following amendments to the Regulation will come on the agenda of the National Assembly in due time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Izredna-31.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Janez Ribič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Izredna-31.ana.u32	Your Honor! As a result, the economic crisis also reflects poor economic conditions in the field of Slovenian sport. The capital in sport is mainly concentrated only in sports industries that are commercially most interesting and all other sports sectors are highly dependent on co-financing by the state. According to the proposer of these changes, the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia to the Slovenian umbrella sports organisation, the funds of the Foundation are now a very important source of funding for their programmes. Together with the funds of the Ministry of Education, some sports associations account for over 50% of all funds. In recent years, there has been an increasing funding from the Ministry of Sport programmes for investment in sport infrastructure, and fewer and fewer resources are being made available from the Ministry of Education and Sport for the activities of sport. The Foundation therefore proposes amendments and additions to the Regulation to correct the relationship between the resources allocated, on the one hand, and activities on the other. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the proposed changes, although, in particular with regard to control over the purposeful use of funds, it raises a number of questions, we hope, unfortunately, to talk about this another time. It is in this context that we cannot go beyond the process of adopting these changes. The applicant’s explanation states that the public debate on amendments and additions to the Regulation has been held for a year and a half since March 2009. Nevertheless, we are now sitting here at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, as if we are facing an emergency or a state of war. This is unfair both to the National Assembly and to the Slovenian sport itself, which certainly deserves a better relationship both by the State and by the responsible people in this area. It is completely unnecessary to create the feeling that some content wants to be resolved as quickly as possible through the necessary procedure or not. Maybe someone just didn't do their job the way they should. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Izredna-31.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by mag. Your Clavor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Izredna-31.ana.u34	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary-General, I am so sorry. By acknowledgment of the decision, the National Assembly will give its consent, in accordance with the Property Change Act of Loteria Slovenije and the Decree establishing the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia, to amend and supplement the Regulations on the Conditions, Criteria and Procedure for the Distribution of Resources of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. The amendments and additions to the act under consideration were initiated by the Olympic Committee of the Association of Sports Associations and the Foundation itself included in the proposal new content which constitutes editorial corrections to the current text. The proposed changes are in line with the Ministry of Education and Sport. The Sports Foundation does not have an easy task, as the expectations of sports organisations and society and the whole sport sphere are very high. It is necessary to coordinate very different interests and to ensure transparent and purposeful use of resources. This is particularly difficult at a time when the poor economic situation in most sports societies indicates their higher expectations and demands for the foundation, and the Foundation’s funds are also extremely important for the umbrella Slovenian sports organisations. In view of the current regulation, a new Regulation is being adopted in the direction of amendments in the following areas. Towards a co-financing ratio of the area of the annual work programme, the conditions for co-financing of operators, the allocation criteria and the allocation procedures. In our parliamentary group, by confirming this proposal, we do not have any problems with the new content of the Regulation, because we believe that the Foundation is trying to follow up on all the current needs of Slovenian sport in a way that ensures the high quality of all sports activities and, as a result, the top results achieved by our athletes and athletes on a team and on a case-by-case basis. It is true, however, that the timing of the validation of the regulation is linked to a call for proposals that should be prepared on the basis of these amendments, which will be approved today at an extraordinary meeting. Given the procedural situation under which this act is being dealt with today, it would certainly be far more appropriate for the Foundation to prepare and forward proposals for acts in a timely manner to the National Assembly when it has to deal with them in accordance with the law, as the National Assembly must also deal with and decide on them in accordance with the rules of procedure. As I have mentioned, we will support the proposals we have before us in our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Izredna-31.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Ljubo Germič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Izredna-31.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we support the development of quality high-quality sport, and in general a healthy way of life. In the current times of crisis, when funding and donor resources are declining, effective support for such activities must be provided despite difficult times. Without adequate resources, there can be no quality sport. The amendment of the Regulation on the conditions, criteria and procedure for the allocation of funds from the Foundations for the financing of sport organisations allows the Foundation to devote more resources to this activity for future funding, while the competent ministries will allocate more resources to investments. It follows from the annual programmes of the Ministry of Education and Sport that more resources are allocated from year to year for investment in sport infrastructure. Almost €20 million in 2009 and almost €25 million in 2010. From year to year, however, the activities of high-level sport have been allocated less than €4.5 million per year, and in 2009 only €4.5 million of the nearly 38 million available. The imbalance between the intended means for sport infrastructure and the intended means for sports activities, in particular high-quality sport, may be adequately corrected by amending the Fund's rules of procedure by balancing the relationship between the intended means for sport activities in the Fund's rules. The Foundation Regulation thus introduces the possibility of a balance and the relationship between the intended means for sports activities and the intended means for the construction of sports facilities. The fact is that without adequate means it is not possible to develop and promote high-quality sport, so in the LDS Club we support the amendment of the Regulation. At the same time, we are dissatisfaction with the fact that it is only now that the regulation has been amended, although in recent years there has been a clear trend in the continuous reduction of funds for programmes or sports content, at the expense of increasing funds for investment in sport infrastructure. By amending the Rules of Procedure, this relationship could have been settled long ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Izredna-31.ana.u37	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. The word has magic. Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Izredna-31.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Since it was also mentioned in the views of the parliamentary groups that the Ministry had not prepared a change in the decree and that two should be stressed at the current meeting and in this debate also in order to adopt an additional decision. Amendments to the Regulation on the conditions, criteria and procedure for the allocation of funds from the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia shall be adopted in the text in which they are submitted. Therefore, the difficulties involved in the adoption of the Rules are the result of the text we received from the applicants in the National Assembly, which is the Director of the Sport Foundation. If someone needs to be reminded of the work that has been done in a timely and bad way, it should be given to the director of the foundation responsible for it. I tried to be as gentle and considerate as possible in the committee report. But since there have been quite a few attacks and a few hints of who did not do their job, then it must be said, because once again I say that at a committee meeting the text cannot be interfered with. The text must be adopted in the form in which the relevant body of the sport foundation has agreed to do so. That's the first thing. We got the text changed three times. The second point is the unfulfilled decision of the committee of January last year. However, it must be said that without any warning these rules could be adopted. Because what the decision should be aligned with is the harmonisation of those articles which speak of the composition of the foundation board, the agreement to appoint the foundation director and the non-professional function of the director. These are three things that, with this rule that we are currently discussing and which we are expected to confirm at today's session, have nothing in common. That was why it was just a clever maneuver, which did not need to be discussed subsequently, because it did not go into the articles we had before us. You have received members of the committee, and I think that all Members and Members, the letter from the Minister for Education and Sport explaining why the decree has not been amended. What you need to talk about is these things. This letter came on October 14th, and if you read it carefully, you would see that you get it in the text, in particular in the second paragraph, explaining why the amendments to the decree were not transmitted. However, as regards the proposed proposal for a decision referred to by the representative of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, it is clear to those who are aware in the Rules of Procedure that, at this stage, such a decision cannot be taken at the plenary session of the National Assembly. Nor does it have any confirmation of the Committee, since such a decision on the Committee was not adopted on a specific basis that the decision amending the decision was adopted at a meeting of the Committee last January 2009 and did not expire. Now we have received further notice as to why this has not been done so far. Of course, I will support the rules on terms, criteria and procedure for the allocation of funds, because I think that this is the best way to delay procedures, because by 5 November the call should be published so that sports organisations can draw on the resources they urgently need for good operation. What I reiterate, however, is that no one has questioned the content of the amendments and the additions. Therefore, there is no reason why the proposed decision should not be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Izredna-31.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Izredna-31.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. I have to say, I'm really glad it's my turn right now. The old Slovenian proverb says: Patience is God's fat, but the poor is the one who marries it. In this House, we have been waiting two years for a single decision to be implemented, which within the shortest possible time frame, the Minister committed himself to some two years ago. Moreover, there is one broader issue that is still relevant, since it is about creating those who, in the process, co-form such a rule as is said to be before us today, which is why the matter is still connected. But this principled question, which I am talking about, concerns understanding the role of Parliament and its committees, which, within their powers and on behalf of the entire Parliament, exercise their supervisory function. The supervisory function of Parliament over the executive branch of power is a principle resulting from the Constitution itself. It is the exercise of one of the fundamental constitutional powers of Parliament and the supervisory function, not the legal profession that we have just witnessed. This is a fundamental misunderstanding. What in particular happened on the Committee to make it more clear. There we proposed a decision to find out and thus point out to the National Assembly this important fact that within 2 years, after the competent committee has adopted a decision on the need to harmonise legal acts among themselves, to do so at home, the legal order, which in some way is also a constitutional principle and value, has not happened. We didn't get the draft either. Moreover, one of the many things that opened up on the committee as a problem was, in fact, the root of the problem was that the various legal acts were not perfect, they were sublime and, worst of all, they were not harmonised among themselves. Then we have witnessed to a lawyer, as we are just here, as if this is not so bad, it is not necessarily connected, because it is only about the design of some bodies and the appointment of key people, who, of course, then form exactly what is before us today and what we find to be perhaps not ideal, at least some of you said so, but it is not the task of Parliament to note this. Parliament's task is to exercise its supervisory function. On behalf of Parliament, the competent working body, led by Mrs Potrata, accepted the conclusion, now almost two years ago, that there is a need for a legal order in some area, to be reinstated because there is a conflict between legal acts. The minister who was present there pledged to do so immediately, as soon as possible. In 2 years this has not happened, not only has it not happened, nothing has happened. Today we are here as witnesses of a long and broad debate, because it is not really a bad thing to continue to be a legal mess, as it does not affect at all that we can make our own decisions. I must say that this is a great contribution to Slovenian democracy and to understanding the constitutional and legal order, and therefore I can only repeat what I said before and what I started with, and with which I will also end: Patience is God's fat, but the poor is the one who marries it. All citizens and citizens have been patient for two years now, watching this coalition and the government work. Unfortunately, we're going to be two more years, but then the moment of truth will come, and I'm looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Izredna-31.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic. [[He's quitting.]] Bogdan Chapich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Izredna-31.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I would focus the debate on the mission of this Foundation in particular. I worked with this foundation a lot, and I remember the year it was founded, that was in 1998. Until then, these funds were shared in the Association of Sporting Associations of Slovenia more than investment funds, these are the funds obtained from lottery concessions. Today, the Foundation is an important sport funder in Slovenia, not only in the field of investment, which means many of the first start-up funds or funds, which also means to a large extent the possibility of accession to projects and also calling on local communities and the country to finance sports facilities. If we look at the reports and developments of this period from 2000 to today, we can also find that we have built quite a lot of these, not only capital sports facilities, but in particular smaller sports facilities, gym renovations and facilities that are intended for sports recreation and for all of us, including mountain roads and some other things. Another important part of the change that we are now making is the financing of sport activities. It is good that we have approached a slightly different sport, even because of the financial and economic crisis that sport is experiencing to a large extent, despite the fact that sport also gives the country extremely much back through forms of taxes or health, through some other elements that are not actually measurable at all, at least not materially, to say that it gives so much and so much back. That is why this part and distribution are extremely important and will be of great importance to many sports industries, national sports relations, as well as in future individual top athletes, allowing them to represent Slovenia in sports work and thus promote Slovenia, as well as in the development of certain sports industries. This results in the development of sport at a lower level. It is good to support these changes to a large extent, irrespective of the comments that are logical, particularly local communities, which want more money for investments and slightly less for the second part, in order to facilitate the completion of their investment plans. I'm sure it's possible both. It is possible to build, it is possible, by allowing the foundation to finance a project for several years – at the beginning it was only one year and there was a lot of work to be done. From this point of view, it is good to support these changes as well as the sports foundation as one of the important pillars of financing sport in Slovenia. And the second is how we got these changes and the things that happened. I would like to support Ambassador Majdo Pótt that the problems are also elsewhere, which are likely to be overcome by the development of the Foundation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Izredna-31.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word is by Dejan Levanic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Izredna-31.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. I think it's some changes that are certainly crucial. We have the Foundation for Sport, which in Slovenian space is the largest sponsor of top sports and sport in general. So far, we have known the relationship between the funds distributed by the Foundation between sports activities projects and projects for the construction of sports facilities. We are pleased that, in the nominal amount, when we look at these amendments to the Regulation, 2011 means that there will be an additional €1.3 million for sports activities, and this is for the time in which we are definitely moving forward. These are the needs arising from the needs of sport and have also been heard by the Ministry of Education and Sport. This isn't the only big news. It is also very important to introduce a new programme in the context of sports activities, which is direct assistance to top and other athletes, from which those who are involved in sports can also benefit from a perspective. The scholarship system is being implemented, so that as far as this is concerned and the co-financing of the fund for top athletes is being made a step further. One of the key issues, which is also important within the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, is that we still have the resources. We are witnessing an increase in funding for sport programmes in the integral part of the budget, with 20% more funding being allocated for this activity than last year alone. Support for sport is also shown from the chart in the analysis of measures in the field of sport, children and youth to invest much more resources to this end, so that despite the time we are in, the Ministry could listen and did everything in its power to support this activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Izredna-31.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The word has Darka Menich. [[He doesn't want to.]] Silva Nigga can't have a word anymore. Does he want a word with the government's representative? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Izredna-31.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to explain some of the issues raised in the debate by the SLS, SDS and Mr Grims. If I start just to find out that someone hasn't done their job, I agree with that. The Foundation, in particular the Director, has not done his job. You know, the Foundation's new team is working with a professional director, while it used to be a non-professional task. From this title, work should be done more responsibly and should not wait until the last, in particular because the Ministry of Education and Sport has adapted the relationship in favour of sports programmes with the budget or the first balance in 2009. It's about a year and a half or so, as the SDS colleagues say, because it's the same period as the amendment of the law, it's been around for about two years, since which time it's been going to change the rules in this direction. That's one thing. The Ministry and the Minister are in this regulation, not because he would be a proposalr and because he would not have done his job, but because he covers the field of sport and the foundation is independent and the ministry has no direct influence. The second point is the SDS's statement on the coordination of the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia and the decree. The Law on Property Transformation of Loteria Slovenije entered into force on 9 November 2007. In the provisions of Article 9, he requested an adaptation by decree until 24 November 2008. This is in the time of the previous government. The previous government failed to do so in one year, and now Members of the then government majority find out how threatened the rule of law is now when this matter has not been harmonised. As far as respect for the rule of law and understanding is concerned, we are at this point of the bot. Of course, this does not mean that this is a key apology. A key apology for not having done so since 2009 was given in a letter already quoted by Mrs Potrate and received by Members. It does not apply to what Mr Grimes said that nothing has happened at all. There's been a lot. The Ministry immediately initiated the preparation of the amendment and the harmonisation of the decree. However, in the inter-departmental coordination procedure it was pointed out that it was necessary to amend the law first, since the Public Institute for Sport of the Republic of Slovenia had ceased to operate in the meantime. This fact should be changed in the Property Transformation Act of the Lottery of Slovenia. The Ministry has now taken action to amend the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia and will only be able to obtain a basis for amendment and adaptation by decree on this basis. It's not true that nothing happened. It's happened, it's happening, but it's true it's happening too slowly. However, I agree with this that it is happening too slowly and, as it is called in the school language, in Old Slovenian teaching, I will turn my ears on the competent ones. Today it would be forbidden, but as a metaphor from earlier times, we can still use it. This debate from this point of view is, in my view, as it was on the Committee. I didn't react at the time because it wasn't on the agenda, like it wasn't today. Nevertheless, at the end of the day, I ask you to support this change in favour of Slovenian sport in all these peripetions and delays. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Izredna-31.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Would you like a word with the proposer, the chairman of the committee? [[He doesn't want to.]] All the advertised debaters you wanted got your word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? Mag. Grimes. Anyone else? Nobody wants anything but mags. Grimes? The word has magic. Branko Grimes. You have five minutes. This concludes your applications for discussion, and you need to know that.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Izredna-31.ana.u48	As the Minister cheers his ears, it is very interesting, especially since it is a school minister and, as I recall, it is something to avoid in the legal order. But let's say it was meant with humor and just figurative. In this case, it is precisely he who is involved in this national assembly. What person is responsible for harmonising legislation and harmonising legal acts in an area when it comes to the competence of a particular ministry? The first person responsible, of course, is the Minister himself. The one who exercises control of this work is the National Assembly. That was exactly the whole point of what I said earlier. Not only did the Minister fully confirm what I said, in his last words, when he admitted that everything was going on substantially, substantially too slowly, did he confirm what I started and ended up with – patience is God's fat, but it is the poor one who marries it. Unfortunately, this also applies to Slovenia as a whole in a given case, from January 2009 to today it has been quite a nice number of months. I hope that at least we all agree on this.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Izredna-31.ana.u49	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The proposal for a decision will be decided in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I hereby adjourn the 31st extraordinary session, which will be resumed by the vote at 17.55.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Izredna-31.ana.u50	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with paragraph 1 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of paragraph 1 in conjunction with paragraph 2 of Article 41b of the Medical Service Act. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body: The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the first paragraph in conjunction with the second paragraph of Article 41b of the Medical Service Act shall not be adopted. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 73 Members and Members present. It's 63 votes against 2. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the procedure for the adoption of the authentic interpretation has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of item 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on Consent to Amendments and Supplements to the Regulation on the conditions, criteria and procedure for the allocation of funds from the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly agrees to amend and supplement the Regulation on the conditions, criteria and procedure for the allocation of funds from the Fund for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, of 5 July 2016. Ten. 2010 We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 72 Members and Members present. He voted 72 against no one. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 31st extraordinary meeting of the assembly and soon to see you. The meeting was closed on 26 October 2010 at 17.57.
