ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the 21st session of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members cannot attend today's meeting: Dara Lavtijar Bebler, Janez Janša, Anton Anderlič, Joško Godec, Milenko Ziherl and Franco Juri. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 23. On a daily basis, this is the first defensively proposed Road Traffic Law, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, the Group of 13 Members and Members, with the first-signed Bevk, requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Dr. Patrick Vlačič, Minister of Transport, has the floor. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u2	Thank you, President. Good-bye, everybody! Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Today, the last two in the package of four bill proposals, which have emerged from the existing Road Safety Act, bring about the necessary systemic changes to improve safety. First, the Road Traffic Rules Act. We are aware that every participant in transport wants to have such a transport system that meets its needs and expectations, since ultimately quality of life also depends on the level of road safety. In this respect, road safety is also the responsibility of the State, which has an overview of traffic developments with its institutions and the necessary levers with which it directly or indirectly affects this area in addition to an individual. Ensuring greater security can be achieved by encouraging road users to behave more responsibly, respect for regulations and create awareness of the importance of traffic safety, as well as ensuring safer vehicles and road infrastructure. This can and should be done by planners and manufacturers, on the one hand, and by operators and operators, on the other hand, together with the relevant supervisory services. Road safety depends on the responsible conduct of each individual. In addition, educational and preventive organisations, the media, repressive and judicial authorities, civil society, economic societies, the management of self-government local communities and, last but not least, state bodies contribute to their work. Each has its own share of responsibility for greater security and can contribute to its achievement, but the objectives set can only be achieved through concerted action and joint effort. Three years have passed since the adoption of the national road safety programme. In 2007, we started badly with many countries in the European Union. This trend has then been halted and even improved by the planned measures so far. The number of deaths in road traffic is 113 today, which is less than a quarter of the same period last year. However, we must not be satisfied with what has been achieved until we ensure that people do not die on Slovenian roads. We believe that the planned changes will be able to sustain this positive trend, without even strengthening it. The key changes introduced by the new bill are as follows. We have reduced fines for offences that do not significantly affect road safety, such as the removal of an isolated vehicle, the loading and interpretation of goods on the road and the like, and more severe is the sanctioning of perpetrators of those offences directly linked to the worst consequences of traffic accidents, such as alcohol, illicit drugs, psychoactive substances, speed exceeding and so on. The conditions for holding drivers are slightly milder. We define precisely the competences of the local authorities. We introduce a new institution to suspend the termination of the driving licence and extend the Institute of Temporary Motor Vehicle Seizure to other serious road traffic violations. It's just a little bit of important news. Let me also point out that we agree with those who underline the importance of education, education and warning, which we have also taken into account in the preparation of the new transport legislation. However, we are aware that these measures contribute to the effects, as a rule, at the end of a longer period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u3	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Position of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. I see that Mrs Renate Brunskole is not in the Chamber, so the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will be presented by Branko Marinič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! We will not support the draft law on road transport rules proposed by the Government in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Why not? The general conclusion is that in the field of road safety, too, the problem has been resolved in the various services of a number of cabinets concentrated in our capital. It follows from the content of the proposal for a law on road traffic rules that stricter sanctioning drivers is one of the main solutions to increase safety on Slovenian roads. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we were critical until the current government, which in the balance of the budget was reducing funds on transport infrastructure and increased resources for analysis, research, studies and so on. Even with the state-of-the-art traffic signalling on dangerous sections, it cannot be expected that road safety will increase. Dangerous sections need to be repaired. This means providing more funding for road infrastructure, which unfortunately is not clear from the 2011 and 2012 draft budget which the Government has already forwarded to the National Assembly. The proposal for a law has 116 articles and it provides that the law enters into force on 1 April 2011, and we hope it does, but it will apply on 1 July 2011. At the conclusion of the presentation of the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, I should mention something else which has a bearing on the amendment of the sub-legislative acts. With the implementation of the Road Traffic Rules Act, 9 regulations and three regulations will have to be amended. Let me point out the draft rules on pedagogical escorts for the transport of groups of children, as provided for in Article 11 of the bill. Article 4 of this draft regulation, which is one of the sub-legislative acts, states as follows: "... the companion shall take care of the safety of children when entering and leaving the bus. The observer shall, together with the driver, determine the point of entry and exit which shall be considered to be appropriate and safe in terms of transport infrastructure. If the bus in which the children enter or leave the bus is stopped in the carriage, the escort shall ensure that the children do not walk uncontrollably on the road." Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to consider seriously whether the carrier is also responsible for the safety of passengers. We often talk about the use of public rail transport. If we compare the organisation of the carriage of children with trains with the specific case of Article 4 of the draft Regulation, then the answer is more in the palm of the hand. Respectable and respected, use public transport of railways! Imagine the high risks experienced by the accompanying group of 50, 52 children. The Regulation also provides that, in order to monitor the group of children being transported on the bus, it is necessary to provide for every 15 children of one escort. This companion must be adequately educated and his age should not be less than 21 years. And once again, I would like to point out that these escorts take on a great deal of responsibility by actually putting them in the role of a guardian of a group of children when they are being transported when they get in and off the bus. At least until the worst happens, a lot of people don't even look at this rule. But when something bad happens when it comes to harming children or perhaps even more tragic stories, it raises the question of what these companions take on such a change. The next question to be raised and to be resolved is whether carriers are not also responsible for security of entry and exit. It is already true that the bus can stop anywhere, almost, a little to the right, or also on the driver’s seat. It is appropriately marked in front and in the back, and, if necessary, the companion also with his hand stops the other road users so that the group of children can exit safely. But look, the next question that needs to be raised here is the fundamental question when we talk so many times about the undernutrition of the rail system in the use of public, rail passenger traffic. The risks here are significantly lower. The train hardly stops where there is no platform, the train almost stops where there is no prescribed place for safe entry and exit from the train. And the rule of law as a sub-law to the basic railway law says that the train can't stop there. By this rule, a bus can actually stop anywhere. There is also a major misunderstanding in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, which seems to us to be a restrictive increase in penalties for certain offences. At the same time, as the minister mentioned, fines are reduced in some individual cases. You know, this reduction in fines in individual cases hardly deserves serious treatment. Yeah, so much so it's for a sample. Stricter sanctioning of drivers caught in the commission of infringements directly linked to the worst consequences of traffic accidents: alcohol, illicit drugs, psychophysical substances, speed overruns and the like, and reduction of fines for offences, as I said. In one of the contents, we can identify the worst offences under the Road Traffic Rules Act, the fine of EUR thousand 200 and the foreign sanction of 18 penalty points, which means the loss of a driver's license and so on, for an offence: driving in the opposite direction on the highway, a fast road and a road with two or more lanes to drive in one direction. Let us just look at a concrete example of the last serious traffic accident that took place on the Styrian highway at the breakaway for Žalec. If we were careful, we could see that a public debate soon followed, where the profession advocated that it could not assume any responsibility, it was the driver’s fault for taking the opposite direction. Do you know what happened on Slovenian highways after this tragedy? A few metres of plastic barriers, properly illuminated and visible in poor visibility conditions, has been extended, so that a driver who would like to mislead in the opposite direction on the highway must overcome these plastic obstacles and this does not just happen. These plastic physical obstacles are placed within a few metres of the roadway along the middle of the road and it is almost impossible for the driver to take the wrong direction. Even if he has overlooked all traffic signals, he must physically overwhelm the plastic barriers and mislead them in the opposite direction. Is this plastic really so expensive that we cannot install it or install it in many such places? Unfortunately, we wait for the worst to happen and then we act. This, of course, is wrong, for human life is much more precious than that. And we prefer to point out the content of the road traffic law, where we stress how drasticly we will reach out to poor people who are drivers, unfortunately, and where because of some situation we are in Slovenia, they actually come to some reduced part of the attention on the road and, by the way, can lead them in the wrong direction. From a practical example, I tried to illustrate that this could be prevented with minimal costs. Of course, from the content of the bill on road traffic rules, which we have already discussed in three other laws, two already on Friday, one today, one can be seen that the four contents of the bill replace the so-called Road Traffic Safety Act. It may not be wrong for the road safety law to be divided into four areas, into four laws. Some of the content is also consistent with European Community legislation, which needs to be mentioned, but with the emphasis on the content of the Road Traffic Rules Bill, it is not possible to be satisfied when we are talking only and above all about the content that some fines are increasing dramatically. In the parliamentary group, we will vote against the conclusion in the past that the law is suitable for further consideration because of all of this and because of some of the proposals that have not been taken into account in the past. The safety of cyclists, where compulsory helmets are prescribed, has also not been aligned with many institutions, civil society, professional associations, so that things can be regulated and also incorporated in the proposal for a road transport law. As it is said, we will vote in the parliamentary group against the fact that the law is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Tadej Slapnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary! The Road Traffic Rules Act is one of four new laws replacing the existing Road Traffic Safety Act. The main objective of the laws is to increase the safety of all road users. In the case of road users, the regulation of road users limits traffic rules. And if the actions of the participants follow them, we can rightly expect to reduce the harmful consequences that are reflected in the form of material injury, physical injury or even death. The proposal for a road traffic law follows the basic objectives of the country's transport safety policy, which are mainly to reduce the number of accidents in which persons are injured and fatal accidents. Since the drafter has already presented the substantial changes introduced by the proposal for a road transport law, in the presentation of the position of the Zares Group – the new policy will focus on those issues, concerns and proposals which we consider to be reasonable to take into account in the next legislative procedure. The first step is to determine the amount of the penalty depending on the personal income or property status of the infringementr of road traffic regulations. At first glance, this thinking may also be an intervention in constitutional equality, as the Ministry of Justice points out, but in the Zares Group, we believe that a new policy is still needed. Mr Vukasinovic also wrote about this issue a while ago, saying that the Constitution does not impose higher penalties on those with larger assets, but it certainly allows it. He says that in addition to fairness, we can achieve another goal, I quote, "... special and general prevention cannot possibly be well established if those of the brutal violators of traffic regulations, who are accidentally well-proportioned, feel threatened by the greatest fines that are of value to them". It is therefore also a matter of whether or not there are incentives to respect the law itself. It is also likely that those countries which do not have a good review of the income of individuals, on the other hand, have a large grey economy, cannot introduce such a system in a qualitative manner without causing new injustices. Therefore, at this point, we expect the competent institutions to establish records in future systems in a manner that will be transparent and, of course, not merely because of the thinking in the context of the sanctions mentioned and presented. The second point that we draw from the new policy in the Parliamentary Group is that of the NGO of the Slovenian Cycling Network, which points to inadequate and unacceptable legal provisions regarding wearing protective helmets for all bikers. The draft law provides in Article 34 for the use of bicycle helmets for all cyclists and for the non-use of bicycle helmets to prohibit further driving covered by Article 17 of the Act. Many studies and experiences around the world have shown that the law of compulsory use of bicycle helmets has not achieved the desired effect. The number of bikers decreased markedly due to the requirement to wear a helmet. In Australia, for example, for one third. However, the number of head injuries remained the same. The smaller number of bikers on the road has also proven to increase the number of fatalities of bikers per km transported. If we look at the problem of road safety more broadly, we see that mandatory use of bicycle helmets would not increase safety, and it will have a markedly negative impact on the development of sustainable transport in Slovenian cities. The key to improving transport safety is in particular the building of appropriate infrastructure, which will properly include cyclists on the market and provide them with greater security. We must also be aware of the differences between sports and recreational cycling, which takes place mostly outside the settlements, and everyday cycling in cities. For licensed sports cyclists, mandatory helmets have already been prescribed in existing legislation, while in cities reduced speed of driving will significantly affect greater safety. Moreover, the argument that the proposed compulsory use of helmets is only preventive does not hold true, since the law provides that an authorised official may prohibit the rider from further driving and that such prohibition can only be understood as a sanction. In addition, the law is required to respect everyone, whether sanctions are provided for or not. We propose to the competent ministry that this provision should be properly removed and a more acceptable solution should be found, which will focus on the development of cycling culture and sustainable mobility, and will not be based solely on unwarranted fear. However, for the transport safety of bikers, the law should take care of measures that will have reliable positive effects. The next proposal that we propose to debate and legalisation in the Parliamentary Group Really – a new policy is the possibility of a safe turn to the right when the red light is on. This means that in sufficient transparent intersections it would be possible to turn to the right at the red light at the traffic light if it did not hinder and endanger the other road users. We justify the advantage of such an arrangement by saving time and resulting in a positive environmental impact, as this reduces the time of harmful exhaust emissions while waiting at the intersection significantly. Such arrangements are also known in other countries where they have already proved that such regulation does not reduce road safety. The situation in the case of a red crossing in a right-hand corner is very similar to that in which a driver has to decide carefully and consciously when driving through a green light when turning to the right, when driving through a green light, whether or not he will be carrying a cross and will pay attention to the advantages of other road users, such as pedestrians, who are able to cross the road at the same time. In the Zares Group – a new policy, we expect such a change in road transport rules to be introduced in a safe and gradual manner, so we propose that, during the transitional period, only selected safe crossings be introduced first. If appropriate analyses prove that such an arrangement does not adversely affect traffic safety, we expect that the possibility of a safe turn in the right at the red light will extend to all other transparent crossings in the country. However, the last proposal that we wish to draw attention to is to consider the relevance of the lights on during the day. So, even when the car lights are shining in the sun, it's obviously completely superfluous. In an expert article, Stefan Pruver answered the question of the meaning of such enlightenment. In fact, the article took all the studies produced in 2000 to assess the impact of mandatory daylight on road safety and found that none of these studies prove that safety would actually be increased as a result of this measure. Nor did the last study carried out by the Dutch demonstrate the direct link between the general obligation of daylight lights and road safety. Some studies even identify the opposite effects, which is not even so unusual, as more visible cars make other participants less visible, especially bikers and pedestrians. In addition to these, other light signals, such as directional signals, are less noticeable. More. Lights on give some drivers the wrong idea that road users see them unconditionally. In the Parliamentary Group, indeed, we do not claim that the lights lit in the afternoon do not contribute to safety in certain circumstances, such as poor visibility or overcoming on highways at higher speeds, but we argue that there is no need for safety at all and that safety is even significantly reduced in certain circumstances. However, during the days of the lighting, very clear negative environmental effects have been observed. The average vehicle uses 0.17 litres of energy per 100 km for every 100 watts. If we sum up the power of all the lamps that are used to illuminate the vehicle, we get a result between 170 and 280 watts of the electricity used to illuminate the vehicle during the day. On average, this is about 235 watts, for which we use about 0.4 litres of fuel per 100 km. At an average consumption of 7 litres per 100 km, this represents 5.7% of the fuel consumed, which is not a negligible proportion at all. In Slovenia there are about one million motor vehicles and we probably underestimated the result if we assume that each of these vehicles transports annually in conditions of good visibility about 10,000 kilometres. For mandatory daily lighting after this calculation, each vehicle uses an additional 40 litres of fuel per year and all Slovenians together have as many as 40 million litres, which costs us round about 40 million euros. However, these additional costs do not take into account the costs of spent lamps. Even more important than the price itself is the additional pollution of the environment. 40 million litres of carbon dioxide caused by combustion could reduce annual emissions of carbon dioxide by eliminating the use of daylight. If you are proposing in spite of our arguments, you are convinced that the mandatory lighting of the day cannot be completely denied without delay, but we suggest that you consider at least a transitional compromise solution in the direction that mandatory lighting will be only on roads where the calculation speed is more than 70 km per hour, particularly outside the settlements. This would avoid at least those situations in cities where the lights on are clearly not more safe, but often even less security for other transport participants, because they are not sufficiently visible because of the more visible cars. In the Truth Group – a new policy will also be supported in anticipation of the implementation of our proposals for a law at first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Janez Ribič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u8	Hello! Dear Mr. Secretary, your honors are here! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support solutions that impose more stringent sanctions, sanctioning drivers for offences that are directly related to the worst consequences of traffic accidents due to alcohol, drugs and other psychoactive substances, speed overruns and so on. We ourselves have already proposed a stricter speeding penalty this year on the other side of the highway, so we think a thousand 200 euros in fines and 18 penalty points are appropriate for the worst offenses. We propose to re-examine whether the penalty provided for in Article 40, EUR 500 and 5 penalty points is sufficiently high and proportionate in view of the many fatalities at unsecured railway crossings. We support solutions to protect weaker road users such as pedestrians, children, disabled persons and older road users. It also makes sense to reduce fines for offences that do not significantly affect road safety. We support all measures that will increase the safety of road users in order to achieve the goal set in 2011 on Slovenian roads to maintain at least 154 lives. Nevertheless, it is necessary to listen to experiences and warnings regarding certain provisions that may have adverse effects, such as the mandatory wearing of helmets for all bikers. Experience from some countries shows that this measure has not increased the safety of bikers but has only reduced the number of bikers, which is certainly not the purpose of this provision. At the same time, it may also mean increasing motor traffic and environmental pollution. Therefore, in some countries they preferred to pursue more modern solutions to the construction of roads that are more friendly for bikers. With this dilemma, it is necessary to envision and plan and accelerate the new construction and regulation and reconstruction of roads, which will allow for safer cycling for cyclists as well. The worst situation is in cities where cycling paths are only partial, they cross and end in the most endangered places, so cycling is a real adventure. Without the regulation of roads, crossings and signalling for cyclists, helmets also do not mean a safe solution. Without severe penalties for driving too fast and recklessly overtaking the mandatory wearing of protective clothing will not save the lives of reckless and daring motor bike drivers. Until further consideration, it is also important to examine the purpose of deleting the provisions on causing accidents as qualified forms of offence, which is also noted by the Criminal Procedures Division of the Supreme Court. Such a solution is unacceptable and does not contribute to the achievement of the objective of the law, which is a more stringent penalty for causing accidents. With regard to the minor conditions for the detention of drivers and the exceptions to the detention procedure, with regard to the appropriate prevention of the driver's participation in traffic and the like, where a policeman is given a discretionary right to decide when to detain the perpetrator and when not, it is necessary to examine whether the provisions are sufficiently clear and appropriate and to ensure adequate supervision of the exercise of that right. Since this is a sensitive area of interference with personal freedom, we welcome the extensive explanation provided by the applicant under Article 24 of this Act. Members of the Slovenian People's Party trust the expertise and competence of the Slovenian police, yet we are reserved to determine the discretionary rights of repressive authorities. We therefore propose that, despite the proposal's contrary arguments, appropriate supervision and proportionality of the determination of such rights should be ensured and that they should be defined as precisely as possible by law. Members of the Slovenian People's Party agree that the powers of municipal directors must be defined in a taxi and more clearly, while at the same time reminding us that the provisions and powers given to officials in Article 15 must be reconsidered, whether they comply with the Constitution, with other laws, human rights and the protection of personal data, the rights of parents and other provisions relating to all these rights. In particular, security will continue to require constant alerting, awareness-raising and education for non-violent communication by all actors in transport. Transport security and stricter penalties concern virtually all citizens and citizens, so we need to provide them with an overview of all the new developments and more severe penalties – best by issuing a handy brochure sent to all households. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Anton Urh. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr President, Mr Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The proposed Road Traffic Rules Act, which amends certain road traffic rules, wants the Government to maintain at least 154 lives by the end of 2011, and generally increase the safety of all road users. That is why I also fully agree with the views put forward by Mr Marinič on the opposite direction of the highway. Much better it would be possible to place some obstacles than just monetary sanctions, because driving on the highway in the opposite direction always leaves a lot of victims and if the government wants to reduce it, which is also right, then let it use some of these things that are better than just sanctions. Therefore, the drafting of the law provided for stricter sanctions for drivers under the influence of alcohol and psychoactive substances and over-driving drivers. The proposal also makes it mandatory to write the minutes in case of a refusal of an alcoholisation test and to extend the seizure of a motor vehicle to other serious road traffic infringements, such as driving at the time of temporary withdrawal of the driving licence. If the law is passed, the helmet will have to be used by all bikers. We are at this point in the DeSUS Group in a bit of an awkward surprise about the reaction of civil society, which is strongly protesting against these legal provisions. We wonder whether wearing a bicycle helmet is so disturbing that fewer bikers will choose this pleasant and healthy sportrecreational activity. We would expect that unhindered adults will set the example for children and young people that each traffic operator must take care of his or her own safety to the best of his/her ability. At the same time, the law also provides for the relief of certain provisions. If the driver who is authorised to carry out a medical examination, a rehabilitation programme and does not commit a worse offence, he will be able to request the suspension of the driving licence. The news is also a milder condition for detention. A police officer will not be required to detain an alcoholic driver if the driver is taken by a vehicle or if this happens in the immediate vicinity of the driver’s residence. The retention conditions for all drivers are also equivalent to 0.52 milligrams of alcohol per litre of breathable air. The most obvious change in the proposal for a road traffic law is the increase in certain penalties. Thus, from 380 to 200 euros, the penalty for speeding is increased by more than 40 kilometres per hour on the road outside the settlement, except on fast roads and highways. Also, when the law was passed, it would be strongly encouraged to exceed the speed on a fast road or highway by more than 50 kilometres per hour, if the penalty is now 300 euros, later there would be a thousand euros. 100 % of the incentives are also promising in the case of very dangerous overtaking of vehicles. If the driver were to jump under the top of the clan, before the curve or bend, where there is not enough distance, the sentence would be a thousand euros, compared to 500 now. And driving under the influence of alcohol will be more expensive in any case. The lowest penalty was 300 and the highest one thousand 200 euros. Here, too, we have quite a few concerns in the DeSUS Group. A thousand 200 euros for socially weak people seems to me to be much, much too much or too little for those who are better placed. In general, in the DeSUS Group, we do not oppose the imposition of punishment because we are aware that people are the most disciplined when they promise to be hit by something in our pocket. Nevertheless, it seems reasonable for the applicant to consider taking into account the material situation of the individual in the measurement of the level of the penalty. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the bill in the hope that it will really help improve safety on Slovenian roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by the Victory of the Jelinčič Trimeniti.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u12	Nice hello to you all! The law is certainly necessary, but it has a number of strange solutions, which are also often cross-examined with human rights, freedom of participants in transport and many more. For example, look at drivers who will be charged 300 euros in fines if they have up to 0.50 grams of alcohol per kilogram of blood or up to 0.24 milligrams of alcohol per litre of breathable air. Including up to 0,0 to 0,24. That means the police will decide for themselves when to punish someone. That means discretion. Someone who doesn't like him, who just smells like alcohol, will say, "Yeah, it's up to 0.24 milligrams." This is said to be a penalty of 300 euros. In short, he's not assigned to this segment. If we move on. When marking the pedestrians, it says that the pedestrian who will walk outside the village will have to carry a white light, visible from the front and back, and so on, on the side facing the driver’s seat. Imagine an old woman somewhere in a village who will walk down the road from the field at night, and she will have to have a real lamp hanging on the right side, which she will light up, or she will be covered with 40 or 80 euros in fines. Let's move on. In the case of safe stopping and parking of the vehicle, we have even a provision on how to open the door. Interestingly, it says that the vehicle door must be closed while driving. It's like it's raining outside, you have an umbrella, but if there's no direction on the umbrella when you go to the rain, "Open the umbrella!" then you can't open it, or what? In short, very funny. I'd say we'd expect him to write with which leg we get out of the car first, because if we don't step on the right foot at the beginning, we'll be fined 80 euros for that offense. We have a restraining order. All right, all right, but it doesn't say anywhere that it's illegal to outrun trucks on highways hunting, who's gonna outrun someone one kilometre an hour a speeding difference between two trucks. Such trucks are certainly hampering traffic, maintaining traffic, placing an environmental burden on the environment because they are followed by columns, making drivers nervous and indirectly affecting the possibility of an accident. However, this has not been taken into account in this law. It would be reasonable to allow roads where traffic is not hampered to turn to the right, regardless of whether there is a red light. This way the traffic is relaxed, it does not stop, it does not make any stoppers, as is the case when we have a circular intersection in Slovenia, the only one in the world that has a circular intersection, which is semothed. The circle intersection or like the English who invented it say around about, is just to make traffic run faster, but not to have six semothed blocks inside, where they stop, and they drop, and they stop, and they let go, and so on. And if anyone's been to Paris, he'll be able to see that there's no problem around Arc de Triomphani, no traffic jam in that circular traffic, and there's no line. But you have to drive with your brains, not with your imagination. And we're on a different matter when it comes to speed. They're terribly limited in speed. The lowest speed is already over the city 50 kilometers per hour, and then every time we have a table around the city, even in Ljubljana, where speed is allowed 60 kilometers per hour or 70 kilometers per hour. The number of accidents did not decrease because the speed in the city fell from 60 to 50 kilometers per hour, but this is the speed that the English had in the first half of the 19th century on their streets, at which time about 25 miles per hour was the maximum speed allowed. And now we've come to the same thing. At the beginning of this term, the government promised to regulate the speed of driving differently on motorways than it is now. Now the limit is 130 kilometers per hour, and many times it happens that the road is absolutely empty, and God forbid it to drive 150 kilometers per hour. However, we know that the current cars are much more powerful than the previous ones, much safer than the previous ones. We have the roads we have, but in such a case, the ride could also be released to go faster, not to block and to limit and not know what else to do in such matters. When I was talking about howling to the right, it would also make sense to take into account that in England you can safely turn back on a road that has a double line in the middle, only if you don't interfere with traffic. It's left to people and common sense. As this law shows, gentlemen in the government have decided that Slovenians do not have a healthy mind and that we do not know how to think, so we need to define everything, as when you drive, that the doors must be closed. Logically, the door has to be closed. Then we've got a detention thing going on here. A police officer will have the right to decide when to hold someone. And already this detention of people is an unconstitutional and serious violation of human rights. Let me tell you a case that happened in Murski Sobota, a little while ago, but the police stopped one lady on a bicycle that was a little wobbly, she was really grounded, but they took the lady to detention. She was, I think, 72 years old, and she had to lie on those police floors overnight. And the lady was even a foreign citizen, a German citizen, married to a Slovenian. That's nice, wonderful, because it's strange that they haven't beaten her yet, because maybe in the next marriage, there'll be a fight between those who stick to him. But we release criminals, and that's not the problem. Someone who rides a bike a little bit on fire, and we're gonna lock him up and make the best of him. The helmets on your head for all the bikers. I think it's a stupid measure, a very stupid measure, and maybe it would be better if we prescribed armor for all the kids who walk on the sidewalks when the bikers ride between them. The helmets on the head brought nothing special, no greater safety, but they did bring wonderful benefits to those making helmets. It is also mandatory to use appropriate protective motor clothing for the driver and the passenger of the motor mate. This is very nice, and also the most beautiful for tourist places, where someone will have to drive in with a viper and charge his girlfriend back to take her down a bit to the shore, put her almost in a suit, put her helmet on her head, to drive 15, 20 meters, and then down again and against the top. In short, very, very lifeless all of it. Then it's speed. I've talked about speed before, but it has to be said that it doesn't kill speed – it kills obstinacy on the road. To overcome obstinacy, it is necessary to cultivate, but this law does not. This law is prepared for some to have as many opportunities as possible to overwhelm someone they do not like, or to heal their complexes, which some have in other places. Here we come to the authority of the local government, where one would ask, with what kind of education they have such great powers. They'll be able to control everything, they'll be able to do everything, and I miss that they'll still be allowed to have weapons, and they'll also have a permit to use firearms, to have phasers, and I don't know what else. It's Slovenian legislation. We go to a police state where we don't allow people to think with our heads, but we prescribe to them all that gentlemen in power are afraid of. He's afraid of common sense, he's afraid of smart thinking, he's afraid of the smart choices that people usually make. The fact is that the reduction of traffic accidents and fatalities is not due to any measures. There will also be no reduction due to these high penalties, but these high penalties will hit people hard. And maybe that's also the purpose, to fill the state budget in this way too, through the editors, through the cops, and I don't know what. Although I think that the police are much smarter than the government services that are proposing such laws, they will do more with their lives than the Slovenian government does. It is interesting, however, when they limit these things everywhere, but they do not limit things when driving police vehicles, which is, of course, smart and correct. However, there is also an incomplete article: vehicles of state authorities. Sometimes vehicles of state authorities had an advantage. And even now, if, let's say, someone is driving to the airport and had a meeting earlier, I will not mention the cases of a minister who, with a blue light, drove on the highway, which I don't think is special, and this is normal everywhere around the world. But let it also be stipulated in the law that such vehicles also have a certain advantage on the road and that they can also use the blue light. There are a lot of things that still need to be done, especially to consider certain things, to find different starting points, not administrative ones, not bureaucratic ones, but lifelike ones. However, such solutions are very difficult to expect from the Slovenian government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Miran Jerič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. Honourable President of the National Assembly, Minister with Fellow Members, Fellow Members and Fellow Members! Improving road safety must be a permanent task for all transport policy holders, and the main final objective should be no more lost roadlife and no more disability due to the consequences of traffic accidents. Unfortunately, in Slovenia, despite the marked improvement in traffic safety and the transport culture of road users is still far from the most safe and regulated Member States of the European Union. However, we need an effective and rational road safety system that has the decisive impact of a professional decision to bring this objective closer as quickly as possible. For the current somewhat outdated system, it is typical that professional positions have been repeatedly pushed aside and that politics has been too reckless in the system, due to daily policy objectives. It is only necessary to remember how many times in Slovenia alone has been affected by the law governing or regulating road safety. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we support the professional and comparatively justified change of the entire transport safety system, the essence of which is the logical division of the current road safety law into four laws that regulate individually the field of traffic rules, drivers, motor vehicles and public roads. As a key point of view, however, we consider in particular the proposal for a regulation on drivers, which we considered on Friday, and the proposal for a law on road transport rules. The following changes and developments are essential for the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia: stricter sanctioning of drivers, perpetrators of offences directly linked to the consequences of traffic accidents. It's alcohol, illicit drugs, psychoactive substances, speeding, etc. However, fines are reduced for offences which do not significantly affect road safety. Another time. The penalty for the temporary impoundment of a motor vehicle shall also extend to other serious infringements in road traffic, such as the driving of a time when the perpetrator is being punished for the prohibition of driving a motor vehicle, driving at the time when the perpetrator has been temporarily withdrawn from his driver's license or is being subjected to a security measure for the withdrawal of a driver's licence or a sanction for the termination of the driving licence. It is extremely important for us in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to introduce a new institute, namely the suspension of the execution of the driving licence. An individual who has already been granted an expiry date of a driving licence will be able to request a suspension of the validity of the driving licence upon compliance with certain conditions. However, the conditions will be checked and a specific rehabilitation programme will be carried out, and it will also not be able to commit a worse offence during the probation period. Fourth time. The law provides for mandatory use of a protective bicycle helmet for all bikers, i.e. not only for children, as prescribed by the current road safety law, but also the mandatory use of appropriate protection gears for the driver and the passenger of the motorcycle. The news is also an equalization of the conditions for detention in different categories of drivers, more than 1.1 grams of alcohol per kilogram of blood or more than 0.52% of alcohol per litre of breathed air and, of course, the discretionary right of a policeman or police officer not to order detention in certain cases. For example, if the place of the procedure is directly in front of the facility where the driver also resides. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we consider as extremely important the provision which provides for a mandatory test of the alcoholization of direct participants in a traffic accident. Unfortunately, such a rule and practice had not existed until now, if we had proven to have saved a certain life. In order to ensure the effective functioning of the updated transport safety system, it is also of utmost importance that the tax rulings of the municipal authorities are listed. This will eliminate the different interpretations of the scope of its powers and prevent disputes, and further eliminate the current lack of action by the police and also by the municipal authorities in certain cases. The news is something else, for some there may be more important ones that I have not counted, but we will certainly discuss them further in this general debate. However, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we have a positive assessment of the bill with all its innovations. It will strengthen the confidence of road traffic participants that other participants are also acting in accordance with road traffic rules. It will further strengthen the protection of weaker road users: children, pedestrians, cyclists and others, and in particular road users will be forced more than ever to defend road traffic, often manifesting the unheard of aggressiveness of participants in many emerging forms. This will increase the safety of all road users. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we will support the Proposal for a Law on Road Traffic Rules.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u15	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Janko Weber has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The Road Traffic Rules Act is certainly one of those who will try to improve traffic safety. And the goal set out in this law to really reduce the number of deaths by 154 is an extremely ambitious goal, and I think it is right that this goal is behind, because, after all, all of these measures that we take in this context are, above all, subordinated to the worst crimes that are taking place on our roads and are, after all, also the cause of these most terrible accidents that are taking place. Of course, it is all about speed, driving under the influence of alcohol and also driving under the influence of illicit drugs and, finally, driving in the opposite direction along the highway. These are the cases with which we all face too often in Slovenia over the last period. That is why this law will certainly bring drastic measures in this area, and I hope to predict that it will also make fewer victims. What really needs to be examined and examined is whether some of the provisions in this law should still be cleared below, and certainly also refers to how someone with the lowest personal income or someone who has an enormously higher salary than the smallest person who is in Slovenia at this point. This is a question which has not yet been cleared at this stage of the drafting of the bill. I think that we should make a lot more effort to try to solve this problem too in a way that someone who has an extremely low salary will not actually pay the fines for the rest of their lives, but someone else will, say, settle it in one month or maybe in one year. The reasons against it or the arguments against it should be, if more, the speed of the imposition of measures, the penalties would then be lower or slower. Of course, it is also necessary to adapt our justice system, which could be substantially faster in such cases then also impose penalties on those with smaller assets, less wages, and the same for those with higher wages. It will also be possible to examine this part of the legislation if we are to achieve that we will at least deal with all road users in a comparable way somewhere, even when it comes to charging offences and the consequences of this punishment on an individual. He also warned on the part of the bikers themselves, whether the mandatory helmet is yes or no or the penalties for use or the opposite direction of riding on the bicycle tracks. This is certainly one of those questions where we might need to go further, at least in the sense that we will not cause this law to cause someone to actually be afraid to get on a bike and go with the car to work or to the city. Therefore, further efforts must also be made here to further examine these penalties for cyclists. In particular, we must not achieve a negative or counter-effect in the sense that someone prefers to leave a bicycle at home and go by public passenger transport or even by means of a personal vehicle by their own actions. I think that these warnings and facts could probably make this law even better. However, I think, given what is currently being observed in our transport culture, it is probably necessary to increase the penalties for the worst offences and, on the other hand, this law also entails a reduction in the penalties for those offences that are not so fatal. Here this law has somehow taken into account the situation in traffic security. I would like to see something similar about these other issues that I have raised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The word is by Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! If I continue where colleague Weber ended up, we announced in the Slovenian People's Party that we would support the law. However, it is true that with some over-defined rules, we can do more harm than good. Above all, we will continue to work in the Slovenian People's Party to ensure that the law has more education and prevention than sanctioning. In particular, I am referring to this sentence and then to serving the sentence. It can happen and, of course, we do not want it, because life is made up of all wages, one way or another, but someone who has a minimum wage or has not received a salary, the entrepreneur has not received the paid work that he has done to Mr Tycoon, they have not taken care of what they should, so we must give the lowest personal incomes the penalty. A misdemeanor is a misdemeanor. Just as the courts have, and this would suggest to the Ministry that, until the second hearing, it should also provide for the possibility of doing so-called public work, which means that someone could also do that public good work on Saturday, Sunday, afternoon, which is out of their working time, but that would have a significantly more preventive and educational impact on the punishment. Preventively and educationally, it would also affect someone who has enough money and could pay 30 times as much as it is, and it doesn't mean anything to him. And because of such an enviable situation in society, because some scarecrows have 18 and 20-year-old kids can afford huge things, even threaten to let you get away with this fine with public service. On the one hand, those who can't, and on the other hand those who can, but can't, all can't be paid and money won. Unfortunately, it's not like that in our country many times, but it's the other way around. However, we propose that the Government consider this and introduce these possibilities for sanctioning and serving the penalty, which would make the law more normal. My mom's 82 years old, and I'm happy and proud of her, but I can't imagine we're gonna put a helmet on her head because she's still riding a bike. And as long as she does, she'll have a healthy life. There are some stupid things that need to be done. One great proposal they have in the world, turning right and so forth. I hope that the first consideration is also to try to exclude the good from this in the coalition and in the government. But today, because we are considering this law on road traffic rules, I want all citizens and citizens not to commit any violations and to arrive safely where they have gone. And to the President of the Gantar National Assembly, happy birthday.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Puksich. The word is Matjaž Zanoškar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u20	Thank you, Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! Yes, I think that every thing that has been done in the direction of improvement and to increase the safety of all road users and users is welcome. Of course, it is also welcome in this sense, which implies the law before us, which is under consideration, but I still have some concerns and perhaps a little different views from other debaters when it comes to this law. I have a problem with the fact that we want to apply the executive principle or the executive content, as well as the rise of penal policy, to road transport and to increase safety, which has repeatedly shown to citizens and citizens that the stick and finger have been raised and beware, if this happens, you will be punished with such a fine and so on. It would be more appropriate and more civilised for me if this law addressed and discussed more in terms of raising the culture of all actors in transport, in terms of education and education. It is true, of course, that this executive policy, which the law brings, also brings good benefits to our budget. However, it is certainly not one of the more humane facts and humane content that will contribute to a more tolerant and understanding sense and feeling of citizens and citizens. I am convinced that the framework of this law and the conviction of the success of this law should be seen and discussed, however, as to how much money will go from the road maintenance budget, the maintenance and elimination of technical obstacles, the elimination of all the black spots on the roads and this number, which is surprising, 113 victims in our country, is probably not only due to the use or use of excessive amounts of alcohol or the use of obesity, but also because the road network in Slovenia is very poor, that there are many technical obstacles, that there are many solutions that cause all these problems and also cause the number of deaths. For me, the law would be convincing if all these shortcomings and the road traffic improvement programme were also addressed here. The question is, how did this law go through some kind of intersectoral coordination? The irony is when we talk about this law, and let it be about the criminal policy that the police are supposed to be implementing, and on the other hand, we are dealing with it and we are discussing that we will end the police administration in Koroška so that there will not even be a traffic police in Koroška. Then this law will not apply to Koroška, even if some new standards for criminal policy are being established. That's a question, too. Most of all, I am convinced that all these effects could be achieved to a large extent and perhaps much better and much more civilised by starting to intensively remove all these obstacles, investing more money in the maintenance of the entire road network. See, some of our regions are so much neglected and in these regions, if we go to analyze all the deaths, then we can see that it is not only what this law foresees, it is not just a criminal policy, but much depends on the technical competence of the roads themselves. Nevertheless, we believe that there will be plenty of opportunities in the Road Bill to say something about this. This would give me a global comment on this law, while individual solutions are certainly acceptable and I will support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The word is "Silven Tiny." Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The law does not justify adoption by content, as it only refers to sanctioning drivers, but does not address the modernisation of roads and regimes that would essentially prevent road traffic violations themselves. The law covers the area of road traffic rules regulated in this law, in the field of drivers, in the field of vehicles, in the field of roads. In fact, there is a smooth flow and protection of the environment. Responsibilities have shifted to local communities and to the responsibility of parents, caregivers and foster parents, drivers, but what employers have to do with this is not explained enough. Not all the current measures have achieved the desired objective, as they were built on sanctioning only all the time. In short, at high monetary penalties, which only filled municipal and state budgets, the basic purpose of the punishment was not achieved. What this effect will achieve is not specifically mentioned in this law. It is interesting that all participants in transport comply consistently with the rules as soon as they cross the border, even though the penalties are lower, and with us they drop the brakes despite the higher penalties, so I think that it is not a solution to the high penalties, but to the perception of the culture of drivers, which you do not learn overnight, but it starts in kindergarten, which means that in the later development cycle it is self-evident. Over-democracy is reflected in young people as anarchy, especially in traffic, when no sanctions stop them, only a bad experience, which usually ends in a hospital. Experts also recommend some disciplines to be used to release adrenaline to young people and to those who, after a certain period of time, for driving knowledge to be re-completed. Because the rules mentioned are a constant and offer nothing new, so it is essential that the law be upgraded with content that will have not only a financial but also a security effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Dr. Gonch has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, respectable colleague! I believe that the proposal for a law on proper road transport is systematic and quite thorough, but I believe that all those comments that have been made in the presentation of the views in the context of the debate are justified, and I hope that they will be taken into account to some extent in the further procedure for the adoption of the law. Otherwise, the question is whether to deal with prevention or sanctioning anymore, but I know that this law points to one another and I do not see any major problems from this point of view. Personally, I think that without a slightly more drastic sanctioning, unfortunately, we will not be able to overcome some problems, but as has been pointed out several times before, human life is the most important and from this point of view I support such a concept. However, I am asking the question, which has also been raised repeatedly, whether the imposition of a penalty in such a form is a suitable solution or should be used in some cases from other countries, for example, we may be most familiar with the Scandinavian or Finnish model, but there are other solutions where penalties are imposed on the basis of some percentage of the remuneration of an individual. I am sure that in our case this option would be more welcome. The fact is that personal benefits are, unfortunately, still relatively very different from ours and, as has already been pointed out, perhaps for the rest of our lives, some would not be able to pay back the fines they would have given them. It is my opinion that we should clearly place some lower censorship, some lower framework that everyone must pay; therefore, those who are not currently employed cannot afford to commit violations and then refer to the lack of remuneration. Undoubtedly, the lower censorship is necessary and necessary, but I think that a percentage approach to punishment would be a better solution. Well, since we're more pointed this way, I hope that the expert team will check this option from this point of view. But I do have one question. I think it's a lapsus or I don't understand this dictatorship very well. The fourth paragraph of Article 44 states that a fine of EUR 40 shall be imposed on a driver who does not need a driver’s license in breach of the provisions of this Article. I think that this "no driver's license" doctrine is superfluous, or I misinterpret the provision of this law. That, by the way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The word is "silva blackugelj." Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. This marriage proposal, as well as most of the marriage proposals that we are considering in the National Assembly not only today, but in general, has caused quite a number of dilemmas, and in some cases not only disillusionment. I can say for myself that the marriage proposal, which somehow follows the objectives that have been set, and unlike my very critical colleagues, I could say that in fact the law can receive great praise because of all those creators and stakeholders who co-created and prepared the text of the law. It is certain that there is no ideal marriage, just as we humans are not ideal and, finally, not our actions. However, to produce so much material and also some sub-legal acts means that the seriousness of the approach taken by those involved in the preparation of the legal material was extremely high. It is normal that helmets are those that have caused a lot of noise, media excitement and even the ignorance of individuals, and for some helmets are very important. Those who have come from the cycling network believe that already in some way the handicapped part of cycling, in particular in the inner city and cities, will be slowed in some way; however, we need to know that our country has set high objectives for the protection and protection of individuals and that helmet is welcome. Whether the fines are too high or too low — time will show us our own, we have already witnessed that we have changed some of the fines under the influence of practice. But I think that a lot of women would be more pleased with the fact that they're still alive, that their hair should be cut in one way. That's it. I hope that this law, like all the laws prepared by this ministry, will be successful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word is Marijan Pojbič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u28	Dear Mr. President! In opening, I must say what our representative of the Group of Members has already said in the position of the Group of Members, so that we do not support this law. We will not support it because I too personally assess that this law is trying to rebuild its objectives exclusively on penalties, which I do not think are the key ones that could solve such important problems in a way that would ensure better and greater security for everyone and everyone in our country. So if we just look at the penalty that's written for the most serious offenses, that's a thousand 200 euros, and that driver loses his driver's license, and the rehabilitation process is still in order. If you add all three things up, at the end of the sentence is not a thousand 200 euros, but the penalty for that driver is at least 4 to 5,000 euros, minimally if you take into account everything you have to pay so that the same driver can get back to the driver's license. So that's a big amount. And look, for those who have high wages and a lot of money, these are our Slovenian tycoons, this legislation does not apply again, because without any problem in a single amount it can pay off. What about poor people who have 300, 400, 500 euros in income? What about these people? Tell me, are these two groups in the same position? Isn't discrimination clearly exposed here? It is said that one who has 300, 400 or 500 euros in income or even less, will never again be able to get his driver's license back in his life. Never! Because this money for all these procedures prescribed by this solution — without earning it or saving it — is already on the verge of survival in this country because it has to take care of everything else that is essential to it. However, in a discriminatory situation against those tycoons who can pay this with a single amount, they bribe everything to come back again without any problem to the driver's license. And they will mock this complete discussion, this debate and all that we do in the National Assembly. And that's what really bothers me. That's one of the key reasons why I won't support this marriage. We can't always build everything on punishment. So on the one hand, people have to freeze all their incomes, not even those small ones who can't live anyway, and then they have to be punished for so long that they can't really live in this country anymore. That's unfair. This is an unfair way of ruling this government and looking at solving this problem in this country, when we know exactly that we have 100,000 unemployed, that we have so many and so many problems that are extremely problematic. So I can't even understand that this government isn't dealing with how to try to help these people get a job. You bring all other laws to the National Assembly, only those that are crucial to the future and the development of the country! And now we are going to the other part, which seems to me to be more important, because we should solve the problem in this law and from which we could draw significantly more positive: where and what we have done to improve transport infrastructure, what the state has done in this area. If we look at the budget and all that, we can see how much and what the country is investing in improving infrastructure, which is still important. I'm sure it's more important than all the punishments you've written down in this law. If we worked on improving transport infrastructure, many of those who died in traffic accidents would live today. I'm sure of that. I'm going to give you a few examples right now. I have also recently sent a written question to the Minister, and I think he will answer this question as soon as possible. This is a problem of unsecured railway crossings. From Maribor to Šentilj, I will read to you - there was now a meeting and a protest - what was written by the locals, who I personally strongly support. They wrote: "We are the local Rance, who live at three unprotected railway crossings. At the first unprotected crossing from Maribor-Sentilj, nine accidents have already occurred. The eighth in a row happened this year, on October 28th, where Mom and her six-year-old son died. Only a month later, it rested terribly again. There was a lot of material damage on the truck. The driver was lucky to have survived. Through the next unsecured passage, where the death victim is also recorded, he drives a bus with children every day." Do you know how many kids are on the bus? 50, 60! Half those who died all year! In case anything happens. "And so, with increasing fear every misty morning, when it is not possible to see a foot to the left and not to the right, we go Russian roulette. In September this year, when the Commission examined all these crossings, it found a number of irregularities. We want to know who is responsible for these irregularities and whether anyone will be responsible for it at all." These are the key issues, not that fine, not just punishment. This is where the country should imagine and start thinking differently about these things. Mr Minister, I think you've had a written question with you for at least 10 days now, and I expect you to answer that question in due course, so that we can see how to proceed. I will support these people to the end to come up with solutions that will be written on the skin of people, not the Ministry and not this country or this government. Then I have another very pressing problem in the congregation of Šentilj. Why am I talking about this? I am not just saying this because these open questions are in areas I know better. This is a problem that is problematic throughout the country. And we have a huge number of these problems with unsecured railway crossings in Slovenia. Also what I'm about to point out. In Šentilj we have a regional road where there is a left and right bus station. For 10 years, at least, we've been asking this country to allow us to make a pedestrian crossing from one side of the road to the other. Until this moment, I must tell you that we have failed. The reasons and the answers why this is not possible have been given to us by the relevant authorities. They said there was a low frequency of traffic from one side to the other. This is the absurdity of all absurdities to me! On one side is the bus station, on the other side is the station. There's a lot of schoolboys coming in from all over the valley on the bus. And then someone answers me in such a stupid way! So we're waiting for someone to run over, kill somebody again. That's when the government, the state and the authorities will act. Is that our goal? Is this the responsibility of those sitting in the National Assembly and those sitting in the government? Is our goal to discriminate against people? One is given the opportunity to be rich and continue to be rich and to do what they want, to live as small gods in this country, and the other is to drink a glass of wine, perhaps two beers, and eventually their whole life will be without a driver’s license. If this is the right course and if this is the right way of thinking for everyone and all those who are individually responsible in this country for the better and better future of our people! I think it's a huge mistake. These are the reasons why I am very angry about this bill. Let us for once think and solve the problem where it is key! If we do an analysis of how many of the people who were dead are actually alcoholized or drunk – they too, definitely, should be sanctioned, I agree, but then choose the way that colleague Göncz spoke about, it is said, to tie the penalty to the amount of income you have, so that we do not discriminate against them, to give everyone the same opportunity to come back to the exam; of course, if they go along all the way that is written in the law. I'm saying there's a few things in this marriage that are fine, but then there's two things or three things that spoil the whole story. If the government listened to a wider circle of people, including us, those who think in this way, also listened to us in further consideration of this law, then we could take an important step forward in this area. But without saying at the same time what will be done on transport infrastructure, what will be improved there, and how much money will be spent on it, then this is a debate without a basis, without adequate data. And just saying that we're gonna do it to do it is not enough. People here have been dealing with this thing for ten years, which I've been talking about, they had to organize themselves, and they said stop this country, this way, and the country's attitude towards us. For the country is not a country of Members and Government, the country is a country of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, all those who live on this land. And we would do well to be able to care for everyone equally. I think it's our joint mission, our common goal. And when we think about it this way, we will not share in green, red, yellow, and I do not know any more, orange, rather than where we see that we are obliged to take care of our citizens and citizens, step together and look for the appropriate solutions that are written on the skin of most Slovenes and Slovenes. This is our task - and this is the path I support, but not that in every law we make new discrimination, open up new problems and make differences between people. This is a system that comes from the previous party system, where every morning an individual was assigned to call the police with the appropriate authorities, and informed them: "You know, these important officials got a little drunk yesterday, and they are subject to different laws." This can no longer be in this democratic system. I'm sure we've taken this step. Slovenia is a small country, we practically all know each other here and it is right to be aware of it and help each other and step together. This is the right way out of what we have now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Patrick Vlačič asked for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u30	I'll answer some level-crossing questions directly, and I'll answer them later, if you don't mind. Level crossings are definitely dangerous. Let me also answer your question. I also spoke to the mayor of the municipality yesterday, and we agreed to go take a personal look. We have a commission for the level crossings that proposes measures and in this particular case has proposed measures. The proposal for measures was such that two level crossings would be abolished and only one would be maintained in order to protect itself and connect to accessible roads in such a way that three level crossings would no longer be necessary. There are three level crossings at two kilometres, which is very large. Normally, in a country less than two kilometres away, there should be no military transition at all. Let me say that I, like you, care about the level crossings. In the Ministry, we are constantly engaged in some activities on how to resolve this. I've already made a number of suggestions, including my associates. One recent action was a review of all level crossings covered by the Andre Cross on the transparency triangle. Right now, we have data on all level crossings, demanding that this transparency and triangle be established. By the way, what's the main problem? The main problem is that this is not the crossing of the state road and the railway infrastructure, but are municipal roads, local roads, and therefore are responsible for the transparency triangles by municipal officials. We have decided to make education for municipal officials. This is a challenging area and we will prepare them in this way to be able to monitor these transparency triangles in a qualitative manner. I'm telling you, I'm gonna take a personal look at these three passages that are in this place. Let me say that we still have about 500 level crossings that are secured only by the Andre Cross and what I would like to do in the future is because it's such a busy financial resource to make these Andre crosses more visible. You may remember, last year we had an action of preventive nature for the Andre cross, but in the perception of people there's an Andrea cross traffic sign that's not as strong as a stop sign or a red light. That is why we will try, we are looking for ways to make this possible to be illuminated, to also otherwise increase security until the crossings are such that they are either out-of-command or secured by prisoners. However, we regularly eliminate them, but those for whom we will now assess that they pose a possible increased threat will be dealt with in particular. This is certainly such that it deserves attention, and my wish is to have at some point as high a level of security as possible. However, I have been informed that according to the number of out-of-military crossings that we have secured with prisons, semi-prisoners or only with the Andre Cross, we are not lagging behind the most developed countries in terms of the ratio, but I am not satisfied with this. I am not satisfied with this, especially in areas where it appears that security needs to be further enhanced. I will personally look at them and we will find solutions for such and similar cases that pose a danger to people. After all, my wish is the same as yours: that the level of safety is as high as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The word is Mirko Brulc. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u32	Nicely greeted. We usually go wild on our own roads when we go abroad, and we are willing to follow the rules and behave in a completely different way. Unfortunately, we are only dying of punishment, and this is a sign that we are not yet some mature society and that all the great punishments will somehow put us in order. This law is, of course, absolutely necessary and I will support it, but I would like to point out that in Slovenia we are sometimes, as we call it, legitimate, as we have shown when the laws relating to the HACCP were passed, when we are talking about nature and more, and then we find that things are actually incomparable with other parts of the countries in Europe, but also impossible, but very restrictive, very restrictive. Today, quite a few comments were made on the situation as it is on the ground. The traffic restrictions with traffic signs were mentioned here in Ljubljana, and then you drive across the city in Ljubljana, and if you want to reach the green wave, you have to drive fairly fast and so on. These mistakes can be avoided and saved, but it takes a lot of energy to do so. These were accompanied by a group of children — 15 of them can be found. See, it is quite logical that teaching staff with occupational safety exams and other skills are equipped and can monitor children and know exactly what it means to get on the bus, get off, and so on, that there is no safer railway, or something can happen to us there; or that the train station is countless times away from the event where the children are headed, and again we have to step on the bus and so on; that we also have other activities at school that are not only connected to traffic, and that the responsibility of teaching workers is very great. They're aware of that. All I regret is that this is not further evaluated in salary as well. I am pleased that certain matters have been precisely defined, which relate to municipal officials. This law on editors has been passed relatively quickly, incompletely, responsibilities are extremely great, including mayors, but now it has been slowly getting in order and I welcome it. Today, bicycle helmets have been mentioned several times, mandatory use in the city and, of course, is questionable and will need to be carefully considered. I have been in several countries where cycling is very present: Denmark, the Netherlands and so on. You see a lady who drives, literally to an evening event, to a concert, anyway, because she's dressed like that, or with a bouquet of flowers on her bike — she doesn't have a helmet. However, I do not approve of the fact that the helmets would not have those who drive on the main roads and other very dangerous routes that are not cycling paths. It was said that it would be right for all households to receive this law when it was adopted. I fully agree with this, because it is a true textbook; not for you to know that if I go wild, I will pay such and such a punishment, but for you to refresh all drivers and drivers of your knowledge how to behave in the event of an accident in the circle and so on, which is some news in this traffic. This would also contribute to education, as I know that kindergartens, schools and secondary schools do a lot in the field of road transport education, but that we really need to think, as colleagues Weber said, about penalties. We can't say now that this one is socially endangered, and he can drive drunk, but he can drive wild on the roads, and he'll pay the minimum penalty anyway. This is not the case, but it is – and the courts already know how to order – public works to compensate for that fine with some useful work. However, I think that the causes of serious traffic accidents should go to Soča, as we know her, or to a hospital, or to see what they actually caused if they are not fatal accidents. Well, I'm also thinking about auto schools, but that's not the point of this law when the instructor or the owner of the school, if he reaches a maximum number of penalties in private driving, he also gets a license. I don't think that's fair, he can have a company, but he won't be able to teach – I agree with that. I mean, when we really talk about these socially endangered people, that everyone, including those who are better placed, can avoid serious penalties only with smart driving, with caution, if we do not drive blamelessly, if we follow road traffic regulations and so on. So that those who are socially at risk or who are going to school — with a sense of discretion, they must be aware of that. [[...]] I will support the law in this first reading with the desire that some of the things that have been here on both sides of this parliamentary obelisk will also be prepared in a new reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Marinic? Please, although you have not been mentioned, Mr Marinic. Why do you want a replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u34	From the point of view of the SDS Group when I spoke about the rules on teaching escorts in the transport of a group of children [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u35	Good. You're on.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u36	Maybe it's a misunderstanding, maybe I wasn't precise enough. I have taken up the draft rules on pedagogical escorts for the transport of children, which I have taken up in Article 4. Here I have taken up the content of this Article, which imposes responsibility on accompanying groups of children, and I would like to stress that the safety of children is the responsibility of the carrier who carries out bus transport, not the task of those who order the service. That's what I wanted to point out. If you take such a group by train, in no case will the companion take responsibility when entering or leaving the train and here is a key question. Nowhere, in any regulation, does a sub-law on the carriage of children by rail state that escorts must be accompanied by children — unless public institutions write it themselves — that is another. This law is a regulation imposing upon these escorts the responsibility that escorts should not assume because they are not transport organisers, the transport organiser must assume responsibility for safe entry and exit. That's what I wanted to point out.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The word is Franci Kek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. We will support the proposed law by taking into account some of our proposals, as our editorial said. I would point out one that I've heard of being conditionally favored by Minister Vlačič, which is a safe turn at the red light at the intersection to the right. This proposal is good from an ecological point of view — namely, that the vehicle does not stand without necessity and release harmful substances — in view of the cost of the driver’s time and also facilitates the speedy cleaning of the intersection. This arrangement is not new in the world, not only in some exotic countries, but also in the United States. We know that there will be a variety of objections, if, perhaps, this is too dangerous, but how will they go over the red, but if you think about when the driver has a green light to turn right, he has to make sure that he is not at any pedestrian crossing, and despite the green light he has to stop. Here, when it has red, you can see if it can safely drive across the intersection, and it can also drive. We know that this arrangement cannot be implemented tomorrow, we know that it will take time, and we expect the proposer to set a period in which this arrangement could also be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word is Matevž Frangež. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u40	Respected and respected. Let me add to the debates so far in this law, which is undoubtedly necessary and which I think is in an appropriate and comprehensive manner trying to regulate new rules in road transport, but a few points where my opinion is perhaps slightly different from that of the applicant. Above all, this refers to the role and importance of bikers. We know that we are living at a time when we need to think seriously about sustainable mobility, which is one commitment that I know is in common with the Minister of Transport, when we need to think comprehensively about what the future of our co-operation will be, even in the transport field. This is particularly true for all urban centres where I think we need to support and develop alternative modes of transport more than ever before. In this respect, the Ministry of Transport has already launched extensive activities to establish integrated passenger transport. However, I think that more bets should be placed on cyclists, on foot and also give them adequate attention, especially in urban transport. The measure provided for in this Act, i.e. the compulsory wearing of bicycle helmets, does not contribute to these objectives. The countries that have introduced such a measure, such as Australia, are testifying to a 30% reduction in cycling, which I do not think is something that contributes to people choosing such alternative modes of transport. The Association of Cycling Networks in Slovenia has provided a series of ideas on how to better integrate bikers into the traffic, and they have also served with some rather revolutionary ideas. They themselves represent the thesis, according to research in Germany and France, that, in fact, the safety of bikers should be increased when they are actually integrated into road transport and, in fact, less by building the necessary cycling infrastructure, especially cycling routes. In doing so, they refer mainly to the findings that the number of bikers here ensures their safety in road transport. In the debate so far, some discussers have also drawn attention to other aspects of criminal policy. We know that penalties are similar to taxes; they are said to no longer achieve their goal at some point — and this is preventable. I pick up some hitchhiker a couple of times, and last time, I have to say that I've had an interesting experience when this talker, the stopper I picked up, told me about my hobbies. And you won't believe it! In this country, there are obviously more groups of young people who drive strong, normally processed vehicles, and compete with each other on the roads for significant bets. When something happens, it's a problem. And such adrenaline pleasures, which could be compared to impersonation in traffic, can cause much, not only damage, but in extreme cases may also require human life; often also one that is so recklessly wild on our roads. This has inspired me to think that perhaps we should think about criminal policy in this regard, that we are also trying to distinguish the personality, the frequency of the offenses. And the question, of course, is whether it is possible to compare driving 10 kilometers faster along the highway, or whether it is by its heinous behavior, unpredictable, reckless overtaking that poses a threat to other road users, as well as to its own health and life. And here I think it would be possible to set two scales: one of these scales would actually be different from the regular course of punishment in some way of repeating the same infringements, in repeating cases of heavy driving and so on. My colleague Pojbič has already pointed out the issue of the railway crossing in Ranca. I think this case has raised the attention of the wider Moroccan public. I am also pleased with the Minister's response that he is not only aware of the case, but that the competent commission at the Ministry of Transport is already studying the solutions. Such cases would indeed require an immediate reaction and an immediate action group to prevent such an accident from investing as soon as possible. The price of human lives in such disasters, which cannot be predicted and are not always dependent on the caution of road users, is too high to require us to act immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr. Žerjav has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. It is very interesting to listen to the debates and compare them with the debates that took place on the last amendment to the Road Safety Act when the roles of the opposition and the coalitions changed. At the time, this was before the 2008 State Elections, as Minister both in the Government and in the National Assembly, insisting that the Road Safety Act be adopted with substantially increased penalties. At that time, I was faced with terrible opposition in this house, working a police state to make an unprecedented criminal policy. I was involved in these criticisms in part in the government. However, I was pleased that the President of the Government supported me in this and that we then brought this law through the national assembly procedure. The result of that law was that in 2008 we reduced the number of deaths by more than 80 if I am not mistaken. The package, which was prepared at the time, led to a significantly increased road safety law, a vignette and the opening of new sections of highways, which led to significantly higher road safety. But here in the National Assembly I have listened since the opposition – it would be good to read the magnetograms, and I will not do so – from many who are sitting here today, sitting in coalition lines and speaking quite differently than they said at the time. I'm saying the same thing today. I'm in favour of this and I support you to raise your sentence for those worst offenses. And I don't agree with those who said, if you're drinking two syringes or two beers, it's not that bad. That's not true! It's bad. And these are the bastards, the irresponsible, who are endangering my life and the lives of all of us sitting in here. And we can't talk like that because it's irresponsible. I'm about to have such misdemeanors, who consciously go to the inn, drink beer, two, three, four, and sit behind the wheel, shut up. Because it's like putting a loaded gun in someone's hand and going to some place where there's a lot of people, and playing with a gun. It's exactly the same! And such thinking and this consciousness must be implanted in all road users. There's nothing else! When you get behind the wheel, you take responsibility for your actions. I support this law. I support all four laws that are proposed. However, it is important to know that these four laws were prepared in 2008, even during my ministry and the ministry of Dragutin Matei. I don't know if there have been any significant changes at this time since what was prepared at the time. Indeed, we committed ourselves to the adoption of the Road Safety Act in order to draft new legislation. And I know she was ready just before the end of our term. I don't know why it took almost two years for these laws to come into the national constituency procedure. There must have been reasons, but whatever. The previous government has drafted this legislation. What were the changes, I don't know. And there's one more thing. This time I'm talking like a biker. I've been in this sport since 1981. I've seen terrible accidents and the fall of my fellow bikers with a helmet and no helmet. Undoubtedly, the helmet is certainly an important matter. However, I think when we drive around the city like this, we would do a lot of damage if we demanded that the helmet be worn, especially so that cycling would not be used to the extent that it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr Jerič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Very briefly. I agree with most of the debate, Comrade Žerjev. I just want a few things in the debate to warn you. Today we are talking about one of the four laws that will be new in the field of transport safety, and in some ways it bothers me that Members say in their debates that we have taken care of only one measure, that is to say, a measure in the field of punishment, that we have done nothing in the area of prevention, road transport education, which also raises traffic safety. But we discussed this on Friday when we talked about the driver law, when we talked about how the road traffic prevention and training councils should be composed and what tasks they should perform as part of a civil society that is very important in raising traffic safety. On Friday, we also discussed the need, at least in our opinion, for another professional consideration of how transport safety content should be brought to school space or to secondary school space, which we finally committed ourselves to the national road safety programme we adopted in this Parliament from 2007 to 2011. This is not true that we are trying to raise traffic safety with penalties, but on the other hand we are talking about a number of measures. I agree that many measures must be taken to improve transport safety in the future and to reduce the number of accidents, reduce the number of losses and human lives, as well as, of course, reduce the number of persons affected by these accidents. The fact is that we have invested a lot in the area of roads, not only in recent years, but since the adoption of the national programme for the construction of motorways, especially in the motorway area, that the state road network has in some way been neglected. Of course, this has been corrected in recent years, but given the length of state roads, there will still be a lot of investment to make our road network the way I deserve it and, of course, we want it and that will also increase traffic safety through this measure. What I wanted to point out in the end is that I agree with some of the concerns or views expressed in the debate. In my opinion, the proposaler will examine this thoroughly. I hope that these proposals will also be examined by the professional public, and I do not want to judge some of the measures that I consider to be highly professional and better to get the position of the professional public in some way, but I agree in one point about the mandatory wearing of a bicycle helmet. I am also a cyclist myself, I always use it, but I think in some cases, in the case of this urban driving, that it is necessary to consider whether this compulsory use of a bicycle helmet is in place or not, but let us not only judge politics, but let it be judged primarily by the profession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u45	Mr. Marinic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. Surely, the Road Traffic Rules Act, one of these four new laws, is a law that deals with the largest population in the sense that we are the majority of drivers and drivers or one way or another, but I would like to draw attention to something essential that cannot be done without linking the content of the other three laws, so I will also come out of three other laws. However, I will lay the groundwork right in the Proposal for a Law on Road Traffic Rules. I will come from the fact that it is a violation of the worst consequences that have the most tragic consequences and is also defined in the content of the Road Traffic Rules Act, namely driving in the wrong direction. I wanted to draw attention to this in the position of the Group of Members, but there is not enough time if I wanted to cover as much content as possible, but now I will be very specific. What is the fundamental flaw in the content of all four laws or laws governing road traffic? I'd like to see that because we had the opportunity to monitor this publicly, the consequences of the worst traffic accident that's ever happened due to a misdirection, I'm going back to the Styrian Highway, the Styrofoam section. All the experts later dealt with how the accident occurred, why it occurred, was also an epilogue carried out by the relevant authorities, the case concluded in court; the driver was guilty because he was driving under the influence of alcohol. Now look where the rabbit's going. It is necessary to look at when a traffic accident with such severe tragic consequences occurs, and everyone must be directly invited to the scene of the accident, not later, to appear only in a medium and explain, but on the spot when such a tragedy occurs. And that's to find out the actual situation for the profession to join the committee. There should be experts on the various professions on this committee, a tour of the site of the accident and then, within a certain period of time, a report on guilt and responsibility should be drawn up before the case goes to the court or the prosecution. This Commission report would cover the facts and would make it clear from these reports whether only the driver is responsible for such a serious traffic accident. Where are the road managers? Where's the profession? Road designers? Through a practical example, I tried to illustrate that when this serious traffic accident happened in the wrong direction, something happened later, it is said, after the event. At that time, some began to find that if physical obstacles were to be placed in the middle of the vehicle — it is almost impossible for such a course to take place in the wrong direction. For if we follow the setting of these physical obstacles, practically the driver cannot turn left to go in the wrong direction, but this prevents him from carrying these obstacles, turning right and thus driving in the right direction. If this legislation, which we are dealing with today and we have done something on Friday, followed all of this, then it would be laid down that, not in every such traffic accident with the worst consequences at first, it would be a penalty or a fine of EUR 1,000 200, that it is 18 penalty points and a loss of driver's license, and so on, but rather to put the blame and liability issue first. And I really appeal to the Minister, to the representatives of the Government, to take this proposal seriously and to try to come up with professional conclusions on the eligibility of the appointment of such committees, which must be composed, I do not know, from the representatives of the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of the Interior, including the Ministry of Justice – I do not know. This needs to be examined, assessed and, in my opinion, such records and records of the commission on guilt and responsibility would contribute much more to reducing accidents with the worst consequences, without merely prescribing high penalties, as has been said many times already today when the content of the law on road traffic rules is being addressed. Well, and also with regard to Article 40, which deals with, if I am not mistaken, how do drivers of road users proceed before crossing the road across the railway line. Ways of securing road-rail crossings are one of the black points. Yes, that's right, paragraph 40, driving by car on the roadway across the railway line. I agree that a commission has been appointed here, but this commission has been operating for quite a long time and has been on the ground many times, especially after some serious traffic accidents, this commission is going back to orbit and once again the transition remains the way it is. Again, I propose that, in order to reduce the tragic accidents on the level crossings of the road across the railway route, it is necessary to cooperate exclusively and only with local communities, because the local community has to propose an optimal solution to eliminate the five Polish crossings, while road traffic is carried out in parallel with the railway line and then traffic is directed towards that crossing which is 100 % protected – either as an underpass or as an overpass. Prisoners, light signals, and I don't know what level-crossing device won't solve 100 percent of these cases. I would suggest to the minister who has taken it that, compared to the other EU Member States, we are not in any worse position here, but Slovenia is small and such a tragedy where, at the crossing of roads across the railway, the lives of mothers and children are lost is something most tragic. I've seen a lot of these cases directly because I've been doing this kind of work, and that's a story that's gonna last you your whole life, especially when you see a busload of kids hit by a train. For this reason, it is necessary to clean up, order and, instead of these minor crossings in cooperation with local communities, drive the road by the railway and drive them to 100 % of the protected roads across the railway. And I am convinced that here is the Ministry's priority in this sense of really wanting these black spots to be reduced in these places. Well, and maybe just a word, two about wearing a helmet. You know, the profession finds that it's good, funny or any way serious to see a little kid with a bicycle helmet or an older biker, I don't see any difference. Everyone should assess whether this is right or wrong, but the proposer is here without leaving for those who do not respect the legislation in this area in the sense that there is no fine, but it is mandatory to apply, so that we are responsible for our own security, in the first place. So much for that. Maybe there's something else about speed. I agree that on highways, we have almost new motorways, so that it would be right to go up to a higher level with these limits of 130 kilometers, because we have also moved to a higher level of technically completed, designed vehicles that have better stopping conditions. Whatever we look at from any perspective, it would be wise to avoid this provision that 130 kilometers are allowed on the highway and that we are finished here. Therefore, it may also appeal to the proposer to re-examine these contents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u47	Thank you. Mrs. Brunscoll. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u48	Thank you very much. How nice to meet you! Today's debates are very interesting and there is probably no one among us who would disagree with the support of the road legislation package. I will support this package of legislation myself. Increasing road safety is certainly an important fact, and especially in this context, the fact that we also want to reduce the number of deaths, and certainly reduce the number of accidents, since we must not forget that many people, including young people, who may be listening to us today, who are victims of traffic accidents, were not guilty at all, and are seriously injured, disabled, lying in bed, and their actual life has changed so that they cannot yet think. At the end of this June, I was personally extremely happy to finally complete the lower leg of the highway. Perhaps it is important that on every foot of this unfinished road, perhaps a little cruelly expressed, but not a desire for demagogism, but there really was a lot of blood on this road. The worst is the loss of family members and victims of accidents — many times innocent. Therefore, in connection with this law, which we are now talking about, the law on road traffic rules, when it comes to stricter sanctioning of drivers who are caught up in crimes committed, I am convinced that even at the bottom leg of some parts of it, it was also because of this kind of accident. I am also convinced that, on the one hand, we must take care of our own safety. However, if today I may be a driver, a road participant, or a pedestrian on the sidewalk, it is necessary to comply with traffic rules; also for those who may not be considered to be responsible to the extent possible, i.e. also for pedestrians. Much has been said about bikers in connection with wearing a bicycle helmet. I certainly support this in connection with motorists and motorists' clothes, although I am a sports car-moto fan, but we know where it is appropriate to carry out such activities – i.e. in protected areas and on the envisaged runways or racing sites – that the participation in road traffic itself is something completely different and that this increase in road safety is of real importance. There was also much talk or mention — not so much speech, perhaps in some part — about the jurisdiction of the congregation. I think that even in connection with this in cities, places, smaller places and if I just look at my area of the White Land; at first, people have not been so used to community service, but today I see responses that people have often appeared and said that they have also called their own officials in connection with the law on road transport rules and compliance with such legislation. As far as road safety is concerned; in connection with all this, we must not forget — but there may be something out there and something in connection with it — on the first school days in schools. In raising our young people's awareness, even at our national level, we may even need to be more obedient to those institutions, to those volunteers who, within the framework of the drivers' and auto mechanics' associations as retired drivers, police officers and others, voluntarily include our youngest in the direction of road safety. Here, too, as a member of some of these associations, I have noticed that they may not be so much observed and supported by a package of legislation that only some institutions, but those who actually stand and help, and practically, these societies, are even hard to function. I'm thinking of an association of drivers and mechanics. As a member, I also had the opportunity to monitor this and see here a road safety gap related to support for the subject, and I think there is also a need to take a few steps in connection with the package of legislation. This is my proposal, I am sure, this is just the first debate that we will come up with the right solutions to this. But since I am coming from the area – I was talking about the lower leg of the highway – and if we were already in the area of Dolenjska and the White Region, Posavja is the last to build the highway cross, but I am sure that things are going in this direction, but that they will be the first to be the first to build the third development axis, its southern part. We're united. We are talking a lot about the Slovenian economy, such as Krka and Revoz, but today Novo Mesto has no bypass, as well as further links to the White Krajina. If we want to have a coherent and balanced regional development, which we will also talk about briefly in Parliament, I am sure that in the field of road legislation, or priority in relation to the development of the Republic of Slovenia, we will finally have business for the South-East Slovenia area. In short, I will support the road legislation package as well as the bill on road traffic rules. Of course, it can always be our thinking why it has not already been, I agree, that the continuity of the work of the competent ministries continues, regardless of which government, which ministry, and that there is also a solution here to reduce the number of fatalities, all injured and disabled persons in relation to transport to a minimum. I am pleased that these steps have been taken by the Ministry and the competent services and that you have my full support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u50	Thank you, Chairman. I'm going to respond to things that have been exposed in some way. The regulations on pedagogical escorts are a draft which will have to be aligned with the Ministry of Education and Sport. In fact, under the provisions of the law, that ministry is responsible for that regulation. We are talking about the accompanying companions, not the driver as the escort, so that we will then clear this up in the rules, so that it will be perfectly clear. About the bike helmet. All these debates suggest that this provision should be amended by an amendment to make it mandatory for children and that the regulation will continue as it has been so far, with regard to other participants, cycling. About the light. I was thinking, too, that maybe we should consider stopping driving in the afternoon with the lights. We do, however, have the information produced by the European Union expert group. On the basis of a transparent study taking into account the positive and negative effects study, it was proposed to drive with the lights on, that the positive effects were greater than negative, that the fuel consumption increased by a percentage, not by 5%, as previously stated, and that the safety of those weakest participants, either pedestrians or cyclists, was therefore increased. About howling into the red light. That's what I've been thinking. I think there is a provision here that can contribute, on the one hand, to more ecological transport, on the other hand, to greater accuracy and so on. The opinions of experts are very shared here. Some feel that this would not be good, some feel that it would be good. Some experts argue that this is possible mainly in countries where high transport culture, for example, has California in the United States, while, for example, Arizona does not have it. But I think we should go this way slowly. We're thinking about kind of experimentally starting with this, and we would, for example, make an experimental intersection, where we'll then, with information and with effects, see how things run so that we don't jump into this pool right now, but first try how it works in practice. Regarding the fine in crossing the railway line, our assessment that it is balanced in law is that it is appropriate. With regard to the powers of congregation officials, we can reexamine them, but they are taxably mentioned in the law. As regards alcohol, as mentioned in the debate: the discretionary rights of a police officer are not whether or not he will withdraw or withdraw the driving licence between nothing and 0.24. This is related to the medical examination and to the physician’ s findings. About the marking on the pedestrian. The provision is the same as we know it in today's legislation, except that it is consistent with the concept of type-approval legislation. Opening doors is also a provision we know in current legislation. As far as motor equipment is concerned, it is a provision of preventive nature because it is without a criminal provision, and it also suggests that it should be considered, as is the mandatory use of helmets in bicycles. With regard to property punishment. The Act on Offences gives the Court the opportunity to give the offender a legal penalty in the judgment and to take into account the offender's property status: the amount of salary, other income, property and family obligations, which is also applicable to infringements under the Road Traffic Rules Act, for which a fine is prescribed in a high amount. That's a thousand 200 euros. However, all perpetrators may, where a fine has been handed down to them by a decision on the offence of the criminal authority or by a judgment of a court which, due to the property situation or its potential, cannot pay the fine, propose to the court that the fine be replaced by the execution of certain tasks for the general benefit or for the benefit of the self-government local community. In this way, the fine, which shall be replaced by the performance of the tasks in general benefit, shall not affect the perpetrator or persons to be maintained. Thus, the evidence that these high penalties will affect the socially weak is essential to this provision. Those who make such a proposal may, either by working in the local community or in general, be able to compensate for what they should pay with a fine. It's about parental responsibility. We already have in our current legislation a provision in which the child is not responsible. In the case of wrongdoing, parents or foster parents assume that responsibility. As far as the loss of a driver's license is concerned, we have here a slightly softened system with a check-up, with rehabilitation programmes, by not repeating the worst misdemeanors of a trial age. This shall put the measure aside and shall not be carried out after a successful expiry of the probationary period. The point of this provision is to go against our citizens who are ready for some activity in order to increase their participation in transport with regard to transport safety. In this way, it is not rigid legislation, but, on the contrary, it allows personalisation and allows for gentler punishment for those who are willing to do something. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u51	Thank you. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I'm opening the application. Mr. Bezjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u52	Thank you very much, chairman. Nice greetings to the Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you very much also to the Minister for the wax he gave me. Thank you. In my opinion, the bill on road traffic rules was necessary because the previous law actually needed to be amended. Somehow I think it was actually a law, if I can put it this way, old-fashioned, so it's important to make certain changes. As for thinking about cyclists, that only bikers would have helmets, older, experienced or middle-aged people, I think this is a smart idea. It would also be necessary to think about the elderly, I don’t know, over 60 years of age, that they may be required to wear helmets, for we know for ourselves that these people are more cruel and less capable than smaller children. Thus, I think that in this work too, it is necessary to think that older people should also be interested in helmets. He also discussed railway crossings. Yeah, it happens here from year to year. I am also of the opinion that it would be important to actually have these railway crossings, to take roads to those that are the maximum protected crossings, because if we set up a signal in the fields, you know for yourself that this signal does not affect 100% of the people in such a way as to prevent the death or serious traffic accidents that are taking place at these crossings. The bulk of this is ours for the transitions in the countryside, where in fact the consequences of the accident are very large. On the motorways export-import. I've analyzed it myself many times, I've been thinking why we have so much traffic on highways in Slovenia. I personally drive a lot elsewhere on the highways and I came to the conclusion that in Slovenia the entrances and exits to the highway are much too much. Almost every five kilometers we have them, and where there's an entrance and exit to the highway, there's traffic jamming. If you're driving down the Croatian highway, which is a nice number of miles away from the entrance and exit, then I think it would be wise to think at the construction of the third foot of the highway, so there wouldn't be so many entrances and exits, because it certainly slows down traffic along highways. Because of this – this is my thinking and the thinking of a few colleagues – it is so crowded on the highways of Slovenia that it actually crosses the entire transit. It is true that we Slovenians are used to the fact that everyone wants to have a highway by their own house or an entrance to a highway next to their own house, but I think it would be wise to think about how many of these are appropriate and how many is inappropriate. I also believe that in the study on the construction of the third arm, we should think about resting places, parking spaces for the transport of dangerous goods, because in these years, regrettably on the Koper-Lendava motorway, this has not been considered. I think the direction you've chosen is the right one. With individual [[End of discussion warning sign]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr. Kres has the floor. That red inscription didn't apply. It was a mistake. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u54	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with co-workers! I'd touch, for example, helmets. I would like to tell him my own experience, the experience of my family, when my son went to Lithium to the store 15 years ago, his wife ordered him what to do; he took the bag, that bag to the balance, drove home, walked away, fell on the sidewalk, smashed his helmet – but my son is healthy today. Well, in any case, the helmet is necessary. That is why I would limit myself here — when my colleague spoke about his mother when some talk about the ladies who go to work. All right, they're already people who are responsible for their actions, for their lives, and maybe here we can talk a little while for minors — mandatory. That way this thing could be done, and I'm sure it's the right thing to do. As far as speeding on the freeway is concerned, I would say once again that it depends primarily on our culture, on our adaptation. I have to say that I'm one of those drivers who drives by feeling, and I'm way too fast, but I have to knock, and I'm lucky everything's safe, because I've been able to adjust my driving on the road so far, and I've done things the way I needed to. But I have to say, some of our highways aren't suitable even for 130 kilometers. There are problems, I have been driving, and I must say that I could never have developed more speed, because, as I have already said, I am also driving after what is necessary. Of course, I also managed to drive over 130, of course, but not on certain parts of the road. What I'm trying to say is that we're going to be real and we're going to show the real picture. As far as stricter sanction is concerned, I am in favour of and support this matter. Of course, some people in our country are in such a high income position, when even punishment means nothing to them. I think that in such cases we should be given another form of punishment that can be more effectively touched, but of course there are also people who cannot pay according to the income situation they have, but it is necessary to think again in order to allow them in any other way to settle this penalty, which would also be effective. I think we have all these things and that there are ways that are possible and we can talk about it. As for the entrance to the right turn at the red, and I'll say it again, I support what you said was going into one experiment to see it. I was driving myself 15 years ago in California, and I have to say that I was right in these intersections, that I didn't have any problems, that there was no unnecessary commotion because in some intersections you could have turned into a crossroads, given whether it was empty. I have to say that we have on one side of the ugly drivers, we have on the other side, but I am sure that there are still more smart ones, and I think this matter could also be carried out in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr. Luke Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u56	Good afternoon. Thank you very much. Nice greetings to everyone else! I would point out four points and start with the question of the height of the sentence. Even as the previous term of office changed the law, of course I was not a member of this assembly, but I followed this through the media, my opinion remained the same as that of increasing the gap between what is being achieved and what is then a criminal sanction when the offence is achieved. What do I mean by that? I have a feeling that in some cases, the driver’s punishment is too early, especially with certain speed limits, and because of the fact that this restriction, which results in the punishment or the offence, is so low, there is so much incentive that it is not actually taken into account. On the other hand, this entry level of criminal sanctions, which then occurs when this offence is committed, is low. My opinion is that we should check where and when to soften the level of the offence, when the offence is reached, but of course increase the amount of the penalty when the offence is reached. And I'm going to give an example that's already been in the media, and I know that the minister knows him well, an example of a speed limit at toll stations: 40 kilometers per hour. We probably all know that if we're going under, because 40 kilometers an hour means up to 40 or under 40 kilometers an hour at the time of crossing the toll station, speaking of frontal toll stations, we're going to have a lot of people looking at us in traffic. So this is one of these concrete cases where it would make sense to increase the limit, because this limit is not some recommended speed, 40, but is the maximum speed that we can achieve. And for this reason, I think that without problems at toll stations, the maximum speed of crossing 60 kilometres per hour could be substantially increased when the offence is committed; that is, when driving is no longer 60 but 65. So let the driver know when he actually exceeds what is a reasonable limit, and let him know that he will pay a very high penalty, which will cost him a lot. The second part is inherently linked to what the criminal points are, but goes further, the fact that the punishment does not affect everyone equally. Someone with low incomes feels a lot higher punishment or a medium sentence than someone with very high incomes. And we see this in some way when we're driving vehicles, which somehow represent higher income drivers who care much less about criminal restrictions, or we see it more as other drivers. Second sentence: alcohol. In Norway, where I was recently, in case they get a driver who is alcoholic, so who should not drive, they punish him and all the passengers with the applicable driving licence because they were so irresponsible that they let the driver drive. In Slovenia we have a lot of encouragement among young people, if, well, you will drive because you have the least to drink. And in this way, the passengers actually wash their responsibilities, but the driver carries everything; and, of course, puts everything at risk. I therefore suggest to the Minister that we also consider introducing a provision in Slovenia, under which the driver is also responsible for the alcoholization of the driver, i.e. the other participants in that car. Regarding trucks., I would like to point out: we who drive on highways have many times felt – and I myself have had a lot of bad experience with trucks due to carelessness and some feeling – that the truck is either way the king of the road and that he does not need to take care of safety and misdemeanors. And not the last – wheels [[...]] [[End warning sign]] I'd give Mr. Kres a funny answer. [[...]] I was alone without a helmet about four weeks ago on my bike with an auxiliary engine, and I had an accident here in Ljubljana. But what I'm trying to say is that it's not possible [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u57	Thank you. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 28th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 22. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - FIRST DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSAL OF A ROAD LEGISLATION. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of 13 Members and Members with the first-signed Bevk requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Dr. Wlačič, Minister of Transport, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u58	Thank you, Vice President. The Law on Public Roads has been amended several times in 13 years, but many provisions in the current Law on Public Roads have become obsolete and ineffective and should therefore be updated, modernised and adapted to the current situation. Following the entry into force of the Law on Public Roads, new system and sectoral laws or their novelties have been adopted, the individual solutions of which are incompatible with the solutions in the current law on public roads. The new proposal of the law removes and harmonises the new provisions of the Roads Act with applicable systemic and sectoral laws affecting the regulation of the area of public roads in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a new law is also in line with the applicable European rules on the improvement of road safety infrastructure. It will now be necessary to ensure that road safety checks are carried out at all stages of road planning until it is operational. Road safety review will also need to be ensured for existing roads. The main purpose of such a review is to identify shortcomings in road sections which, from the point of view of traffic safety, require the execution of maintenance works or other measures to prevent traffic accidents. Road infrastructure safety checks will be carried out by qualified road safety assessors in particular for this work. Allow me to briefly present the essential news of the Road Bill. The possibility of obtaining real service on a public road to build and connect economic infrastructure facilities is being expanded. The concept of cycling is defined and cycling links can also be carried out through other infrastructure, the owner of which is not a country or municipality. The establishment of any vegetation or installation of objects, devices and objects in the field of road, intersection or connection transparency shall be prohibited. The establishment and removal of traffic signalling and transport equipment is in the exclusive domain of the operator of regular road maintenance, and under certain conditions this right is also granted to operators of emergency transport, workers of the authorities responsible for the supervision of regulations, firefighters and police officers. The legal regulation on planning, design, construction and management is also widespread in the field of municipal and non-tegrated roads used for public road transport. The powers of the municipal registrar on municipal roads, state roads in the village and non-categorised roads used for public road transport shall be extended to the area of control of infringements relating to the safety of public roads, in relation to the emergency transport by way of overcrowding of permissible axle loads, the maximum permissible mass and the total mass of motor vehicles, and in relation to local traffic and the use of adjacent surfaces of vehicles which may damage the vehicle. In the face of continued growth in road transport, it is clear that road infrastructure action is essential and that the Ministry of Transport is faced with difficult tasks. The need for sustainable road infrastructure leads to a marked increase in the capacity of existing infrastructure. It is possible to achieve adequate mobility of people and goods by rational management and maintenance of road infrastructure, taking into account the integrity of the environment, social equality and economic efficiency. The objectives set out in the bill also make the optimal use and rational use of existing road infrastructure, resulting in a requirement for professional management with modern and well-thought approaches to its design, construction, supervision, management and maintenance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u59	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Branko Marinič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! We will not support the proposal of the Roads Act, which will replace the current law on public roads, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Why not? The objectives, principles and main solutions of the bill have not convinced us – except where national rules are aligned with EU rules. Directive 2008/96 speaks of improving the safety of road infrastructure, which must be transposed into the Slovenian legal order by 19. 12. 2010 One of the reasons for the new proposal of the Road Law is that the current Road Safety Act replaces four new rules. In the new Road Safety Act, road safety content – that is to say road maintenance, road use, traffic regulation, traffic signalling, equipment, equipment and traffic mitigation measures – is transferred from the road safety law, and so on – relating to public, municipal and non-categories roads used for public road transport, which have been regulated so far in the Road Safety Act. 143. Article 143 of the Proposal for a Law on Roads regulates the legal issues of public road infrastructure. The additional tasks are laid down in the proposal for a law to the municipalities which, in our view, do not have the financial resources provided. It is therefore necessary to point out here to all local communities that the proposed Roads Act also requires the amendment of four sub-laws, four regulations which will substantially change the way the financing is financed and other obligations which are also related to finance to the detriment of municipalities. If the applicant, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, had followed Directive 2008/96 on improving the safety of the road structure, this would have been reflected in the draft state budget 2011-2012, unfortunately not after the 2011-2012 draft state budget currently under consideration. In section 4, the area of transport, you have written in the coalition agreement – this is also significant – it is stated: "Safety is a key issue for transport participants. In addition to the human factor, there are often reasons for reducing safety in infrastructure, so we will give priority to addressing and reconstructing dangerous points and sections." End of the reference to the collective agreement or collective agreement signed by the coalition partners. So it is not just about solving and improving traffic safety if laws are rewritten, but dangerous points and dangerous sections will remain intact or equipped, as I have said today, with the most modern signaling warning of dangerous points or dangerous sections. These simply need to be removed, but this can only happen by physical intervention to reduce the curves to some tolerant plane or some other intervention in a construction sense that requires some concrete reconstruction of a particular work which has the effect of categorizing as a dangerous point or dangerous section. Therefore, there are sufficient reasons to depart from the essential content of the Proposal for a Law on Roads. We will therefore vote in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group against the conclusion that the draft law is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u61	Thank you. Mr. Lois Posedel, hello, you have the floor on behalf of the Zares Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A colleague and a colleague! In the Group of Members, we will really support the Roads Bill. The Roads Act is one of four laws in the field of transport law, which will partially replace the Road Safety Act and take the legal provisions of the existing Public Road Act. The Roads Act transposes road safety content that includes road maintenance, road use, traffic regulations, traffic signalling, equipment, traffic calming devices and measures, police and road safety inspection powers relating to public, municipal and non-categories roads used for public road transport. According to the 1997 Law on Public Roads, public roads are divided into state roads that are cared for by the State and into municipal roads that are cared for by the municipalities. Many provisions in force have now been obsolete and ineffective for 13 years and should therefore be updated and adapted to the current situation. One of the reasons for the adoption of the new Road Law is the European Directive of 2008 on improving the safety of road infrastructure, which must be transposed into the Slovenian legal order by 19 December of this year. And this proposal for a road law includes these basic requirements of a directive setting out minimum safety requirements in the field of road infrastructure. The reason for the adoption of the new law and our support is also the disagreement between the old law and some subsequent legislation. Content of the Proposal for a Law on Roads eliminates these inconsistencies. The bill has a new definition of the extent of real rights on public roads, which will be very welcome. We know examples of complications in the construction of individual road economic infrastructure facilities and connections to them. In view of these problems, the new law extends the scope of the possibility of building public roads on property rights to individuals' properties and therefore also provides for decommissioning procedures and other procedures to ensure the necessary land. The new law also lays down procedures for the marking and setting of road borders and also lays down maintenance works for public benefit on public roads and the rules and conditions for their implementation. One of the most important areas of the new law, which we consider very welcome in our parliamentary group, is the more cost-effective organisation and financing of the construction, management and maintenance of state and municipal roads. In the Parliamentary Group, we also really agree and support the arrangements for the inspection of all inspection services, the police and the municipal authorities. That is why, as we say, we will really support the proposal for a law in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u63	Thank you. Mr Janez Ribič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! In our view, the Roads Act could be referred to as the basic law for regulating new transport legislation. Without good roads there is no safe and orderly traffic, nor is it possible to have well-managed roads if the powers and tasks are not clearly shared between all the responsible and between the powers of the State and the municipalities. Even in this legislation, according to Members of the Slovenian People's Party, the lack of landscapes is again clearly apparent, as it would certainly be easier to address this problem at the level of the provinces. We therefore welcome the expansion of the possibility of obtaining services in relation to the definition of the scope of real rights on public roads and the mention of the provinces. Roads in our country are still considered as basic infrastructure and as a basic condition for the integration of personal transport, economic and other activities, they are essential for the development and accessibility and connectivity of rural and urban areas. Maintenance of roads, use of roads, traffic arrangements, traffic signalling, equipment, equipment and traffic calming measures, police and inspection authorities’ powers in the field of road safety are transferred from two existing laws, although we are interested in whether the municipalities have had the opportunity to give an opinion on the law and in particular on the provisions relating to the jurisdiction of the municipalities and their obligation to maintain a new road, other roads and roads. The bill on roads also extends the powers of municipal editors. Therefore, their competence is increased mainly with regard to municipal roads, and we are interested in an assessment of the increase in the costs of directors for the budgets of municipalities. In order to make the law more effective and to serve its purpose, in the Group of Members, we believe that until the second reading, some dilemmas that can be identified in reading the bill need to be resolved and some provisions complemented and found better and clearer solutions. One of the dilemmas concerns provisions in Article 9 concerning intervention access to vehicles. The purchase of land and the maintenance of these routes must be a major additional cost in the maintenance and financing of roads. If they are not to be used for public transport, this means an additional large amount of irrationality and reckless use of resources and surfaces. If such a solution is truly justified and necessary, the law should complement and lay down basic criteria and a way to establish such intervention pathways. Regulation, construction and financing of these routes shall not be left to subjective decisions or pressure from different lobbyes. In the process set out for the determination and labelling and modification of the borders of public roads, Members of the Slovenian People's Party would like to draw attention to decades of long-lasting injustice, which is due to many people who have not been regulated and still pay this limit, for example, a tax on the working surface. So we ask: What and when is the Ministry or Government going to do to regulate the dosages and repurchases of all lands already used as public roads? Thus, the situation with regard to certain state and local roads is not regulated and it is therefore necessary to provide for a procedure and to plan funds in the long term for the gradual resolution of this problem. Notwithstanding the categorisation, roads are good in this respect, and therefore the cost of dosing and entry into the land register should not be hung by municipalities alone in the case of so-called local roads, which cannot cover such high costs. Although I would like to simplify and short-term procedures for the construction of public roads as mayor, however, as a Member representing all citizens, I am detained, with reservations, to adopt provisions that property rights may be forfeited or restricted if there is no agreement on the acquisition of real rights. Such a measure is indeed an extreme measure because it affects the sensitive area of human rights and the constitutional right to property. In addition to these dilemmas, we propose to re-examine the proportionality of the prescribed penalties in the law. As an example, we find ourselves incomprehensiblely low and disproportionate to the comparable penalties imposed for exceeding the maximum permissible axle load of the total mass and for extraordinary transport. In this respect, there is also a need to increase the scope of inspection supervision and to increase penalties, since emergency transport operators are very aggressive, do not adhere to the rules, destroy vehicles and thus significantly undermine the maintenance and renewal of vehicles. The arrangement should be as strict as the control of the transport of dangerous substances. For safety reasons, it should also be more stringent to regulate road advertising, both in relation to distance from vehicles and in relation to the level of penalties. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we would also like clarification on a new decision, which, contrary to the design regulation of 4 metres, sets a new height of 4.2 metres as a border for extraordinary transport. Does this mean repairing objects? Who's going to fund this? Is it just a mistake? We do not agree with the regulation on the record and thus the categorisation of roads only twice a year. We believe that it should be regulated in the way it has been done so far. In fact, roads are supposed to be categorized prior to surrender. Therefore, provisions on the recording and categorisation of new construction, new sections and road reconstruction should be examined and updated accordingly. It is also necessary to re-examine the compatibility of the new definition of a settlement in the first paragraph of Article 34, which redefines the boundaries of at least 10 residential buildings. Does it not deserve, for example, safety along the road, a settlement with nine buildings or three buildings? Are we not equal? We also propose that the law lays down the basic conditions, criteria and guidelines for the appointment of an expert on road safety established by this law as a new institution and appointed by a minister. The safety expert will play an important role as he will be a member of a technical or commission roadside inspection. The findings from his specific reports will have to be taken into account by both the project documentation manufacturer and the operator, so he will have to assess and report independently of the lobby and the daily policy. In clarifying the dilemmas presented and taking into account the proposed additions and corrections to the provisions of the law, Members of the Slovenian People's Party support in principle the proposal for a Roads Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr Anton Urh will present the views of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a road law regulates some of the more important content of road protection, such as road maintenance, road use, traffic regulation and traffic signalling, equipment, traffic calming devices and measures, police and inspection powers in the field of road safety and so on. This is the content relating to state, municipal and non-tegregated roads used for public road transport which have so far been regulated by the Road Safety Act. The bill defines the scope of real rights on public roads by extending the possibility of obtaining public service on the public road for the construction of economic infrastructure and its connections. The proposal also allows for temporary use rights in accordance with the rules on the real estate of the State, the provinces and the municipalities governing the rental of immovable property to be obtained on a public road to carry out sports and other events. The bill also defines cycling links and the conditions for establishing a network of cycling links. The proposal also regulates the procedure for defining and marking the borders of public roads. At the same time, it provides that the basis for determining the road boundary is the spatial act of the State or municipality, the plot plan set out in the finding of public benefit or the external edge of the road council. The proposal also lays down provisions governing and investment maintenance works and maintenance works in the public interest on public roads and the rules and conditions for their execution and review, the obligations of public road owners and the establishment of public service services on these properties. Thus, landowners on a public road must allow all the conditions necessary for the smooth use of the public road, in particular access to road facilities for their maintenance, construction of roads and road body drainage facilities, the installation of traffic signals and transport equipment, the implementation of measures and the installation of temporary or permanent road protection and traffic devices on the road from snow beaches, replace, noise, blinding effects and other harmful effects if the construction and installation of those buildings and installations is not possible within the framework of the road world. In order to implement those measures, property rights on a public road may be temporarily or permanently burdened by public service. Let me also mention the solutions that regulate and enable more cost-effective arrangements for the organisation and financing of the construction, management and maintenance of state roads. The quality and scope of the supply of infrastructure services on state roads is no longer in line with today's needs, as existing and regional roads are in relatively poor condition, resulting from under-investment in their reconstruction and further development over the past decades. It is also a fact that only quality road infrastructure represents one of the fundamental conditions for coherent regional development, the creation of optimal conditions for the effective development of economic activities, and indirectly for housing in the appropriate areas of the country. However, in order to ensure coherent regional development, both economic and spatial, for the interconnection of regions, to improve the quality of transport services and to eliminate bottlenecks, to reduce transport costs, to improve transport safety and to reduce the negative impacts of transport on the environment, some further measures should also be provided, where the possibility of reorganising the implementation and financing of the construction, management and maintenance of the national road network development programme is certainly included. In the DeSUS Group, however, we are asking about the sense of introducing another special company for state roads, which, according to the applicant, is expected to carry out development and professional tasks in the public interest in the development, management and maintenance of state road infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia, excluding the motorway and fast road network under the tolling regime operated by Dars, d. d. The bill also regulates the area of municipal roads, which lays down basic rules for the administration, construction, maintenance and protection of municipal roads. A new chapter has been added, setting out the basic rules for the management, construction, maintenance and protection of municipal roads. The proposal is determined by the administrator of municipal roads. In the planning, design and construction of municipal roads, municipalities must comply with the Roads Act and the regulations issued on its basis. The seat belt of the municipal road, in which the use of space is limited, sets out the field of transparency on municipal roads, lays down the basic rules of construction, reconstruction, adaptation and termination of connections to uncategorised roads on municipal roads. On municipal roads traffic arrangements are established by municipalities. The proposal also regulates the closures of the municipal road due to works or events on the municipal road. The municipalities must keep records of municipal roads. The administrator of the municipal road must keep records of municipal roads and facilities in accordance with the rules on how to mark public roads and with records of public roads and facilities on them and to transmit them to the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads for free of charge. The proposal extends to municipal roads the rules of execution and review of maintenance works for public benefit, as well as provisions establishing a ban on the risk of the safe use of the road, and provisions defining the obligations of roadowners. The proposal also redefines inspection. Temporary measures by police officers and municipal officials shall be laid down in the light of identified roadside deficiencies. Criminal provisions have also been recast, while some requirements of the European Union are being implemented. The proposal brings quite good solutions, so we will also support it in the DeSUS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr Zmago Jelinčič The nobles will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. The fact is, we got a law that should also regulate the construction of roads, tunnels and everything else. The fact is that building roads in Slovenia is the most expensive in the world, you might say. Besides, construction's bad. If we look, every two years or three years the highways are closed again, something is being repaired, something is going on, they're new to the asphalt layer and so on. Therefore, it might make sense to look a little bit at Austria and Germany, where highways from concrete are now being built, not more from asphalt, since they have found that the concrete foundation lasts much longer, holds it, and implementation is cheaper, especially if the long term of use is taken into account without any specific road damage. We read a lot of times in the newspapers and see that the invitations are arranged for certain contractors, who then translate these things in one way or another by sub-contractors and thereby further harm the country. You don't know where, who, what you're doing, what you're doing, what you're doing, what you're doing, what you're doing, what you're doing, what you're doing, what you're doing, but over time, you're just finding that you're writing an annex to an annex, and then the price goes up to infinity, and there's nobody to blame, there's nobody to blame. If anyone asks a question, he will be tried for insulting him, one or the other. Let's see, like tunnels. The 80th Article and the subsequent Articles refer to the safety requirements in tunnels. However, now that a person is driving from Ljubljana to Celje, he sees that at the end of the tunnels only now they are building those crossings from one road to another, even though this could be done at the time of the construction of the highway itself. Of course, this is not done at the time because then another part cannot be charged when those fences fall again, the intermediate space asphalted and similar matters. At the same time, half the road closes and one wonders if it's still a highway if it's actually all closed down like that. We've got some highway company, Dars, who's going to be doing a great job, and now he's going to get some extra money, and now he's going to get a huge amount of funding, and I think something over 100 million euros to prepare some sort of electronic, space-based, sort of tollage, satellite, that's never going to come back to life. The fact is that Germany has resigned from this, with us, it seems that we have long since given up on this, but what kind of firm must receive payment for some political services or some political February must fill their pockets with the rest of the money that has not yet been stolen in Slovenia. I've already said that concrete highways are being built in Germany and Austria. And I think it would also make sense in Slovenia to do something like this, especially now that the scrotum is completely empty, or that we will take additional credits and use these loans to fill the pockets of some gentlemen who have been and will remain in certain positions. In this regard, it is also questionable whether a new national NCUP, as it says here, needs to be re-established, namely the National Transport Management Centre. I think we already have company, Dars, who's doing it, and we should do it. Why it is now necessary to establish another additional institution, which will certainly employ an additional 30 or 40 people, who will all want to have good cars, as on Dars, who will want to have good wages, as at this institution, and who will be responsible I don't know who and I don't know why. After all, I miss in this law the responsibility of those who can spend the most. It is written everywhere how much punishment will be paid by an individual who is acting independently or responsible or who does not know who, but nowhere does it say what we will do with Darsa, who will launch, by his own words, tens of millions of euros or hundreds of millions of euros. Looks like we're not gonna do anything, like we've done nothing now. Will we ever call on a construction worker who has done a bad thing? I don't know. I feel like I never did. Article 22 of the Act also discusses level crossings across railways. All well and well, Europe has been demanding this for some time now, and level crossings should have made a whole line, but we do not do them, and we certainly will not do them yet, because there is no money for it. In addition, level crossings are usually moved from the main roads to the periphery, and one way or another, the question is whether or not anyone cares. On the other hand, it would make sense if we were talking about this heavy traffic, why not once a legal provision is made to put most trucks on the railway. Trucks are destroying highways, and I don't think that the money they leave on the highway is enough to get these things fixed and fixed. At the same time, we are looking at parking lots along Slovenian highways that are always full of these trucks. If I return to Germany and Austria again, that's where these parking lots are paid. If a truck stays in a certain parking lot, it has to pay for it. Parking spaces are arranged for this, shower rooms and similar things are arranged, we have not yet taken it, because something needs to be fixed, something needs to be fixed, again we need to break with some people, when it is easier to pick up our own people, the Slovenes, from our pockets what is left for us. When article 25 of the Act states on the exploitation of mineral raw materials by public road, I recall the case of Pšičin in Ormož. It's, by the way, a shodder pit that actually has raw materials on the road, where the road route will go, but it's forbidden to dig a shower there, I don't know why. It must be driven from about 45 kilometers [45 km] away, likely because someone will make a wonderful profit by earning it to carriers who will drive 45 miles [45 km] here and back again, and to those who are there, but cannot dig it up. That's great! I have even filed a criminal complaint for this, in my opinion, evident corruption and corruption, and it shows nothing, even on Kosovo I have put this document on the Commission, and Mr Kos has not dealt with it, it is probably not worth it, he has others, he has other preferences, and now we will see what this new commission will do. In short, things are arranged to some extent, but not enough. They're imperfect, and they're incomplete. It is also interesting that we have in section 9, which deals with the management, construction, maintenance and protection of municipal roads, in Article 111 of the decommissioning of vehicles from traffic. I would like to know whether this exclusion of a vehicle from traffic applies only and only to municipal roads or applies to all roads. For it is not explained here which road and which road it is. So that the diction "policeman or municipal editor prohibits further driving..." — I do not know, a person would think that, at least in such cases, where certain sanctions are referred to for certain infringements, it is decided whether this is true only for municipal roads or for all, since otherwise this Article 111 does not fall under this Chapter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr Miran Jerič will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u70	The existing road safety law, although the area of road infrastructure and its safety, is regulated in 10 articles. These provisions shall be transposed into the new Roads Act, which replaces the applicable Public Roads Act, but to a large extent preserves its scope of regulation. As the lawmakers say, a number of provisions have been amended, which have in practice proved inadequate and unadapted to the new situation and have also been brought into line with other legislation adopted following the entry into force of the current law or after the entry into force of its four novelties, particularly in the area of the regulation of premises, the partitioning and the construction of buildings. Among the objectives of the proposed law in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia are two main objectives. The first objective is to increase road safety in the part where it depends on road infrastructure. The other objectives are to make optimal use of existing road infrastructure with its simultaneous safe use. In our opinion, they will also be helped to achieve some of the other goals in the draft law, which is particularly highlighted in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Thus, the legal regime extends to municipal and private roads. The manager of municipal roads, of course, remains the municipality, which also provides for traffic arrangements on municipal roads. The law redefines inspection and extends it to municipal and private roads. In addition, the scope of inspections, the manner in which the procedures are managed and the method of enforcement and inspection measures are determined more precisely. Furthermore, it is clear from the legal text that the road manager is responsible for the safety and transport of public roads and that the road operator is responsible for the condition of roads alone. At the same time, it seems worth mentioning in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia that the legal text clearly sets out the obligation to inform users of changes in traffic regulations. Public road operators and owners of non-categorised roads used for public road transport are obliged to inform both the competent authorities of any change in traffic arrangements and the national traffic management centre, which informs road users or the public. The envisaged organisational and substantive upgrade of the existing Darsa Transport and Information Centre to the aforementioned national transport management centre, in which other road managers can participate, as we welcome, should be commended. In the LDS, we expect the new national centre to make up for the delays and offer modern technological solutions to users of Slovenian roads as soon as possible to inform about the state of our roads. The law also amends the current conditions for information and advertising on state roads, which will, hopefully at least, help to eliminate the current, both visual and other anarchy on many Slovenian roads. In particular, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we would like to draw attention to the establishment of rules for establishing the management and maintenance of state cycling links. We hope that these provisions will facilitate investments in cycling links, which in recent years have almost completely died down mainly due to the lack of funds. We cannot imagine the development of sustainable road transport in Slovenia without a significant increase in cycling links in the Liberal Democracy. Of course, the legal text also brings other innovations relating to road regulation and safety, such as the rules on the regulation of public roads connections, the amendment of the obligations of property owners along state roads, the expansion of service opportunities and so on. Finally, let me mention the fact that the legal text also represents the implementation of the Directive on the improvement of road infrastructure safety, according to which road safety checks are ensured at all stages of road planning until the start of operation. Above all, we point out the provisions under which municipal authorities are given powers to control axle loads, common masses and other parameters of motor vehicles, which, in our opinion, will significantly help to maintain municipal roads where such control has not been carried out so far. The legal text in force modernises and adapts it to current real and legal conditions, so we are convinced that it improves the legal order of the area of construction, management and maintenance or protection and safety on all roads intended for road transport. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the proposal for a road law after the first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u72	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. In our parliamentary group, we will support the Roads Act, because we are aware that quality road infrastructure is one of the fundamental conditions for coherent regional development and that only providing optimal opportunities for the development of the economy along the highways is, of course, insufficient, must be taken care of the other state road network and, of course, the network managed by the municipalities. However, in order to implement this measure and to achieve this objective, it is, of course, necessary to adopt a national programme on the development of the State road network and to adapt the possibility of reorganising the implementation and financing of construction and the management and maintenance of roads. On the contrary, I think we all agree that there is not enough resources for efficient maintenance and construction. For this reason, we can often talk about the fact that roads are significantly less safe and suitable because we do not provide sufficient effective measures and, in particular, means for better maintenance. Therefore, the creation of a specific economic company for the development and professional tasks, the management and maintenance of state road infrastructure is certainly one of the biggest challenges facing us, as we are aware that the Directorate for State Roads, which today somehow manages 800 budgetary projects worth €130 million, is of course an extremely large resource, and, on the other hand, such a form of organisation is limited because it is only necessary to respect all the legislation relating to the execution of public contracts and, of course, to respect the possibilities of staff in this directive, as the rules apply to the whole of the Government as well. And many times this also encourages that this service is less effective than it could have been. The fact that this law is also good for the municipalities speaks in that part of providing public service on the public road for the construction of economic infrastructure facilities is a service for the benefit of local communities for compulsory economic public service. Such a service will be unpaid under this law, and of course this also represents a very significant contribution to reducing the costs of local communities in the construction of economic public infrastructure. We are also aware that road construction is an extremely important element in relation to time. As a result of the construction of the motorway, property rights may be acquired or restricted under this law if there is no contractual acquisition of real rights. Even if a spatial act within a protected lane does not provide that it may interfere with the construction of certain buildings, it is nevertheless possible to discharge within this corridor without the adoption of a spatial act, and of course such a decision may be taken by the Government or the municipality. In short, we also want to significantly speed up the procedures for obtaining the right to construction on all public roads, and this is also the key element that has kept us going in the past period, so that things can really be handled slowly or slower than they would have wanted. Investment maintenance works can also benefit from public roads, i.e. within an area defined as road safety belts, reconstructions can be carried out substantially faster without specific procedures. At the same time, it is extremely important to take over such maintenance works and, finally, if deficiencies are detected in these maintenance works, to issue an order by which the Minister of State Roads, as well as the Mayor of Local Roads, decides to remedy the deficiencies or when this is resolved, including the unlimited use of the road. So far, we have all often faced the fact that we have been satisfied or, above all, dissatisfied with the work done and how to deal with these shortcomings. This law is also significantly clearer in this part, which means that the responsibility of the operators, the supervision and all those who manage the investment will be significantly greater than it was before the adoption of this law. However, in this part of the law dealing with the fields of transparency is extremely important for general security and, in particular, for the development of transport, especially in settlements, because everything happens too often to us that someone in a cross or in some imprudent part wants to build a particular building, fence or, more recently, also to establish a vegetation that actually reduces transparency and thus increases the possibility of accidents, which also undermines road safety. The regulation of all these crossings, level crossings with the railway line as well as with the roads themselves, transparency on these crossings is crucial to making security really significantly better than it was and is currently before the adoption of this law. All of this will also have to be done properly in land operations, so that the setting of public road borders is one of the key tasks where we can actually identify that the fields of transparency with the owner's payment service system are also agreed in such a way that for all that will have to be affected by private property, this is done in such a way that it is properly assessed and that the corresponding compensation then belongs to it. In short, certain additional obligations, but absolutely necessary, both for road operators and for landowners along public roads, but without the cooperation of both sides, it is not possible to ensure efficient traffic on roads and, above all, safety. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that this law will truly improve this cooperation and, above all, give way to speeding up construction, traffic control and road maintenance. That is why we will continue to support this law on roads in the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u73	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Dr. Luka Yuri, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u74	Thank you very much. I'd like to welcome the new law. I will ask a few questions as well as one answer to the dilemmas that have been raised so far. One of the possible for some time not too much or at least most people not too noticeable phenomena occurring along the roads is advertising activity that reaches an ever-increasing dimension. It is noted that, more than trying to adapt the standards to the needs of reality and to limit reality to what are security needs, the advertising activity avoids all these constraints. The law provides a better definition of how individual advertising panels can be put in place. However, it seems to me that, above all, on motorways where we have a longer field of vision or a wider field of vision, we should take a more stringent approach in the event of advertising. The so-called maxi jumbo posters, 15 x 6 meters, are created as mushrooms, for example, along the karst hills and valleys or if we are driving in Styria, both from a safety point of view and from an environmental point of view – but I know that environmental protection is not a department of the Ministry of Transport, but here we are approaching the interdisciplinary – it is necessary to place some limit on what actually leads to one borderless pollution of the Slovenian roadside with excessive advertising. Here I would like to ask the Minister – and I hope – of his response – about the question of the nightlighting of road signs and road signs. This lighting has become almost disturbing in recent years, even at the entrance to settlements, where we have actually witnessed some inflation of various illuminated inscriptions, where it is not even clear which inscription is part of the road infrastructure and which inscription is part of the advertising campaign, confuses drivers, creates conditions for lower safety and, of course, also causes additional light pollution. Here I propose that the Ministry of Roads also look at the existing regulations on light pollution, which it prepares and regulates and already has the Ministry of Environment and Space, and adjusts the provisions of the Roads Act concerning advertising to restrictions on light pollution. For example, in my opinion, we now have advertising boards that are inadvertently arranged. I will start with those who are most present on our roads, and these are, of course, tables of petrol pumps that, in my opinion, unjustifiably illuminate a particular area, run, tire the driver and, of course, additional light pollution. Lighting could be arranged differently, as is the case for road tables, i.e. with reflectors that radiate downwards and with a significantly lower level of luxury, i.e. luminosity. If we move forward with the road signs, the minister – this is not strictly your responsibility, but, however, because you are the first man in the ministry – whether we must have in every small settlement when we reach one intersection or a larger intersection, such portals to pass the plane. At the time of the economic crisis, we also have portals, where only the foot of this portal, one of two, about that wide, is about 15 meters high, the board is such that you see it 15 kilometers away. What for? Why, if there's a speed limit of 50 kilometers per hour? I see this in Cyprus, where these portals have fallen apart, and not only are they useless, not only are they ugly, but they also end up saying what a normal image of a city is. Sometimes we could ride with normal boards, where the driver who wanted to see the board saw her, someone who came in 250 an hour didn't see her, but it's normal to drive 250 an hour, because that's what the radars are for, so there are speed limits, etc., and there must be police controls, which we talked about in the previous law. We don't need these huge aircraft carriers on our roads. I see, after your silent reactions, we somehow agree on that. I'm asking you to arrange to see if these needs are real. We know that officials will tell you, of course, that this is necessary under some legislation, which means that legislation or regulations should be amended. It's about spending public money on the actual punishment of our country and it's after all about some unnecessary investment. In the case of trucks, always a recurring initiative Let's put trucks on the railways!, I support this initiative and I think we all agree with it. However, we are aware — and also in the Ministry’s defence — that it is not possible to place trucks on the railways overnight in order to need a certain infrastructure, which unfortunately we do not yet have. As far as I know, this infrastructure will take us 10-15 years to put at least a minimum on the railways. I really want this to happen to me. I would like to repeat once again the interesting proposal made by my colleague Jelinčič in front of me, and this is to take a different approach – if possible in further development when we reach electronic tolls – to the parking spaces for trucks, to stay overnight at the resting places with a certain payment. What does that mean? Does this mean that we will then find alternative solutions for trucks? Of course, that wouldn't be good. Or it means that we will better regulate this area, that is the thing that you better know, Minister, I think as a layman the initiative makes sense. And finally, if we've talked about road safety before and now we're talking about public roads, another question that you've probably heard and probably heard once a month, so it won't bother you if you hear it from me again. And that's what you figured out, how do you plan to approach, when, maybe when we start electronic tolling, by demolishing toll stations? So I'll say, of course, there are some priorities and priorities are probably the leading toll stations, the ones we have on the Stairway highway that are open-ended, or those that we have on the Vijež on the coastal highway or on the new. These toll stations would actually make sense to face the earth as quickly as possible because they are dangerous. However, I do not object to maintaining some area, some wider area, because we know that toll stations are now also used for toll control. But when the wine was introduced, the question of how to carry out toll control was not the best answer, and the fact is that today there is no suitable infrastructure on Slovenian highways to control actual use or non-use of vineyards. It is now being used for this toll station, but however, these stations could be levelled to the ground and set up some mobile infrastructure that is used if necessary or not. And here I believe that the Minister will be able to explain to us again about the toll stations, perhaps with new facts, and when can we expect at least these toll stations to become a thing of the past? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr. Tiny, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u76	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister! The main reason for the bill is the transfer of content relating to road safety. One of the reasons for the proposal is the adoption of a directive of the European Parliament which improves road safety, as the proposal introduces itself into Slovenia's legal order. In particular, in addition to the principles and objectives mentioned above, it is important to raise safety standards related to road infrastructure. When it comes to the principles of liability of road managers in charge of the safety and flow of public roads, I must explain that their work is very responsible, but in most cases they cause the ill will and intolerance of drivers who are users of the motorway. They have to pay the road fair and move in the columns along the snail. This should be arranged differently in order for the flow to be reduced, but not to wait in the columns for an hour or more. I sometimes drive to Maribor myself for three hours. The applicant also touched on the management, organisation and financing of construction and maintenance of state roads. In doing so, it notes that quality and scope no longer meet the needs, as regional roads are in very poor condition, especially in terms of lack of money and underinvestment in renovations over the past years, this is not yesterday, but it is taking time. The establishment of new companies for state roads is not likely to solve problems, but only increases the apparatus, which is earlier than the economic political nature. The law lays down the basic rules for the management of the construction, maintenance and protection of municipal roads, as well as the administrator of municipal roads, where the municipality will also provide for traffic arrangements. The law extends the rules on the exercise of controls and maintenance to public benefit, which determines in particular the safe use of roads to which owners who have property on roads are also bound. The bill is certainly well - intentioned and has quite a few acceptable chapters to support. Speaking of which, I'd like to warn the minister about the markings. In particular, the exit from the highway to Miklavž in the Drava Field is not marked anywhere. Above the intersection, where it's marked, the one who's on the highway is already missing. So it would point to that board to additionally write Miklavž on the Drava field – we turn right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr Györek has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mrs. Brunscoll. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Barovich. [[He's not here.]] Yeah, there's less of you. Mr. Marinic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. Have a nice hello to you all again! I believe that the debate so far has clearly and unequivocally established that there is no expectation of greater security without good road infrastructure. I think that this is a fundamental conclusion and that the law may not yet be known how good and made with the help of top experts, if it is not a real reflection of road users, of course we cannot be satisfied. But there is something else I would like to draw attention to in the proposal for a road law. In the course of the discussion of the previous law, I have already highlighted one of the articles governing traffic across the road across the level of railway crossings. I would like to draw attention to Article 22, which I have also made clear today in the previous substance of the law, namely Article 22 speaks of level crossings across the railway line. Now there's a marriage ground, but I think we should have something that's crucial. I don't know if I remember very well that the Minister has not talked about the number of these level crossings of the road, which are secured, but should be protected, to update another 570, 577, something like that. In this respect, of course, I see one progress now, if the article provides for the crossing of state roads and railways, 'they must be limited to the most urgent extent by focusing two or more state roads on a common crossing with the railway line. The way in which state roads and railways are crossed and the costs of their construction, reconstruction or maintenance burdening the road or railway are allocated shall be regulated in accordance with the rules on railway safety". I expect, or that the two railway laws are already in the National Assembly, that these articles or these contents are consistent so that they will not be written there. And in summary, this article now makes it clear to the executives of the content of this law that they will have to come up with specific numbers. And if it has a competent ministry with the number of inadequately secured road-rail crossings with regard to the time in which we are, then I am sure it also has an analysis of how many of these cases can we taxably find in the content of Article 22. And it would probably apply here in this article to add, and therefore the position of the Group is also intended not to conclude that the content of the bill is suitable for further discussion and we will vote against precisely these shortcomings, as the proposaler could already indicate a specific number in this article. Since there is now too much vacant space left here that the law enforcement agencies can overlook or find out, there is no money, that is the most common reason, and of course then things remain the way they are, and that would be a great damage. That is why we expect to add something concrete in this article 22 in further procedures for the consideration of the proposed road law. In my presentation of the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, I said that the draft Law on Roads also has, I think, four or even more sub-legislative acts. The drafts of these proposals of the sub-legislative acts are also not negligible and need to be deepened in their content. For if we compare the content of a sub-legislative act laid down in some article of the Road Bill, then it must be verified and harmonised. Well, one of the interesting tasks that the content of a sub-legislative act called the Regulation on the method of checking the safety of road infrastructure and the competence of traffic safety assessors is presented in Article 4. As we have also discussed today the proposed content of the Road Traffic Rules Act, we have found that it would be valid, at least I have suggested that it would be appropriate to set up a commission to carry out a final report on the investigation of such a serious traffic accident and then to serve to eliminate those critical or dangerous points, this Article 4 is, I will say, quite good, namely, that the contracting authority of the Traffic Safety Report is the Public Agency for Transport Safety. Thus, after every fatal accident, the Public Agency for Transport Safety is now the one to order such a report. I hope and wish that such reports would be serious, that this provision would indeed apply. I even think it would be wiser to make such a provision, as in Article 4 of the sub-law, into the basic article of the law, because we know how the changes in the content of the sub-laws, where different interests and diversified, are. However, if this is in the basic concept or proposal of the content of the road law in a specific article, this is provided for by law. I do not know why the applicant did not transpose such a provision into the basic proposal for a road law. In the SDS Group, we have warned that such things should be in the individual content of certain articles, proposals for transport laws that we are dealing with. I hope and wish that the Minister and his co-workers have noted this in order to consider whether the content of this sub-legislative act contained in this regulation in Article 4 might not have been translated into a more relevant article of the basic concept of the transport law we are considering these days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Would you like a word, Mr. Janko Weber? Janko Weber has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. I think that in Slovenia we can find that the construction of the motorway took place on such a large scale mainly because a special company has been set up to conduct all the procedures necessary for the construction to begin. In Slovenia we are just ahead of the new challenge, it is the construction of development axes that connect those areas that lie outside the highway cross to the highway network itself. And if we look at the values that will have to be ensured for these development axes to be built, of course it is the 3rd development axis, 3rd and 4th development axis, we need to think intensively about defining new ways of financing and also maintaining other state roads, not just highways. Therefore, the possibility afforded by this law to set up a special economic society, either for a single development axis or for all development axes, and finally for the maintenance and management of the remaining state roads, is an option that should be examined very carefully in Slovenia in a very short time. For the fact is that from the budget itself the resources for building development axes will not be sufficient and that the budget is only one of the resources that we have at our disposal, but it does not provide sufficient resources. Therefore, thinking that individual sections can also be built by granting concessions or at least with the possibility of hiring additional funds to accelerate these investments is something that is crucial if this road law actually comes to life in practice. In fact, the dynamics of upgrading and building roads, as currently budgeted, are all too modest in view of the needs that are actually prevailing in Slovenia right now. In particular, if we want to effectively address the consequences of the economic and financial crisis in the areas most affected by this crisis, all eyes and all forces are resisting in this direction in order to ensure adequate road infrastructure first and then you can obtain economic companies or someone who would be interested in investing their capital in this area and in stimulating economic growth and providing new jobs. So I can say that I will also try to invest a lot more energy in the implementation of this road law just to define the way to finance it, and if this is a specific economic company, it will be necessary to prepare appropriate legal bases for this, in order to do so in practice. And I think that in the field of roads, this is actually the biggest challenge, and I am sure that we will still be able to achieve it in this mandate and with this minister and this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Would you like a word, Mr. Minister of Transport? Dr. Patrick Vlačič, Minister of Transport, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Vice President. As far as advertising is concerned. The law regulates only advertising along state roads, while advertising along municipal roads is within the jurisdiction of the municipalities. In addition, the road operator may lay down conditions for the establishment of information and advertising facilities only in the safety zone, while outside this band we do not have jurisdiction, but it is a matter of controlling the environmental inspection services. As far as light pollution is concerned, the provisions of the applicable legal regulation, i.e. regulations in this field, are respected in respect of lighting facilities or installations which are illuminated. The size of traffic signs as well as portals is determined by the Regulation on Road Traffic Signalling and Transport Equipment. That Regulation certainly needs to be ventilated, so I agree. With regard to the parking of goods vehicles at rest, it is permitted, under the proposal of the law, to park the cargo vehicle for the longest period of the prescribed rest of the driver or during the period of the prohibition of traffic. The driver must mark the time and date of the parking start. Parking of a cargo vehicle without control or only of a trailer is prohibited. In fact, the practice shows that car carriers use a parking space for trucks and therefore lack the relevant parking areas to park other vehicles. This is a service area which is intended only for the short stop of drivers. As regards the demolition of toll stations, these will collapse in parallel with the introduction of an electronic toll system, and this will be an obligation, in principle, to the one that will join this system. This will be the task of the one who will receive an electronic toll concession. The fact is that demolition is difficult to reconstruct the department's work, that it is not just the removal of these houses. It is therefore a complete regulation of the vehicle profile, so it is also an extremely difficult financial operation and it is reasonable to do so when the tolling is arranged. With regard to the status of the transformation of our DRSC. As regards the quality and scope of infrastructure services on the main and regional state roads, the fact that today's regulation may not necessarily correspond to what we need. Indeed, state roads are in relatively poor condition, resulting from underinvestment in the past in their reconstruction and development. The fact is that quality road infrastructure is also one of the key conditions for the cohesion development of the Republic of Slovenia, for coherent regional development, for creating conditions for the effective development of economic activities, and also for not moving many people to large centres and escaping from smaller municipalities due to reduced employment opportunities due to poor infrastructure connectivity. Ensuring regional development, both economic and spatial for the interconnection of regions, improving the quality of transport services, removing bottlenecks, reducing transport costs, improving transport safety, reducing the negative impacts on the environment, all of which are, of course, my wishes, and therefore some further measures need to be provided. One of these is certainly the preparation of a national road network development programme that the country has never had before. Furthermore, I also refer to the possible reorganisation of the DRSC, which in the law gives it the opportunity to work as a public road company established to carry out development and professional tasks in the public interest in the development, management and maintenance of state road infrastructure. So it's an option that the law allows; more about it later when we re-think things even more. The fact is that sometimes it is difficult within the Ministry, within such an organisation as we know now, to follow all the requirements, to meet all the needs and, above all, what is the wish of all of us, to be effective in restoring and maintaining, updating and managing the state road infrastructure. Perhaps a different organization will also be the right answer to this question. As far as safety requirements for tunnels are concerned, some are even stricter than European legislation. Some of our tunnels are among the best in Europe. However, we also have some who are older and need certain measures. The National Traffic Management Centre is about reshaping the current Transport Information Centre, Dars, and organising it at the national level. Various road managers will be able to join this centre. It is the wish that, or the right thing to do, such a centre should be run by the state, run by the Ministry, and also provide a good service for citizens. Today, if you call their number, they will give you the best possible information on how to avoid congestion, which alternative ways to use. But if you're already in a jam, they'll give you pretty much the exact amount of information you're going to be costing. As far as intermodal transport is concerned, it is not a matter of this legislation. It's a matter of transport policy. Of course I want it. Let me just say that when we talk about moving goods from roads to railways, there are so many railway infrastructures in Slovenia that they are so full of trucks that we do not bring up one train alone anymore. In particular, let's say we don't get any more trains between Luka Koper and the inside of the Koper-Frill track. And with a truly favourable so-called split model, it is said that the division of how much the sector transports – 60% of the railway, 40% of the road, which is exceptional – will be difficult to maintain if we do not continue to invest in rail infrastructure. We're restoring the existing track, we're going to build a new one, but it's already a matter of some other debate. The removal of a vehicle from transport is a measure to be carried out by both police and municipal officials, with municipal officials exercising their powers both on municipal roads, state roads in the village and on non-tegrated roads used for public road transport. This provision is not in the section of municipal roads, but in the form of powers, so it applies to all public roads. The Law on Public Roads has been under consideration for almost half a year and its content has been coordinated with the public in a broad debate. As far as intervention access is concerned, our assessment is that they will not require additional financial resources, as they will be subject to existing access to public roads or will be provided in an agreement with land owners in the form of services. But if there are any financial implications here, we estimate that they will be small. Property relations relating to public roads are already under way, but the fact that all these things cannot be settled quickly and at once. The fines have increased mainly in areas directly linked to the protection of road infrastructure, as it is essential that the prescribed fine prevents the potential offender from serving the offence. Our assessment is that the fines are proportionate and coordinated according to their interdependence. As far as the border of the village is concerned. The municipalities shall maintain traffic surfaces, facilities and installations on the side or over the road of the state road which are in function of the surface of the settlement. It is transport surfaces and transport equipment, which, according to its functionality, is intended primarily for the local population and to increase their safety. For this reason, we estimate that maintenance of these transport surfaces and transport equipment is within the jurisdiction of the municipalities. Following the current law on public roads, municipalities are obliged to maintain all traffic signals in the village, and only traffic lights and other traffic signals with external or internal lighting are required under the proposed law. This is a difference because, according to the news, there is no longer the obligation of the municipality to maintain the marks on the carriageway and the standard signs, what we understand as a traffic sign. The draft law introduces into the Slovenian legal order Directive 2008/96 laying down the minimum safety requirements of road infrastructure for state roads which form part of the trans-European road network, namely motorways, fast roads operated by Dars, with the exception of tunnels on these roads. Road safety checks should be ensured at all stages of planning, until entry into service, and road safety checks should also be provided for existing roads. More specifically, it is prescribed to produce an assessment of the impact of each variant on transport safety, which constitutes an important argument for the final decision in choosing the most appropriate option. By reviewing the project documentation and by checking the safety of project solutions at all stages of design, continuous consideration of road safety is ensured. The main purpose of such a review is to identify shortcomings in road sections which, from the point of view of traffic safety, require the execution of maintenance works or other measures to prevent traffic accidents. Road infrastructure safety checks will be managed by qualified road safety assessors in particular for this work. Therefore, as regards the professional basis for the national programme for state roads, the professional basis is ready. Soon, as soon as possible, we will also go to the Government with a national programme, then we will also come before the National Assembly, for the first time in history, with a national programme for state roads that we have not yet had.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u83	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I see interest. I ask that those who wish to do so sign up for the debate. Dr. Luke Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u84	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief. During the debate, this allows modern technology to alert me to another issue which I would like to highlight very briefly. In recent years, due to their relative, essential advantages over classical circles, we have performed massively in Slovenia with the construction of circulars. I personally support that, too. I think traffic is more liquid and, above all, safer. It is also true that the majority of the people who use our roads today obtained their driving license at a time when these circles were virtually nowhere to be found. And most of these people don't know how to use circles as they should or don't know the rules within these circles. And so, for example, what's most common is that the inner belt comes directly out of the circle and puts other drivers in danger. It is therefore an initiative for the Ministry to consider the possibility of increasing the level of promotion and informing people of what is the right behaviour in the circulars and how to safely fit into the circle and exit safely. Very briefly, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Would you like a minister, Mr. Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u86	When I was doing the car exam, there were practically no laps. Here. This is one of the things we have already dealt with in the past, and we will do some other promotional action, some awareness of the citizens in this area, to learn how to drive in circles. The circle will certainly increase, because they are safer, more flowful and certainly a comment that shows respect for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u87	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 28th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. PERIOD OF THE DAY – THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE SEA LEGISLATION, AFTER A COMPLETE PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Minister Patrick Vlačič. Secretary of State, Dr. Igor Jakomin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The main reason for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code is the transfer of the third Erik III maritime safety package, which was adopted within the European Union in 2009. The European directives contained in this package address areas such as maritime inspection, maritime traffic control, classification services, investigation of maritime accidents, compliance of ships with the requirements of the flag State and insurance of shipowners for maritime claims. The proposal for this law transposes into the Slovenian legal order the high standards of maritime safety presented by the third maritime package. By adopting this proposal, we will achieve greater safety of navigation and, as a result, greater safety of human life at sea and the protection of the marine environment. Some of the directives in this package need to be implemented by the end of November, and the proposed amendments to the Maritime Code need to be adopted urgently. In addition to these amendments, the amendment of the Maritime Code also includes the provision of a smooth obligation for vessels and maritime pilotage to be designated as a selective public service in the Kore cargo port. Furthermore, the provision of hydrographic activities in order to ensure the safety of navigation in a practical manner, the opening of the possibility of entering merchant ships into the Slovenian ship register while ensuring a high standard of ship safety under the Slovenian flag, the opening of special transaction accounts to maritime agents, greater legal certainty for creditors with the possibility of selling ships before obtaining the enforcement address and the alignment of fines with the Offences Act. Members and Members of Parliament, I therefore propose that you vote in favour of the proposed law, which is important for the transposition of the acquis of the European Union, at the same time indirectly represents a major contribution to greater maritime safety, which I believe is also in our common interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Transport as a working mother, so I would like to give the floor to the President, Mr Janko Webr, for further presentation of the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. At its 12th meeting, held on 5 October 2010, the Transport Committee discussed the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Maritime Code and, in its introductory addendum, presented a further presentation of the draft law, stressing that the proposed law introduces less difficult amendments and additions to the Maritime Code, which lays down the legal basis for the transposition of the rules of the European Union, the so-called third Erik III maritime package. The solutions proposed are also in line with the principles of the European Union, namely the safety of navigation, the protection of human life at sea and the prevention of pollution of the sea. These were the main points highlighted by the applicant in the presentation. The Legislative and Legal Service has also examined the law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and notes that, while many of the proposed provisions are somewhat under-explanatory, in particular those with which the provisions of certain new or amended Directives are transposed into our legal order. Therefore, the Legislative and Legal Service stated that most of the comments were of a nomotechnical nature, but most of the comments were subsequently regulated in the amendments. In the context of the second reading of the draft law, the Committee also adopted a debate and a vote on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled and all amendments tabled within the time limit. After discussion on the individual articles of the draft law and after discussion and vote on the amendments in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the draft law together. So today you have an updated proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Maritime Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Janez Ribič has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the short-term process of adopting and supplementing and amending the Maritime Code, given the necessity of transposing directives of the European Union, the so-called third maritime package, which emerged from the major tankers' accidents. In particular, it is important to amend and establish measures to protect our sea, safety of navigation, to prevent pollution in the port of copier and to regulate greater legal certainty for creditors with the possibility of selling the ship before obtaining the operative address. In doing so, we expect that the appropriate additions adopted will be to the law already approved on the home committee, which improves the text and eliminates irregularities and non-compliances and wrongly spelled provisions in the draft proposal, as also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service. Another important reason is the concession contract between the State and Luka Koper, which requires the State, as the port manager, to ensure the implementation of maritime aviation and tow. Since services of public interest are in the interest of the safety of navigation and pollution prevention in the port of Kore, it is proposed that those services be carried out as an economic service of choice, i.e. only for Luka Koper. We also want to know if this is the only possible and best solution or if there is any other way to regulate it. In the case of compulsory towing and maritime pilotage, as optional economic public services, a sub-legislative act on the implementation of this service is issued and it is therefore good that, in addition to the regulation on maritime traffic control, the law is accompanied by a draft act implementing the optional economic service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by the mag. Your Clavor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u94	Mr Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The main reason for the amendments and additions to the Maritime Code lies in the transfer of the acquis of the European Union to the Slovenian legal order. This is about the transposition of certain acts from the so-called third maritime package adopted last year. While the essential changes and additions to the Code include the provision of a smooth compulsory towing of vessels and maritime pilotage, the provision of hydrographic activities for the safety of navigation, the opening of the possibility for the entry of Slovenian merchant ships currently in foreign registers, the Slovenian Ship Register and greater legal certainty for creditors with the possibility of selling the ship before obtaining the enforcement address. Mandatory towing and maritime pilotage are now being carried out free on the market in the Kore cargo port. However, since these activities are essential for the performance of port activities for safety reasons, they cannot be left to market mechanisms alone. The implementation of maritime aviation and compulsory towing shall be defined as an optional economic service by means of a proposal for a new Code. The bill also proposes to define how hydrographic activities can be provided. The Geodetic Institute of Slovenia performs certain tasks as a public service, thereby ensuring the smooth and professional collection and management of hydrographic data required for the production of maritime maps. Source hydrographic data are also important for the provision of the country's defence, and therefore, except for the purpose of drawing up maritime maps, they must not be made available to the public. The amendment of the Code will allow for the entry of merchant ships, regardless of ownership, but with restrictions to prevent the entry of substandard ships. Amendments to the Maritime Code give maritime agents the right to hold a special transaction account for a shipowner for which they carry out maritime and agency business and for the payment of the costs of the shipowner and for the payment of the shipowner's services. Marine agents receive high fares in their accounts, but for the shipowner’s account – this is money that is not theirs, and without a legal basis they do not have the right to special transaction accounts. Such legal arrangements for special transaction accounts are comparable to the legal arrangements for the specific accounts of notaries, lawyers and administrators of multi-housing houses. The proposed novel also facilitates the service of shipowners and thus reduces the process of the eighth part of the maritime code, enforcement and insurance on board ships. The boatman is always aware of where his ship is and is responsible for taking care of it. It is therefore reasonable and justified that all service relating to a ship situated in a port in Slovenia, while the shipowner has a place of residence or residence abroad, be carried out through a commander who is a legitimate representative of the shipowner or on the ship's siege. In practice, it has been shown that ships are also served in neighbouring countries for more than half a year, while the shipowner is aware that his ship is located in the Slovenian port, but does not take care of it in accordance with the rules. The proposal introduces the possibility that the creditor for whom a temporary order has been issued by stopping the ship proposes the sale of the ship at any time during the period of validity of the decision to suspend the ship, although it does not have an enforceable title, since there is a risk that due to the small value of the ship at the time of execution it would not be paid. In practice, it has been shown that until the creditor obtains the enforceable title, the value of the ship is reduced so that it is not worth triggering the execution on the ship. If this area is not regulated, there is still a risk that ships stopped in Slovenian ports will hold valuable coastal space for a long time and pose an environmental threat. However, the proceedings for obtaining the executive address shall take several years. The debtor still has the right to sail away in exchange for the ship's security. If he does not do so, the purchases obtained from the sale shall be deposited in his account with the court. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code is aligned with the Law on Offences, i.e. the amounts, in the current maritime code laid down in the Tolars, are fixed in euro. In addition, sanctions are provided for under the new substantive provisions. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposal for the amendment of the Maritime Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Zmago Jelinčič Plemeniti.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that. It is necessary to amend the law in order to comply with the directives of the European Union, so this is a logical matter. It is necessary to comply with those six directives and two regulations. However, it is sad that the coalition had to write as many as twenty-two amendments to correct some of the inconsistencies in the law, which in fact one would expect the Ministry of Transport to do. In this case, it is necessary to commend the coalition and, in fact, give little credit to the Ministry of Transport and to the Minister, who is not here now, but it would be good if he listens at least somewhere in the National Assembly. The solution to this new change is also to open the possibility of entering merchant ships into the Slovenian ship register. How many of these ships are going to be logged in is the question, because our benefits are different and higher than in other countries. However, I think it would also make sense to introduce a mandatory entry of ships and boats owned by Slovenian citizens. A whole range of Slovenian politicians and high lords have their yachts registered abroad, even in Croatia, and pay taxes there, while also hiding their property from the public and from the authorities that should pay them taxes. That would make sense to do it, but that's not gonna happen, because some people don't. Perhaps it would also make sense for this law to be amended, I think, paragraph 23, where the second paragraph states that the flag of Slovenia is the national flag of Slovenia. Other countries have a different flag as a flag of the sea, otherwise it is not said that it is a shape, but a colour composition or something like that. I think that by 2001 we had a Slovenian maritime flag in the Maritime Code, and then it just disappeared, it appeared in the wake of the 2006 changes, so of course they said that the flag of the sea was the same as the flag of the State. In the nation, which is a nation of the sea, the Slovenians are a nation of the sea, although they want to take it away from us all, and, in the first place, the Slovenian state and the Slovenian current government, I think we deserve the flag of the sea. If we had it once, we could have it today. Unless Pahor, as he now predicted, would have joint embassies in the world of Slovenians and Croats to do so again, all Slovenian ships would have sailed under the Croatian flag. I expect it to be clear that you and Kosor have talked about this as well. Strange things are happening in this Slovenia. Adapting laws to European directives alone is not enough. We should also do something for our country, for our pride, for our people, but I think it is too much to ask the government in this mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Jerič will present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Government representatives, fellow Members! Maritime law is one of the oldest and most extensive legal areas in all. For centuries, its individual legal institutes have developed and the law of the sea system, as we know it today. For Slovenia, as a legal country in which maritime law relations exist, it is essential that it has a thoroughly regulated and updated legal area covering both the administrative and organisational part and the rules on contractual and compensation relations relating to maritime navigation. The current maritime code was adopted in March 2001 after years of preparation. So far, the Maritime Code has been amended and supplemented three times. This is not unusual, as maritime law is highly internationalised. Its historical and current development is characterised by the fact that international conventions and other forms of international unification are often created before national laws. Today, in essence, the entire area of maritime law is covered by international or inter-State or autonomous rules, and Slovenian legislation must also adapt and comply with all international conventions and other acts binding on Slovenia as well as those sources that are widely used at international level. This is exactly the same example of adaptation as the amendment to the Code of the Sea. In 2009, a so-called third maritime package covering six directives and two regulations was adopted within the EU. The transposition of some of these acts is the main reason for amending and supplementing the Maritime Code as it is required to bring its provisions into line with the new rules, to establish the legal basis for the transposition of such rules into the Slovenian legal order and to lay down sanctions for infringements of these rules. In addition to the transfer of the EU acquis, we would like to highlight in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia the following innovations brought by the proposed novels or amendment of the Maritime Code. First time. Opening the possibility of entering merchant ships into the Slovenian Ship Register while ensuring a high standard of ship safety under the Slovenian flag. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we hope that this will begin the process that will lead to the entry of the merchant ships of our largest shipowner, who has been in foreign ownership for several years now, into the Slovenian ship register. While this is at least at the declaratory level, we are aware that by then it is likely that the area of competitive employment of domestic and foreign seafarers will have to be regulated, that part of the mortgage law will have to be changed and that some other changes will have to be made to the minor. Another time. Provision of hydrographic activities for safety of navigation in the way it is already in practice. Third time. Provision of a smooth compulsory towing of vessels and maritime aviation to be designated as a selective public service in the Kore cargo port, where this is necessary for the safe and smooth conduct of port activities in this port. And the fourth time. Greater legal certainty for creditors with the possibility of selling the ship before obtaining the enforcement address. With regard to this solution, following a warning from the Legal and Legislative Service, an amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups has been introduced to the benefit of the debtor. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the proposed amendment of the Maritime Code.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Miroslav Klun.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. The maritime code of the Republic of Slovenia regulates sovereignty, sovereign rights, jurisdiction and control of Slovenia at sea, the safety of navigation by territorial sea and inland sea waters and the protection of the sea from pollution by vessels and the legal regime of positions. The Act was adopted in 2001 and then amended three times in 2002, 2004 and 2006. In 2009, the European Union adopted a third Erika III maritime package covering 6 Directives and 2 Regulations. The amendments and additions to the Maritime Code mainly follow the following objectives, principles and solutions: the transfer of the acquis of the European Union, the provision of a smooth choice of towing and maritime aviation, the provision of hydrographic activities to ensure the safety of navigation and the implementation of obligations under international conventions binding the Republic of Slovenia, the opening of the possibility of entering merchant ships into the Slovenian Ship Register while ensuring a high standard of ship safety under the Slovenian flag, the opening of special transaction accounts to maritime agents, and the alignment of fines with the law on offences. The proposal also provides for the smooth compulsory towing of vessels and maritime pilotage, which are designated as a selective economic public service in the port of Kore. The Republic of Slovenia is with Luka Koper 18. 9. 2008 signed the concession contract. Under this contract, the port manager has become a state and public economic services must be ensured. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the transfer of Erik's 3rd maritime package is necessary, as it is the basis for preventing accidents at sea while at the same time providing an effective response in the event of accidents. We will support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group will be presented by Mr Branko Marinič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u102	I thank the President for his word. Nice hello to you all! We will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Maritime Code in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. It is a matter of minor changes and additions to the law. It is the termination of individual provisions of the law and the less difficult harmonisation of the law with other laws or with the legal order of the European Union. The amendments submitted to the Maritime Code provide a legal basis for the transposition of EU rules, the so-called Erika III maritime package, and address the shortcomings identified so far. The proposed changes improve the principle of safety of navigation, the protection of human life at sea and the prevention of pollution of the sea. Despite the large number of amendments to the coalition, 22 of them, we will support the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u103	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 28th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 28. PERIOD OF THE DAY – THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A RESOLUTION ON THE NATIONAL PROGRAMME FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE MORNING OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA. For a further explanation of the motion for a resolution submitted to us by the Government, please the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Transport, Dr Igor Jakomin.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u104	Thank you very much. The Resolution on the National Maritime Development Programme in the Republic of Slovenia is a strategic document which, taking into account national legislation, European Union legislation and its guidelines and maritime policy, provides conditions for sustainable and integrated maritime development, with particular emphasis on maritime safety. The programme represents a vision and co-creates the situation for maritime development and thus makes better use of the advantages such as the exit to the Adriatic Sea, the modern cargo and passenger port and the maritime activity of the targeted economy and education. The national programme aims to preserve and improve the safety of navigation, quality of life, environmental protection, port infrastructure, an influential economy and tourism in the northern Adriatic region and to provide better opportunities for the development of Slovenia into a modern maritime country. The national programme places particular emphasis on the protection of the marine environment while ensuring maritime transport safety. Measures are envisaged to prevent the safety of navigation and the protection of the sea from major pollution by allowing the competent authorities to improve their response in the event of accidents or hazardous maritime situations. It has a positive impact on the economy with the planned increase in port infrastructure capacity, during which the construction of the third pier is particularly important, which will contribute to the increase of transhipment in the port of Kore. Developmental visions regarding the entry of ships into the Slovenian Ship Register and the tax relief of shipowners also have an important impact on the economy. As a result, increased investments in the maritime sector will increase the volume of freight flows and services in the maritime sector and related industries, which will indirectly have a positive impact on the development of the entire Slovenian economy. The programme has a positive impact on the social situation of individuals directly involved in maritime affairs, as well as indirectly on others, in the maritime sector of the wider associated social groups. The social impact of the measures in the section on education in order to increase interest in maritime occupations among young people and increase the number of Slovenian seafarers employed on ships, as well as the planned increase in the number of jobs in the shipbuilding and port activities. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The resolution on the national maritime development programme of the Republic of Slovenia, which is ahead of you today, is a document that has been coordinated with all stakeholders in the maritime sector, prepared by the profession and therefore supported by the entire maritime economy, and in particular a document that represents an important contribution to development in a modern maritime country. For this reason, I propose that the motion for a resolution on the national maritime development programme be confirmed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The motion for a resolution was considered by the Committee on Pollution as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Jank Webr.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u106	Thanks again for saying that. At its 12th meeting, on 5 October, the Transport Committee considered the resolution and in an introduction to the motion for a resolution, the representative of the motioner, Dr. Janez Požar, took up the content of individual chapters. He pointed out, however, that this was the first broader document since 1995 which referred to Slovenia as a maritime state. For individual chapters, however, the importance and role of the maritime economy in the Republic of Slovenia would be highlighted. The proposed national programme aims to increase the number of ships flying the Slovenian flag. The role of maritime transport security is also identified, which is very important due to the vulnerability of our coastal and maritime areas, as well as the economic importance of ports, as ports are an important catalyst for economic development. Slovenia has a port, which is one of the best in the Mediterranean Sea after its effectiveness and efficiency. With regard to maritime transport safety, it is envisaged that new maritime traffic control systems will be set up to achieve the proposed solutions to improve navigation safety in Slovenia. The development of sea grapes is also an important chapter. This is one of the most up-to-date issues in finding solutions that would also keep the economic power and position of maritime activities in the European Union at global level in the future or increase them further. The representative of the proposer also highlighted the importance of maritime education, as there is a problem of shortage of personnel in the maritime sector, as maritime activity today is probably the most deficient sector in terms of professions themselves. This is one of those chapters that will still need to be carefully implemented in practice. He also highlighted the importance of the passenger port of Koper. It will be necessary to build an international maritime passenger terminal in order to stop large passenger ships in Cyprus on international passenger lines and, of course, tourist cruises. These are some of the highlights in these chapters. The Legal and Legislative Service has also examined only the resolution. All the comments she had were also duly summarised in the amendments adopted by the Committee. In the context of the general debate, the representative of the Ministry of Environment and Space stressed the importance of Chapter 15 which speaks of the protection of the marine environment in Slovenia, in particular in order to define and take account of ecosystem services of the marine and coastal environment. The members of the Committee supported the motion for a resolution and consider it a good start for a number of different measures to develop the maritime development of the Republic of Slovenia. The programme provides a basis for the establishment of maritime transport and port development and a starting point for the coordination of maritime education programmes with the economy. It is also important to establish sea grapes that combine the Slovenian maritime economy. The proposed resolution as a strategic document also shows the vision that Slovenia wants to become a key vehicle for development in this area in the Western Balkans. This was the position of the members of the committee. The Committee has considered all the amendments tabled. He accepted the amendments of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS groups, but did not accept the amendments of Ambassador Franz Yuri, who spoke of the Coast Guard. In addition to the amendments, the Committee also addressed all the remaining chapters and also adopted them. A motion for a resolution on the national maritime development programme of the Republic of Slovenia, as drafted by the Transport Committee, is before you today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u107	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u108	Mr Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The motion for a resolution sets out guidelines for the sustainable development of maritime transport and maritime safety. This is the first national maritime development programme, following the 1991 Resolution, which speaks only of Slovenia being a maritime-oriented country. This strategic document, which, according to the Director-General of Maritime Affairs of the Ministry of Transport, is highly supportive of the professional public, seeks to bring maritime affairs closer to people and, given the staffing difficulties in the maritime economy, to ensure appropriate links between the management of the maritime profession and on-shore employment. The sea is one of the fastest economic industries in the world, which is also indicated by the proposed resolution. Due to the lack of personnel for maritime purposes, future development plans are presented in a special chapter. While the global crisis affected global ports with a drop of 18 to 50%, the Cyprus port of cargo recorded a decrease of 3%, while this year's first half managed to increase the transhipment by about 45%. Particular attention is paid to maritime safety, which is also due to the fact that the North Adriatic is one of the most heavily burdened seas and a possible environmental disaster could cause irreparable damage to the entire ecosystem. Slovenia, as a small maritime country, can consider it an honour to adopt the European Union maritime policy at the time of the Presidency of Slovenia and to declare it a European Maritime Day on 20 May. The Director-General of the Maritime Directorate further explained the content and objectives of the national programme in response to questions raised by Commission members. It should be stressed that we are Slovenians and therefore we need a strategic document that will provide opportunities for sustainable and integrated maritime development or balance the interests of the economy and the protection of the marine environment and the expectations of the local environment. The resolution in the framework of spatial planning or coastal space management constitutes the procedure for the adoption of the State Spatial Plan for the Comprehensive Spatial Arrangement of the port for international public transport in Cyprus. In the DeSUS Group, we agree with the proposaler that Luka Koper will gain weight in maritime motorways only with appropriate links to European transport infrastructure, with timely construction of the second Koper-Divač railway track, which, according to the proposaler, is also in the interests of shipowners. In view of the unsatisfactory social and health safety of seafarers whose work is difficult and responsible, in the DeSUS Group we support the proposaler's efforts to ensure that the funds to offset the costs of the health and social contributions of 300 seafarers are covered by the State budget. As it is a matter of maritime skills, we believe that a different approach to education from the established regime is appropriate, and it can also constitute such an important factor in making the maritime profession more attractive. After two years of university studies, young people would obtain a certificate under the STCW Convention, which is the basis for obtaining a licence to work on a ship. In connection with the fact that seafarers leave ships after about 7 to 10 years and are left to themselves, it is good that seafarers who do not want to sail again are trained and trained to work in the maritime economy. In order to facilitate the participation of the Ministry of Transport, including Luka Koper, we support the establishment of an interdepartmental working group to monitor the implementation of the national programme. We also support the motion for a resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Zmago Jelinčič noble has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u110	Thank you very much. In the event of this resolution, it is to a large extent a phantom document. Why? The whole series of chapters is here, which are more or less their own purpose. Otherwise, it is the first document to speak after 1995 that Slovenia is a maritime state, but from 1995 to today, we seem to have forgotten everything. Let us go to the third chapter, which discusses the importance and role of the maritime economy in Slovenia. He's talking about the meaning, but we gave away our only big company, which was a piranha general voyage. We don't have it anymore. The German has it in his hands. Since Lucky Friend has been digging in this direction, there is also such a large prison to a large extent. Let's move on. When it comes to maritime safety, it is a fact that we must only follow the international situation in this area. Only where it is said that a practical part of the boat management exam should be introduced can we remember that Minister Kresalova has already passed such a practical exam on a police boat. When we are talking about the copier's port of cargo, we should know that the bulky cargo that is now in the port of Kohorje should be removed from this port and replaced with other cargo. But it's not that we're transporting environmentally-controversial issues, and in fact, we're making a hell of a lot of money. And the railway connection could be said about that. Speaking of the passenger port in Cyprus, it should be recalled that Minister Radičeva said that passenger cruisers would destroy Koper, just as they destroyed Dubrovnik. Interesting. When we are talking about shipping and we are trying to get the merchant ships flying foreign flags back, it is necessary to know that there is a need to regulate tax policy and other matters. When we talk about shipbuilding and shipbuilding, it is important to know that this is good money, but that those who do so have already gone to neighbouring Italy, where they have significantly better conditions. Interesting. Ivo Boscarol will be leaving shortly. As Minister Vlačič has not yet arranged an agreement between the United States of America and Slovenia to enable Boscarol to sell its aircraft as a Slovenian product abroad, they will go around the world as Italian products. Speaking of hydrography and cartography, I think it would make sense to get back at least something that they had at the Hydrographic War Institute in Split – there is also some Slovenian heritage. But we sell the rest of the Geological and Geographical Institute to Croats for a minimum price, and we probably won't be doing much here either. The protection of the marine environment and ecology is discussed, and then we have various services that require certain types of fish and seahorses to be removed from the piranhas, for example, because this is not in accordance with our legislation, so that they should be kept there and so on. In short, I'm an idiot. Then we have a set of policy measures and coordination. Here it seems that we will leave it all to the Croats in one way or another, because it seems that the Croats are working very hard, and this is very successful, and it is also supported by Prime Minister Borut Pahor. And the last chapter, I don't know why we call it the maritime legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, we could write sources and literature, but it would be much more transparent and much simpler. And there's one other thing I'd like to turn to. Article 1 of the Maritime Code, now amended, also states that the word "Slovenia" should be added "and by river to the border to which they are sailed from the sea side". It would also be useful to consider inland navigation in Slovenia. We don't have rivers that we could sail from the sea to the depths of our country, but we could have inland navigation. Therefore, it is necessary to have a little more brain, a little more open eyes, look at what is happening in Europe, and implement it in Slovenia. We may be able to do this in about 70, 80 years, but maybe we'll come under Croatian command, just like Pahor wants us to, probably sooner.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u111	Mr Miran Jerič has the floor on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u112	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Representative of the Government, fellow Members, fellow Members! The fact that Slovenia is a maritime state does not need to be justified, and last but not least we are one of the few countries that has the sea in its symbol. It is a worrying finding that, by our seamanship or the fact that we have been and are still a marine nation with a rich maritime history, we are not aware of or aware of enough. Well, that's not the worst of it. It is a terrible mistake that our rich maritime heritage and our outstanding geographical position cannot be used well enough. Our country is geographically located in the heart of Europe and has a relatively developed transport infrastructure and a successful link on overseas transport routes, which is an extremely comparative advantage. In view of this and given the fact that the Resolution on the Maritime Direction of the Republic of Slovenia was adopted at the time of the birth of the independent Slovenian State in 1991, the rapid and successful development of our maritime system was expected. I'm afraid that didn't happen. At that time, an excellent resolution has been forgotten over time, the development of Slovenia has somehow bypassed the sea, which has been more or less left to itself for the past 20 years. Of course, here we are not just referring to the Cyprus trading port, whose development has been left to Luka Koper, or to the development of our largest general shipping ship, which, unfortunately, has been in foreign ownership for several years now, or to the construction of a new railway connection between Koper and Divisco. It is too slow or problematic to develop or even to stagnate other maritime activities, both traditional and coastal fisheries, shipbuilding, small and traditional vessels, shellfish farming, passenger ports, maritime agencies, education, research and sea exploration, spatial planning and coastal areas. Of course, we also need to mention some positive things, such as the adoption of the first Slovenian Maritime Code in 2001, the construction of the highway to Kopra and, above all, the successful consolidation of the market position of the port of Koper in the world and its takeover of the seat of the leading port on the Adriatic. Following the aforementioned Resolution on the Maritime Direction of the Republic of Slovenia of 1991 and the 2001 Maritime Code, we receive a strategic document with the National Maritime Development Programme of the Republic of Slovenia, which is intended to provide conditions for the sustainable and integrated development of our maritime system by defining the state, objectives and measures. At the same time, it is expected to create a situation for maritime development and thus make better use of the already mentioned comparative advantage resulting from the geostrategic position of Slovenia. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we welcome the basic ambition of the national programme to lay the real foundations for the development of Slovenia into a modern maritime state. With regard to the content of the national programme itself, we would like to point out in the LDS that, with its objectives and measures, it wants to strike a balance between the development of maritime activities and the maintenance and improvement of the quality of life, in particular to preserve and improve the safety of navigation, environmental protection, to accelerate the development of port infrastructure and to allow for the further development of tourism on and at 43 kilometres of the Slovenian coast, which is part of an extremely sensitive and vulnerable Northern Adriatic ecosystem. Finally, let me point out our view that the problem of such and similar national programmes is not so much in their substantive focus and solutions, but mainly in the fact that they are soon forgotten by their adoption. There are some examples, and the responsibility for this is well shared among all governments in Slovenia. In LDS, we see Slovenia as a modern maritime country in the future because that will make us all better. A few important answers to the question of how to become a modern maritime country also brings the national programme under consideration, and we will therefore wish that this practice on such and similar strategic documents will begin to change, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we will support the Resolution on the National Maritime Development Programme.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Miroslav Klun has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. The resolution on the national maritime development programme of the Republic of Slovenia or the national programme is a strategic document which, by defining the state, objectives and measures, provides conditions for sustainable and integrated maritime development, with a focus on ensuring maritime safety. At the same time, it means a vision and co-creates a situation for maritime development and thus a more effective use of the advantage, such as an exit to the Adriatic Sea, a modern cargo and passenger port and a targeted economy and education in maritime activities. The national programme aims to preserve and improve the safety of navigation, quality of life, environmental protection, port infrastructure, economic and tourism impact on the sensitive area of the North Adriatic and to provide better opportunities for the development of Slovenia into a modern maritime country. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the resolution constitutes the beginning of a series of different measures that we have already entered into the alternative government programme and initialled in the 2008-2012 coalition agreement. That is why we support the national programme in the Social Democrats Group, as it provides the basis for the establishment of a system of shipping and ports and establishes maritime clusters that bring together the Slovenian maritime economy. The programme also provides a starting point for coordinating transport education programmes with the economy. The resolution, in the most ambitious sense, suggests that Slovenia wants to become a key player in the Western Balkans area, which through its territory would channel freight flows on the motorways of the sea in this part of Europe. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the Resolution on the National Maritime Development Programme of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Marinič has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u116	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! The legal basis for the creation of the Resolution on the National Maritime Development Programme of the Republic of Slovenia is set out in Article 33 of the Maritime Code. A rather extensive and bulky publication, called the resolution, is also based on some other documents that have been adopted in the past period. It seems very important for us to put forward here the Resolution on National Development Projects 2007-2023 adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia 12. Ten. 2006. With regard to the content of the resolution, it is necessary to highlight some of the content which quite accurately analyse the actual situation, but the comparison between the findings of the situation and the measures to improve the situation is not based on some realistic and serious basis. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we therefore want the document – the resolution – to be a real reflection, a picture of the actual situation on the one hand and, on the other hand, a realistic, rather than a ambitious plan of how content will develop in the maritime transport sector in the future. If I were to take the complete content that we have examined in our parliamentary group, we could say that it is kind of a pre-ambitious state that says something will improve, but if we look at the actual situation, we don't get a yes to that. Well, more than the resolution itself, in our parliamentary group, we consider it to be more important concrete documents, which must be a real basis for development in all areas or contents within maritime development in the Republic of Slovenia. Slovenia is not large in this respect, but is a serious enough partner to face certain facts and certain measures in comparable countries based on the practice of some other European countries which are fortunate enough to have organised maritime transport. We, too, want to succeed in the Republic of Slovenia with everything we have in the field of natural property and infrastructure, which together helps to develop maritime development, based on real analysis based on realistically planned content that will put Slovenia aside developed countries in the sense of maritimeism in the future. In the parliamentary group, we assess that the content of the resolution does not guarantee everything, so we will vote against the adoption of this resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Vito Rožej has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, chairman. Colleagues, colleagues, government representatives! The motion for a resolution on the national maritime programme was based on a number of acts already adopted and in force. Furthermore, it takes into account the current guidelines and policies of the European Union in the maritime field. The content of the document is based on an analysis of the current state and situation of maritime transport, maritime safety and the role and importance of maritime transport for the economy and social development. Maritime change, with a focus on maritime safety, is triggering new developments that require the fastest possible follow-up and implementation in practice. As has already been said, it is a strategic document, the first broader since 1995, which speaks of Slovenia as a maritime state. It also contains a definition of the state, objectives and measures and provides opportunities for sustainable and integrated development of the country in this area as well. It also includes a vision and co-creates the situation for maritime development, thereby making better use of advantages such as the exit to the Adriatic Sea, modern cargo and passenger ports and in maritime activities targeted economy and education. The national programme shall be divided into chapters which are rounded-off and which define for each chapter the state, analysis, advantages, weaknesses, action proposals, action plan and financial implications. In the Really Group, we support the content of the act because we are aware of the importance and opportunities offered by our geostrategic position. Regardless of the correct content of the act, within the Committee on Transport we wanted to highlight an area which, according to our assessment, should be better regulated, more rational and, above all, more efficient. As part of the fourth chapter on maritime safety, which is the most sensitive maritime area, we have also proposed the establishment of a so-called coast guard. The fact is that in the Republic of Slovenia, the provision of greater maritime safety, maritime protection and the coastal and coastal environment, as well as the control of various maritime activities, is divided among several ministries: between the Ministries of Transport, Foreign Affairs, Environment and Space, Finance, Defence, Foreign Affairs, Agriculture, Forestry and Food, and among the various services or bodies, between the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and the Police Administration of the Republic of Slovenia Koper, the Customs Office of the Koper, the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Environment, the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, among the Slovenian Army, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection and Resolution. In view of the better and more effective functioning of these competent services, it would therefore be prudent to consider the establishment of a Coast Guard as a single authority for the exercise of maritime safety, coastal and coastal responsibility, as well as maritime activities. This idea of a new, unified sea service, which would combine the powers of several ministries and perform tasks from different fields, exists for a number of years. The 1991 Maritime Guidance Resolution states that the Republic of Slovenia will develop a service or service to control the sea and coast in the safety, navigation, ecological, health and fiscal areas and to protect the maritime border. Following the inter-ministerial coordination of various interests and the preparation of the basis for establishing the Coast Guard, as a single authority for the exercise of competences in the field of life security, maritime and maritime security and the coastal environment, the project died down in 2004 with an argument on possible better coordination between different services and bodies. Therefore, a decision was adopted in 2006 on the establishment of coordination of maritime services. The previous reports on its work and individual analyses, events and measures show that the coordination of maritime services has already passed through the framework of the basic tasks and duties it had at the time following the decision of the Government. The individual powers of the members and decisions of the Government are no longer sufficient to make more difficult or rapid decisions. The development of events and commitments has also shown that the current framework of action has been exceeded and a new form of cooperation or organisation is needed. The future upgrade to the coordination of maritime services should therefore follow the example of many EU maritime Member States, such as Finland, Sweden and others, in the direction of its transformation. The competent ministry, as was said on the home working body, nevertheless agrees with the situation described, but was not accepted at this stage. After a subsequent interview with the competent minister, it was said that the organisational structure would rewind costs that would allow further action to be taken. As stated in the introduction, in the Group of Members, we will indeed support the resolution, bearing in mind that this area is still not optimally regulated according to our assessment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Ribič has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! We Slovenians have always been a maritime nation and therefore we need a strategic document to ensure that maritime development is sustainable and integrated. Above all, it is important to balance the interests of the economy, the protection of the marine environment and the expectations of the local environment. Members of the Slovenian People's Party therefore support the new maritime development programme following the 1991 resolution. We welcome the attempt to bring this strategic document closer to the people of the sea and, given the staffing difficulties in the maritime economy, to ensure the appropriate links between maritime occupation and land-based employment. The sea is one of the fastest-growing industries in the world, which is also indicated by the proposed resolution, and is therefore facing a shortage of personnel, which is regulated in a specific chapter where future development plans are presented. We support the arrangement that after two years of university study they will obtain a certificate under the STCW Convention, which is the basis for obtaining a ship's employment licence. In connection with the fact that seafarers leave ships after about seven to ten years and are left to themselves, it is good that seafarers who do not want to sail again are trained and trained to work in the maritime economy. While the global crisis affected global ports with a drop in cargo of 18% to 50%, the drop in the Kore cargo port was only 3%, while this year's cargo even increased by 45%. We welcome the fact that there is a particular emphasis on maritime safety, since the North Adriatic area is one of the most heavily burdened seas and a possible environmental disaster could be irreparable damage to the entire ecosystem. Slovenia, as a small maritime country, can consider it an honour to announce to the European Union on 20 May as the European Maritime Day during the Presidency of Slovenia. However, we are interested in this development programme whether adequate resources are provided in the budget or whether the objective of spatial regulation will be achieved in 2010. We also believe that it would be a good idea to introduce the provisions of the Resolution on the Adriatic Strategy adopted last year into the programme. For the future of the port, it is also necessary to ensure that the division of the Municipality of Koper does not affect the efficiency and safety of the port of Koper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u121	Thank you very much. We have ended by moving the positions of the groups of Members. No amendments were tabled to the motion for a resolution. The decision on the motion for a resolution will be made in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby end this item of the agenda, and I also interrupt the 21st meeting of the Assembly, which we shall continue to vote on at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u122	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the vote of the National Assembly on the proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 23rd item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Bill on Road Traffic Rules. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a road transport law is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party Branko Marinič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u123	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we estimate that in the field of road safety, it is necessary to cut down on certain measures, but not just by amending legislation. As we know, it is a package of transport legislation that has divided the content of the Road Safety Act into the contents of four new laws. The Road Traffic Rules Act is one of those that regulates this area. As part of our presentation of the position, we have found that some of the content of the individual articles of the bill is flawed, so we have opinions and will vote on the proposal for a decision that the content of the law is not suitable for further consideration. So we're up against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u124	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 16. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 16.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated for second reading to the Committee on Transport as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 22nd item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Roads. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a road law is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 68 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 21. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 21.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated for second reading to the Committee on Transport as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code in the framework of the reduced procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body made the proposal of the law inconsistent. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 73 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 28th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the motion for a resolution on the national maritime development programme of the Republic of Slovenia. As the amendments to the supplementary motion for a resolution have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the motion for a resolution. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home working body, the motion for a resolution would not be harmonised. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 20. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 20.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Amendment of the Law amending the Law on Agricultural Lands in the framework of the shorter procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Agricultural Lands Act is not suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u125	Thank you very much. We will not support this proposal for a decision. For a year and a half, this National Assembly has already fully agreed on the need to amend the quorum concerning the introduction of the eighty percent of the necessary agreement to 67%, but we have not been able to adopt and release these procedures in three attempts of the law. The reason is that the Ministry is to draw up a comprehensive law that would also regulate these procedures at other levels, even in the appeal work, but unfortunately not for a year and a half. In response to the question sent by the Minister of the Jews at the end of August, it was stated that the law would be submitted in early September, that two months had passed and that time was not maintained. It is not only a problem that you do not accept the law and the solution we offer, but it is also a problem that for more than two years the Ministry has not made any calls for the introduction of commotion procedures, and the problems in the Slovenian countryside, especially where agricultural areas are scattered, fragmented because they are small economies, are only exacerbated. It is no wonder, therefore, that we are facing a major problem of the collapse of agricultural land, that cultural landscapes are disappearing, that processing areas are disappearing, that the forest border is expanding and that problems are taking place in these rural areas. I propose that the coalition, because you obviously cannot prepare the law, does not support this proposal for a working body decision and that we adopt this law as soon as possible. In short, to continue the process on the working body and to do at least something in this area, because with these systemic and comprehensive solutions to be offered and prepared by the coalition, there will be nothing for a long time. In the discussion, Mr Saiovic said that 7 hectares of agricultural land were being destroyed daily. This means every day and, let's say, at this time when we didn't adopt the law, it took about 5,000, 6,000 hectares of the best agricultural land that has grown, and it's probably not there that we'll ever do anything in the near future to raise production and self-sustainment. I therefore propose that you do not support this proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u126	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 75 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 31. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 31.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Equalization of the Opportunities of Persons with Disabilities. Since the amendments to the bill have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. I'm informing you that the Legal and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the marriage would be inconsistent. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present. 54 votes against no one. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Small Work Bill. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 4. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 74 Members and Members present. 44 votes to 24. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 24.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 41. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 28. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 28.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 42. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 25. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. I'm informing you that the Legal and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the marriage would be inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? On behalf of the SDS Group, Alenka Jeraj. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u127	Thank you so much for saying that. We will not support the small work law in our parliamentary group. We've already given the reasons several times. We believe that we are embarking on an adventure that will undermine the system that is or is now in force and would need some adjustments. We agree with this and also want to regulate the field of student work so that there is no abuse and exploitation by employers and also student services for those who are the most vulnerable in this process, i.e. students and students. However, we believe that with some measures and better control of these things, we could do much better than to adopt a small work law and introduce an additional administration, which is certain to happen, although the ministry says it is not. We put in one of the same starting points three so different groups, which are both of interest to each other, why we should do small work, and also very different ones, i.e. students, unemployed and pensioners. It is also very difficult for us to place the unemployed in this category or to estimate that, according to the experiences they have in other countries, the same will happen to us, so that the unemployed will remain unemployed forever and will carry out their work on the basis of the Small Work Act and will inevitably be employed by the remaining small workers instead of regular workers. We are also concerned that the Ministry did not ask why and how it is possible that in 2009 47 student services with 250 employees for 12 million euros carried out all the procedures for student work for 150 000 students and students, while the Employment Office, which belongs to the Ministry of Labour, with 900 employees for 45 million euros, is carrying out procedures for 100,000 unemployed people. If we put such an additional burden on the Employment Office now, we are afraid that they will be even less effective and that there will be more of these backlogs and even fewer jobs, as well as positive outcomes for the unemployed, so that they will end up as regular employees. Therefore, in the SDS Group we will vote against the Small Work Act and I propose that you do the same for the rest.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Is there any other group that would like to explain its voice? They don't want an emissary group. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. Please, for your application. Explanation of the vote in his own name, Marijan Pojbič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u129	Madam President, I have already made it very clear that I will not support this law in any way. I am convinced that a law that unites so many groups of people into one marriage cannot be good. And in this marriage, the pensioners, the unemployed and the students are united. I am sure that this law will bring no good, especially to the employees. The problem is that these employees in Slovenia already have very low salaries, extremely low incomes, incomes that are practically impossible to survive with. These are incomes that are there between 400, 500 and 600 euros. Most of these employees are still receiving food compensation, reimbursement of transport costs, regress and annual leave. For all those who will be employed in a small part, this is impossible. It is said that with this law we will bring the new low-wage employees absolutely to the threshold of poverty. They won't even reach the threshold of poverty. And that is what is unacceptable, unacceptable in this law, and that is why I personally strongly oppose the solutions offered by this law. Besides, I have to mention the students. I am convinced that the student problem and the anomalies that were taking place during the student work could be significantly different. However, if we already include them in this law, it would be extremely important that we first come with the law on scholarships. And if we had this law on scholarships, we would also have a basis for trying to enable students or at least those students who were practically unable to study without work through student services so that they could study normally. That is why I think this law is very bad and extremely harmful for the Slovenian population and the Slovenian political space.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u131	Good-bye to all of you! Social dialogue is a value on which a large part of Slovenian politics was based all the time after the creation of the independent state of Slovenia. Unfortunately, the law before us today is proof that the Government has not only forgotten social dialogue, the government has deliberately disrupted social dialogue in this law and has thus provoked social dialogue, if we paraphrase Clausewitz, to continue with other means before the Slovenian Parliament, thereby diverting attention from its extremely poor economic achievements, from the economic downturn to other things. No government has the legitimacy for anything like that. And when it comes to fundamental values, which is without a doubt social dialogue, the goal certainly does not devote funds, so I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u132	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 32. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 32.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda – the third consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Fees, the ordinary procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, Zvonko Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u133	We do not support this novel in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group for two fundamental reasons. The first is that this law also increases the tax burden on the population. Approximately €10 million per year will have to be paid by users for these services. And the second reason is the lack of transparency, illogicalness, inconsistentness, the accumulation of tariffs. Novela was an ideal opportunity for these things to be fixed. In the position of the Group of Members, I have mentioned only one case to repeat. For the same administrative work, which is called road closure, when it comes to performing works on the road, it is necessary to pay 1.81 euros a fee when it comes to an event on the same road and 18.12 euros a tax, it is said, 10 times more, knowing that events are mainly organised by societies, cultural non-profit organisations. In short, the illogicalness that I have mentioned at this rate of illogicality is innumerable, the tariff is impractical. On the other hand, the increase envisaged by this amendment takes over all of us, especially those with the lowest income, which in most cases are also beneficiaries of these services, €10 million more. This government, which is supposed to be considered a social democracy, is primarily concerned about those with the highest income. This wealth does not disturb it, but every day it invents and introduces and legalizes new taxes, new taxes and new burdens, as well as when it comes to raising administrative fees. The funds are taken from citizens and citizens' already modest pockets. We cannot support this in the parliamentary group, nor can we support new and new tax burdens, not even those that mean tax. In the position of the Group of Members, it was also mentioned that excise duty is tax, but this government is not enough. Also on excise duty, look at the electricity, charged 20% of the value added tax. It's not anywhere in Europe, it's not anywhere in the world. This is only under the Social Democratic Government in Slovenia, to pay taxes and to increase tax burdens from day to day, from month to month, from year to year. One such example is the additional capture from taxpayers' pockets through an increase in administrative fees. We're opposed to that. We also regret that this novel has not been used to simplify the system and to allow a transparent, transparent simplification system through this amendment, which would provide, on the one hand, an adequate reimbursement for the services being provided and, on the other hand, the flexibility of the state apparatus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u134	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 73 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 29. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it adopt the following decision: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the Administrative Fees Act. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 73 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 6. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against six.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 18th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments under the ordinary procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled for the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 65 votes against 6. [[The vote was 65.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it adopt the following decision: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 73 Members and Members present, 66 votes against 5. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 19th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the draft law amending the Income Law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Income Act is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Rado Likar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u135	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal for a law amending the law on income. The proposed law aims at the tax or financial burden of independent entrepreneurs of individuals who represent an important part of the Slovenian economy. The proposed amendment would take account of the difference between income and expenditure in the definition of income from activities which constitutes the criterion for the application of additional general relief as an activity expenditure, including contributions to the social security of the entrepreneur. With the proposal for a law amending the Income Act, we want to give a clear signal to the small economy that the state wants them and comes in the opposite direction of overcoming the crisis, the crisis period, because we are aware that we need a good or a better business environment to develop and expand our business. At the same time, small entrepreneurs will be able to transfer their entrepreneurial ideas more easily into concrete projects that will have more added value. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the law is suitable for further consideration and we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u136	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 40. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 40.]] I note that the National Assembly has not adopted the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Operations in Insolvency and Forced Cessation Procedures. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Financial Operations Act in insolvency and forced termination proceedings is appropriate for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, Rado Likar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u137	Thanks again. We will also support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. The main solution to the proposed law is the public disclosure of unpaid debtors. The obligation to publish publicly covers debtors from both the private and public sectors, both legal persons and individual entrepreneurs. With the proposed law, we want to improve payment discipline in Slovenia. The adoption of this law would make it easier for entrepreneurs, especially small entrepreneurs, to review the conclusion of business and who has settled obligations and who does not have them. We are aware that this would not completely eliminate payment non-discipline, but would certainly have an indirect effect on improving payment discipline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-26-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u138	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 70 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 39. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 39.]] I note that the National Assembly has not adopted the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 30th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the 15th Annual Annual Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2009. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Recommendation to the 15th Annual Report of the Ombudsman for 2009. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 71 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the recommendation has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 25th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Motor Vehicles. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on motor vehicles is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 19. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 19.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated for second reading to the Committee on Transport as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 24th item of the agenda, this is with the first reading of the Proposal for a Drivers Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a driver law is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 71 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 18. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 18.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated for second reading to the Committee on Transport as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 21st session of the National Assembly. I inform Members and Members that the assembly will continue its work with the 31st extraordinary meeting at 15.50. Goodbye until 15.50.
