ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-08-DSPG004.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The next item is the Official Gazette of the Galician Parliament of 4 September. There's no justification for non-attendance. So we're going into the development of the agenda, and that's why I ask the secretary to read the agenda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-08-DSPG004.u2	One point. Institutional declaration of opening of the XI legislation. Institutional declaration of opening of the XI legislation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-08-DSPG004.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary. President of the Galician Parliament, councillors and advisers, spokesmen, ladies and gentlemen, journalists, employees of the Galician Parliament, we quote ourselves, in an unprecedented scenario due to the health circumstances of which we are all aware, at the solemn opening session of the XI legislate of the Galician Parliament. I apologize for not being able to count in the gallery with the guests who, on other occasions, as today's day, honored us with their presence, and I vote for normalcy in a reasonable time. We seconded this afternoon a summons that formally marks the start of the work of the Chamber of Justice from the ceremonies held on July 12th. We must begin by congratulating your lordships for the trust placed in each of us by the Greeks and the Greeks who have chosen us in the polls freely and democratically, with the security and confidence that we respond to that feeling by offering the best of each one to the service of Galicia and its people. Members and Members who join the Galician Parliament for the first time are particularly welcome, where they will have the opportunity to carry out their high order. We are all Members of the Galician Parliament, which is an honour and a responsibility that should be placed above the partisan interests and ideological postulates in which each legitimate and democratically militare. They have and will have in this parliament adequate tools - technological and, above all, regulatory - to channel and exercise the control and impulse functions that the House has commissioned. From the Presidency I encourage all your honourable Members, regardless of the parliamentary group to which they are ascribed, to make full use of all the possibilities available to them by the House Rules of Procedure, without more limits than those laid down by Parliamentary law and by respect to people. I invite your lords not to be discouraged because they think that such an initiative might not prosper. The only ones who, at the entrance, lack all opportunity to see the light are the initiatives that are not registered. It is not necessary to reiterate that, as has been happening so far, any decision of this presidency or of the various organs that make up the House will always be supported in the favourable opinion of the Juridical Services, for this is the only way to proceed with complete solvency. Because a democracy that does not respect the law, the set of laws, cannot even be considered a full democracy. We met in a hall of sessions presided over by a window that is the work of a good and generous Welshman, to which some of us present had the honour of knowing and trying. I mean Isaac Díaz Pardo, born a hundred years ago. A multifaceted man -- artist, thinker and entrepreneur -- who had no more vital objective than Galicia's enlargement. Despite being the protagonist of a random life, the victim of repression and direct witness to barbarism unleashed after the 1936 military uprising, he was always able to rest, no matter how hard it was to overcome. It was an example of completeness, dignity and coherence. From among the councils received throughout his life he reminded Mr. Isaac that "We all have an obligation to intervene by reaching out to what we know; not to do so is cowardice. If we don't, we won't have the right to criticize and complain." We would do well, ladies and gentlemen, to apply this philosophy of life, which, if it is generally done for any time, becomes essential in the everyday eels of how many we exercise public responsibilities. Galicia, Spain, Europe and the world accuse the effects of the pandemic caused by the new coronavirus, the covid-19. A pandemic that, regardless of how long we have been controlling or eradicating it, surely has changed forever realities and habits of life that we have so little considered unchangeable. In pain over the loss of human lives, the suffering and the sequelae of those who suffered and suffered from infection and how many people and family situations have gone through, we are immersed in an economic, social and health crisis of unknown proportions to those born after the Civil War. A crisis and capital challenges that neither this parliament nor any other legislative chamber can stand apart. I have already said so — and despite the obvious repetition — that this should be the legitimacy of people, especially of the most vulnerable people, such as those who suffer in their own flesh the effects of cowardice-19 on their different manifestations, direct or sideways. In this context, ladies and gentlemen, our readiness to agree and seek broad consensus on matters of general interest to the country should be absolute. Because, although we don't always realize that, it's much more what unites us than what separates us. Because it is inherent in our condition and human values, from which we should never dissipate. I invite the ladies and gentlemen to devote at least as much effort as possible to make agreements as to scalding differences. That — you can be sure — is what citizenship calls us to shout, and it would be irresponsible not to listen to that repeated demand. I also said - and I repeat - that they buy solid and well argued speeches, inasmuch as artifice and stridence are left to any institution that aspires, as this parliament does, to represent with greater fidelity the Greeks and the Greeks that have chosen us. In a society that searches to the very least of any gesture, the exemplaryness of the people who hold public office - of course we include the Members and Members of this Chamber - becomes an inescapable requirement, both in the exercise of the responsibilities entrusted to us and in our daily private procedure. In ancient Rome, the posthumous trial of a public worker, particularly that of the emperors, could end up imposing punishments such as the damnation of memory, which involved condemnation of forgetfulness, or recognitions such as the apotheosis, which divinized the homage, for its achievements in life. Unfortunately, in contemporary politics, the first cases are more abundant than the second. To change this trend is a shared responsibility and also an imperative necessity, not to preserve the good name of one or another, but to change the course of the self-destructive spiral in which we are sometimes installed politics and politicians. We have overcome the crisis of credibility of the institutions' policy - I have certainly found it less pronounced in Galicia than in our surroundings - it demands a strong and sustained response from all: of the Members and Members, who must give themselves full every day in the exercise of the responsibilities assumed, and also of the Chamber itself, with the Presidency and the Bureau taking the lead in this choral task. On December 21, 1980, the people of Galicia approved in referendum the current Statute for the Self-Government of Galicia. With that "yes" expressed in the polls, the Greeks and the Greeks became -- some, surely, without realizing it and others, of course, excited and committed -- in part of a process of building Galician political autonomy, which has its first institution in this parliament. At this moment we will recover and strengthen the illusion and commitment of the pioneers of the German Autonomy. We need to continue our efforts to change the social image of the Galician Parliament, with the ultimate aim of getting the Greeks to know and value the work that is done here, in the institution on which Galicia's political autonomy revolves, insofar as on excessive occasions it is still perceived as far away from the street and disconnected from people's real problems. Regardless of the efforts of each of your lordships to transfer to the agenda of legislative power the true reality of the Greeks and the Greeks, the institution must continue to develop and strengthen some lines of work started in the past with reasonable success. I'm talking about the programme of guided tours in its various modalities - now unfortunately conditioned by the covid-19 -. I am talking about continuing to deepen in the mechanisms of citizen participation and transparency, in support of the visibility and integration of disability and other particularly vulnerable collectives, or of the value of this institution's art collection. I'm talking about measures with which this camera was a pioneer in the state legislatures, which is why we can and should feel legitimately proud, because once again we could open paths and become an example to continue outside our borders. It is a shared merit, especially of the Members and Members who have made it possible. This Chamber, the various services that form part of the Parliamentary Administration and each one of the people who with its work - which is more and more effective - make it possible for the Galician Parliament to function regularly for years in the field of ICT, to the point that we have achieved the full digitisation of the institution. The Galician Parliament was the first to administer these characteristics in terms of its own electronic headquarters, which in practice translates into that any citizen, and also any of his lordships, can present all kinds of documentation in a remote way without needing to use a single paper. This fact, together with the continuous updating of technical equipment, allowed the entire parliamentary administration to function in teleworking mode and in a fully satisfactory way during the confinement decreed as a result of the curfew-19. The accumulated experience, the continuing capacity to overcome our technicians and the commitment of this presidency to the extension of ICT will make digitisation, in its various uses, a dominant place among the objectives for this parliamentary mandate. Our bet on open doors must be two-way: that the Greeks and the Greeks come physically or virtually to Parliament, but also that Parliament, through its Members and Members, will be present at any point in the country. But it must, in time, be a technological bet that translates into a virtual open door, so that any resident in any of our 300 municipalities feels and perceives Parliament, and each of its seventy-five Members and Members, as an institution close to their service, also the click. We're talking about virtual accessibility, but also about physical accessibility to these dependencies, accessibility that will have to be significantly improved by the works that will soon be involved in this building to remove certain barriers that, perhaps, were previously imperceptible, but that in our days are unacceptable to a space of these characteristics. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not to be remembered that if Galicia currently has one of the most advanced self-governments in Europe, like the other communities in Spain, this is a direct consequence of the formalised and democratically referenced constitutional covenant at its time. Because - and it is worth recalling at the risk of disemorshipment - the current Spanish Constitution was passed by 87% in favour. Spain and Galicia have lived since that period the greatest period of stability, growth and consolidation of the well-being of our history. As a doctor and as a member of a family of long health tradition, I remember perfectly how Galicia was four decades ago, and very particularly the terrible living conditions of our people. In these more than forty years, and despite the obvious difficulties of the present, Galicia and Spain have radically changed, ever better, to consolidate an advanced parliamentary democracy and a reasonable state of well-being, which we must all strive to perfect. This advance is a direct consequence and should not cost us to admit that it was thanks to the constitutional covenant forged in the context of a transition to model democracy and with various architects: civil society, which demanded a change of regime; politicians of one sign and another, who pushed in the same direction; social agents, the media and the head of state, who piloted the process. Among them all were able to disassemble that omnimon and return national sovereignty to the Spanish people through the Constitution. But in the same way that this process has successfully completed, and so must it be recognized, its protagonists, both in politics, in civil society, in institutions, have also made mistakes. In a constitutional and legal state, which enshrines the separation of powers, judge, if any, it is neither and must be the competence of politicians. Let's respect and abide by the decisions of justice, all of us -- we share them or not -- and we focus on the responsibility that citizenship has given us: building and rebuilding a society and economy that is more needed than ever before -- of power, energy and collaboration from all of us. We have contributed, everyone from their competences and possibilities, to restoring, consolidating and accentuateing the climate of stability, freedom, growth and well-being of what we have enjoyed in recent decades, an urgent task, a challenge which everyone has faced, also since and for Galicia, also from this parliament. It is urgent, with everyone's invitation, to restore the social credit of the institutions from individual behaviours characterized by exemplaryness, transparency and honesty, with a scrupulously regard to the normative framework of what we provide. It is fair, in a day like this, to recall the path begun by the Generation We, of which we celebrate this year's first centenary. In a context of difficulties, people like Otero Pedrayo, Risco, Cuevillas, Losada Diéguez or Castelao, among others, were able to open a horizon of hope and universality for Galicia, its culture and its people, as did the Brotherhood of Speech or the Seminary of Galician Studies. Even though his work was cut short suddenly, and his architects suffered in their own flesh the effects of barbarism, with the passage of time, the seed of work and the example of those "good and generous" Greeks, they germinated and yielded fruit. We take care of and enlarge every day the fruits of that work is the obligation of all, especially of those present here. Ladies and gentlemen, in just one year, this parliament will celebrate four decades of life. In the 40 years since that faraway 19 December 1981 when the House held its first constitutive session in the Xelmírez palace, Galicia was growing in political autonomy, welfare, public services, development opportunities and economic magnitudes. It's obvious that not all the time has been better, but that's why we must stop remembering the legacy of those who preceded us in the noble task of equipping Galicia of its own self-government institutions, as well as the development and consolidation of them. I would like to invite your lordships to look back to, to the extent possible, to inspire us in the forms and at the bottom of that first Parliament in Galicia, where the precarious means - to the point of meeting in a borrowed room - were often asked to scrupulously with regard to forms, a careful oratory and a constant search for consensus, as it was accredited with the approval, unanimously, of much of the legislative corpus on which our self-government was set in motion. In the face of the immense challenges that we face, I hope that each one of us here will put as much of it as possible so that we will always be able to anticipate, under any circumstances, the interests of Galicia and the Greeks. I hope that each of the Members and Members of this House will be remembered, over time and for their own merits, as a good and generous Welshman. So be it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I therefore declare open the XI legislate of the Galician Parliament and invite all Members standing to listen to the German anthem. Thank you very much. [[It sounds like Galician anthem in a recording of a choral version with the musical accompaniment of an organ.]] [[Applause]] Ends the session. Good morning to all and to all.
