ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u1	Good morning. We resume the session with the sixth item on the agenda, questions for the oral response of the President of the Union. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Gonzalo Caballero Miguez, of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists on measures taken by the Government of Greece to protect women during the pandemic
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u2	Mr. Knight, whenever you like.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, International Day of the Elimination of Violence against Women, of male violence, we must bear in mind in this Parliamentary House a matter of state, country, Galicia, to defend the Galician against any risk. But have it right, Mr. Feijóo, to start this question by asking you to correct the decision of the Galician board to open a file to the Xinecology chief at the Vienna Hospital, in public services. A year ago, a massive mobilization in Galicia made you correct the time to eliminate a parish man who was fundamental to Verín, to so many women who wanted to give birth in their parish manhood, and a year later you show the worst face of the People's Party, that of reprisals, that of purges. [[Applause]] Rectify, Mr. Feijóo, make a monument to the defenders of public health and do not try to purge a gynaecologist who is a defence of public health for all of Galicia. [[Applause]] I also wanted to tell you that today, on the International Day of the Elimination of Machist Violence, there are 3,733 active cases of male violence in Galicia. There are 4,3 % active cases more than a year ago. From January to September, the number of calls increased to 016 and the number of complaints decreased. We wanted to ask you, Mr. Feijó: How do you explain it? How do you rate this situation from the Government of United States? Are you worried about the stage? What are you taking and are you going to take? I assure you that the President of the Board is fully aware of the fight against violence, but not only is it about maintaining a speech position, it is about applying facts, policies, and developing all measures. Here, in Galicia, you can do much better and much better, and we want to ask the President of the Union, because it's a demand from our country and it's an obligation for those who rule us. Because when women have a problem with male violence, the main resource they have to have next to them is the information centres for women, which protect them. I'm told by all the equal specialists that in Galicia there are still 136 municipalities that don't have an information center for women. I'm told that when you got to Galician Council, there were 76 CISGs, and a decade later, 82. Are these correct data, Mr. Feijóo? You've done for a decade less than a decade of new CIMs and you've got a lot of noises and 136 municipalities without those accesses. How many information centers are you going to put into operation with the new budgets for 2021? We want to ask you in those budgets to bet on equality. Why today are the budgets presented by the Galician Union for equality less important than the 2009 budgets when you arrive in front of the Galician Union, and now, in addition, when you receive 8 million euros from the State Pact? And I wanted to ask you, how do you manage, which part of the State Covenant against Gender Violence funds directly manages Galician Union? We want to ask you, Mr Feijóo, to make an effort to improve the protective shield of women who suffer from masculine violence, which is a cause for all and of all, and also to make that effort when we see that there is inaction, insufficiency and weakness in the policies that can be carried out since the Government of the United States of Galicia. For women, for all of us, for all of us, let us make a protective shield with the collaboration of all, and in front of him I ask you to deal with this battle against macho violence, Mr. Feijóo. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u4	Thank you, Mr. Knight. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is indeed the International Day of the Elimination of Violence against Women, and I would like to begin by sending a widespread condolences from all parliamentary groups to all women killed by their batterers in Spain and Galicia, to all children killed as a result of male violence and, of course, to all orphans and orphans who are victims of male violence. I would also like to remember in a very special way two women, the two women killed in Galicia this year 2020, specifically in Lugo, in January and February: Manuela, in Pastory, and Clara, in the city of Lugo. Unfortunately, the problem of male violence is not a question of this last decade, it's not a question that affects only Galicia or Spain. And that's why we can't just keep working without any kind of crack and no kind of prejudice about this fence. This year, not only did the Galician Union keep but it reinforced all the infrastructure for women victims of violence. Aware that the state of alarm decreed by the Central Government would activate possible macho attitudes, the Board of Trustees immediately, on 20 March, established a specific system to strengthen all its infrastructures and services. And indeed, not only have they been strengthened, not only have they kept operational, but they have increased: the Legal Care and Advice Service has increased; the economic aid that was being processed through the Internet and electronic headquarters has been increased; emergency centres have been kept open; a new resource has been opened in Lugo, specifically in Chantada; all municipal reception centres, NGOs, social institutions, have continued to open; we have launched alternative resources - shelters, hotels, pensions -; we have also made an agreement with taxis to transfer to any female victim of male violence; we have expanded the Rent Bonus, making it free of charge all these months; and we have launched a major institutional campaign. Indeed, we have received requests for help, which, of course, we have listened to, and the consultations have increased by 35%, and 16% of the information to the CIMs. By the way, Mr. Caballero, I'm surprised you don't know that all the information centers of attention to the woman requesting the councils are created and I'm surprised that socialist councils like Ponte Caldelas's close. You come here, it seems, without that information. Economic aid increased by 27.5% during the alarm state, from 396 to 505. I'm surprised you don't even know the letter or the budget numbers. The budget has been increased since 2009 - if you want to make the budget read correctly - between 100% and 159%. In 2009, no chapter I, 13 million; in year 2021, 27.6. And if you want to take the conciliation policies in 2009, 54 million; in 2021, 141%. I am surprised, Your Honor, that you bring this question with a certain tendency of reason of struggle between Government and opposition; don't count on us for this. The more progress is made and the more we are able to build consensus, the more effective it will be, and that's why we focus on those consensus. It would do a great public service if instead of shooting I recognized that the Board not only expanded services but it continued to expand complaints mechanisms, reception centers, aid, awareness campaigns... negationism is the best ally of abusers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u7	And there are two types of negationism: those who deny gender-based violence by system and those who deny that there are other parties more than their own taking action. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, you are not referring to negationism, nor to the appropriation of gender-based violence policies. We'll all move forward more together and we'll all serve this cause better together. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u8	Thank you, President. Replica, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u9	Mr. Feijóo, your written speech is unacceptable. What you've just done in this House by talking about negationism to a political opposition party that has a clear commitment to the fight against masculine violence and which has the hands of the Government of the Union to work on their game of confusing everything, to confuse those we defend women and the fight against masculine violence, to those who compromise, to those who deny the masculine violence, which you are, is a failure to respect this international day. [[Applause]] You bring a speech out of place, Mr Feijóo, out of respect for the House and these Members when you accuse of something no one accuses you of, when you here today confirm that for ten years of government they have simply moved from 76 information centres to 82 women. And if you want to work against masculine violence and for women, commit yourself to politics, bet on public services in the whole territory, because where there is no end to women in worse conditions, which is what happens when you want to eliminate the service of help to the extraordinary home, which will end up being in the hands of women, and what happens when you want to close the godfather of Verin, and you continue now without going back when you want to do a purge to that gynecologist who was the reference to defend a parrot in a battle you lost. [[Applause]] Mr. Feijó, don't you come to tension this political chamber with your speeches out of place and out of time. We ask you what the opposition has to ask you to correct your weaknesses and errors and to do better, which is what you want. Because you don't know, for example, Mr Feijóo, that with data from the third quarter of this year, in Galicia there are more men busy at this time than at the beginning of the year, but there are fewer women employed than at the beginning of the year? Is there not therefore also a gap in the protection of women in all areas of protection, in the protection of their integrity, in the protection of their employment, in the protection of their services, in the protection of their rights? You see, today we find a new one in a newspaper in La Voz de Galicia, which is very revealing: "Vitimates of macho violence have to wait up to twelve days for a square in a foster home." This is the reality of the country, the rest is the botafumaire, and I don't want to talk constructively about the problems that exist in Galicia, the ones that need to be solved. Be aware of being President of Galicia, stop marking a tension that no one brings to this House by accusing you of what they are and allowing you to work against masculine violence with a constructive speech. He'll always have the Galician Socialist Party in the feminist cause, in the cause of women's defense, and also to show him the weaknesses and mistakes you have in front of the Government of Galicia. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u10	Thank you, Mr. Knight. For the closing of this question, the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u11	I see you continue, Mr. Knight, pointing to negationism. It's not only that of those political parties that deny gender-based violence, it's also that of those political parties that deny others their commitment to gender-based violence. So after you make a pact and sign a pact in this House and another state pact and after you fulfill every one of the commitments of that state pact, what do you come here to stand up to? Look, Your Honor, stop confusing yourself, because citizens are much smarter than you think. You've been intoxicating continuously and continuously over the past few months - and I see that they continue - public health in Verín. The ones in Verin spoke clearly: 48.5% of the poisons thought that this party deserved to rule and only 21% thought that you deserved to rule. Stop poisoning yourself and try to do something about the country. Look, I'm not here to assume that the first equality law was passed in a People's Party government; I'm not here to assume that the first action plan against gender-based violence in 2002 was approved by a People's Party government. I don't come here to say that since 2013 this autonomous community is the only one in Spain who is always in all trials when there is a death-induced violence to defend women who can no longer defend themselves because they were simply murdered by their abusers. We are of the few autonomous communities that we keep permanently open to economic aid for women and their children. More than 5,000 economic aid is giving Galician Union. Now you try to talk about unemployment and I don't know how many things, but can you assume employment policies? Yeah? [[Mr. Knight Miguez seat.]] Because if the Socialist Party can assume employment policies, it can already assume what it wants. [[Mr. Knight Miguez does gestures from his seat.]] Look, the employment rate of women in Galicia is at 3.2 points above the average employment rate in Spain. And the unemployment rate is almost three points below Spain's unemployment rate. And in the unemployment in Galicia, ladies and gentlemen, there are 22,000 women less unemployed than when we arrived at the government in 2009. Women's Social Security affiliations marked the historical record of 500,000 in July, and, despite the crisis, ladies and gentlemen, we're in 493,000 affiliated to Social Security. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have created an equal and employment council. No doubt, employment is the key to freedom, and freedom is the key to any kind of submission to a abusive man or a abusive couple. I just gave the budget data. When we got to the government there were 27 million euros and now there are 141 million euros. But do you understand these figures? There's another 159% and it comes here saying that we cut equality policies, and not even knowing that women's information centres are the competence of the Town Councils Ignore the budget, ignore competences and ignore politics, Your Honor. [[Murmurs.]] But what else does he have? You will continue to stand up to this negationism, the negationism of thinking that the only equality policies correspond to the Socialist Party and that the rest of us are not up to the Socialist Party. Look, Mr. Knight, be a little less proud and speak with a little more sense and with responsibility about this social scourge that women are suffering. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to inform and advise women, we will continue to educate them in schools, we will continue to protect and help women who need them, we will continue to encourage them to report unlimitedly to any batterer, both physically and psychologically.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u12	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u13	And we will continue to say that no, clearly not, that Galicia is not a place where a woman can be mistreated and that we are all in favour of not—you included, despite her attitude. Ladies and gentlemen, this cry of "no" will be more useful the more we give it together and the more we do it together. Let us continue to reach consensus and covenants. We, when we come to a pact, meet. You, gentlemen, propose agreements and then they are not even able to keep them! Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u14	Thank you, President. Da Ana Belén's question Pontón Mondelo, from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the assessment made by the Government of the evolution of the health, social and economic crisis generated by the covid-19 in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u15	You have the floor to Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u16	Thank you very much. Mr. Feijóo, ladies and gentlemen, I want my first words to be to tell the women of this country that there is an alternative to violence against the masquerade and that we have a memory in this House for all the victims, that what they don't want are completely useless refractors but rather want solutions. Because it's obvious that masculine violence continues to beat and violence women's right to be free, which follows masculine violence there and that, to fight it, what we need is more resources. [[Applause]] And we're still in time. Let's say 1% of the budget fighting a violence that's attacking women for the mere fact of stamping, so that we never have to keep minutes of silence and never have to read headlines like the ones that yesterday haunted our hearts on the cover of a newspaper: "A 3-year-old boy confronts his father when he beats his mother at Vigo." Never more headlines like this! And for that, more resources are needed against macho violence. [[Applause]] With regard to the pandemic, Mr. Feijóo, I have to tell you that it is tremendously unfair and useless that the response of your Government at this moment is a reform of the Health Act which aims to monitor, punish and fine the Welsh and the Welsh. This is how the President of the Union thanks the people of this country for the sacrifice and effort they have made over these months, treating them as if they were suspicious of those who must be watched, punished, forced to be vaccinated under fines and those who must be cut off rights and freedoms without legal guarantees. You present a law of 53 sheets without a single measure to improve the fight against cowardice from the health field and in which 71 times the word "sanction" appears. And all this in a health law, in a bill that will, by the way, have to be rectified even before it is debated in this House, because I imagine, Mr. Feijóo, that he will go back in that attempt to impose compulsory vaccination. Mr. Feijó, you, when you correct, you're right. That's why we're asking you to remove that juridical reform of the Health Act and start working so as not to repeat the same mistakes for the third time in this pandemic. The goal cannot be reduced by saving Christmas, the goal is to contain the third wave of the virus until the vaccine reaches the population as a whole. That's why since BNG we've been offering collaboration with very specific proposals again. The first is that we need to strengthen public health, starting with primary care, which is still having in their budgets for the year 2021, 100 million euros less than twelve years ago. It's impossible for you to answer a pandemic. Secondly, increase the number of trackers to control the germs. Third, put in place a contingency plan for the covid vaccine. We've seen that the influenza vaccination campaign was a general essay of what that vaccine might be, and here it was a fiasco; therefore plan and anticipate. Fourthly, we ask you to schedule an immediate mass crowage in all the municipalities that are subjected to perimeter closures. And finally, he blinds senior residences with public intervention until there's an effective vaccine. Mr. Feijóo, the Greeks and the Greeks don't need you to treat them as suspects to watch, punish and fine. What they need is a government that anticipates and gives solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Pontón, when you ruled, there was 160% less budget for equality. I suppose at least that's what you recognized. Your Honor, you come here against the Public Health Act. It is clear what the BNG proposal is. Do you think it's wrong, Mrs. Pontón, that we punish the people who violate quarantine and infect the others? Do you think it's wrong that we sanction people who don't wander away after they've been confirmed to be infected with an infectious disease? What are we accused of, Mrs. Pontón? Do you accuse us of preserving the life and health of the Greeks? Do you think that sanctioning those who violate isolation or quarantine is inappropriate for a responsible government? Mrs. Pontón, how can you contradict yourself so much in such a short time? Do you know what your question proves? That there are difficulties sometimes to take the nationalists' proposals seriously. You were raised weeks ago as the defender of confinement, of general confinement, that people can't go out to the streets or go to work or study. And now you come here saying that we have a law that punishes people who do not do. So what did you guys want with a generalized confinement? Are those the nationalist proposals, Mrs. Pontón? What are we left with? Do you have any proposals that would be to talk about the pandemic, or simply to oppose the Government, to oppose the Government simply because it is the People's Party of Galicia? But, Mrs Pontón, a little bit about epidemiologists, microbiologists, the Clinical Committee! A little about the country's public health! You're filling up the Journal of Sessions with glorious performances against compliance with a public health law in a pandemic with an infectious disease and you come here, in addition, proposing the generalized confinement of the population. But can you really do more ridicule in such a short time? Mrs. Pontón, with all due respect, we will continue to work. Look, the number of cases in Galicia since November 7 has dropped by 19.6%; the number of hospitalizations, by 10% I think we're trying to contain the pandemic. And for now, we've got it. We're trying to get her down too. And for now, there's clear evidence that it's coming down. That's why, Mrs. Pontón, we've kept our commitment to continue working against wind and tide and any kind of plot as regrettable as we've just heard. Mrs. Pontón, are you against demanding that an infected person keep himself at home during the quarantine? Are you against, ultimately, preserving the health of the Greeks and the Greeks? Look, we don't agree to being better than others, we don't even agree to being better than before the measures were taken, because there are still some Greeks who suffer, because there are still some Greeks who can't go to work in the hospitality sector — and that's why we made the most ambitious proposal from all over Spain for the hospitality sector.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u19	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u20	That's why I'd like to, Mrs. Pontón, if you don't help, at least not toxic. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u21	Thank you, President. Mrs. Pontón's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u22	Mr. Feijóo, I come here to speak in favour of the Greeks and the Greeks and, of course, with all seriousness and all rigour. I think it's all right that you come here and say continuously that we don't know what we're talking about. It's a lack of respect for all the Greeks and the Greeks, for this House and for the role we have to do as opposition. [[Applause]] And, look, I'm going to explain to you what's wrong with us. What's wrong with us is that you present a reform of the Health Act which in 53 sheets does not have a single measure to improve public health but which repeats up to 71 times the word "sanction." Do you really believe that the problem with the virus is that the Welsh and the Galician people do not fully comply and that they have to be watched and punished? Are you really telling the people of this country — who are having exemplary behavior — that the problem is that they don't meet the quarantine? Is that the answer you have to give? What you're doing is circumventing your responsibilities. [[Murmurs.]] And, look, Mr. Feijóo, look, who makes the ridiculous you will be, who presents this Health Act to us in theory as a great solution but then has the cowardice of not even taking it to the board of directors. And he doesn't because he wants to circumvent judicial controls, because he knows his standard would suspend that test, because there's a lot of doubts about what you put there. [[Applause]] And what is wrong — which I particularly find bad — is that the president of the board does not assume his responsibilities and that he intends to tell society that this depends solely on individual behavior and that the board has no responsibility in controlling the pandemic. Of course I do! What bothers you is that we are in this House putting our finger on the scourge of the breaches of your government. And, look, to fight against the pandemic, the Greeks and the Greeks are giving an example of effort and compliance. Who's missing is the Government. And you know why? Because they didn't reinforce primary care with more means, because they didn't hire enough trackers, because they weren't prepared to make massive seizures to the whole population, because they haven't even even planned, Mr. Feijóo, as the vaccine will be launched, a contingency plan that will ensure that it will be able to be distributed agilely and that the flu fiasco will not be repeated, or that it won't be able to protect older people in residences, Mr. Feijóo. That's the debate we came here today. It's good that, when we came to this House to talk seriously about the vault, the only answer you give us is to give us a slap when we're holding hands with proposals.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u23	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u24	We are tending our hand with concrete proposals to help this country get out of the worst crisis. Not even so, Mr. Feijóo, has the decency to answer why not a great pact for us to target 1 out of 100 euros to fight a violence that every day strikes, mistreats and conditions women's right to be free. And we do it constructively. Let us make this Parliament something useful in this pandemic and stop coming here to tackle the political debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Close this question by Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u26	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, Galicia is the only autonomous community that is legislating specifically to manage this and any other pandemic that may occur in the coming decades; the only, the only, autonomous community in Spain. We can make communications orders, some published in the Official Journal of Galicia, and after each one did what he could; that is, it's recommended, and then each autonomous community does what it wants. We want to sanction this law in the Galician Parliament, and that is what we are accused of. We are accused that this law is rapidly being passed so that it can be in force in February, when we would already take almost a year of pandemic, because the Government of Spain — which you support — has systematically refused to legislate to order citizens' rights and not states of continuous and constant coverage. It's the first time I see a nationalist group in favor of the state of alarm decreed at the Congress of Deputies and not in favor of an organic law to regulate rights during a pandemic. [[Applause]] Your Honor, you say we're not talking about measures. It's the only law in Spain that will establish that a person infected with coronavirus has a legal obligation to stay at home for ten days. It's the only law issued from a parliament that's going to say clearly and decisively that a person close to a positive has to be quarantined for fourteen days at home. It's the only law that establishes guarantees, rights and obligations, because the rest is simply solved with alarm states and with reported commands. That's your way of defending the rights of the Greeks, do you have orders from the Ministry of Health? Or do the rights of the Greeks defend themselves and become concrete in the Galician Parliament by means of laws voted in the country's Parliament? Look, Mrs. Pontón, are there no measures in the law? If it's all action! What we mean, Your Honor, is that, since most of the measures are done, minorities must also do them. And that's why, when you tell me that we have to increase the primary care budget, I say, but is there ever more staff, more funds and more public health budget than since we've been honoring the votes of Galicia and ruling the country? Four thousand six hundred million euros, Your Honor!, the largest and most ambitious budget of history in forty years of the country's autonomy in health. [[Applause]] Come here and talk about the flu vaccine. 200,000 were vaccinated, they were vaccinated more today than in any other influenza vaccination campaign in the country's history, 200,000!; 38% more yellows vaccinated against the flu today than they had ever done at this time in the country. And you're also criticising that more Greek people are vaccinated, more risk groups. Look, Your Honor, you're wrong, the Welsh health care, with the effort of your professionals, you're responding, most of the Greeks are responding, the education system is responding, the social protection system is responding, and the Greek economy is responding better than the average of the Spanish economy. So, Your Honor, in the residences we will continue to do the CRPs, saliva CRPs and nasopharynx CRPs, and that's why we bought 3 million antigen tests to keep running more intensively and more frequently in the residences and anywhere else they need it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u27	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u28	And that's why, Your Honor, we will continue to support all those who believe that we are doing a work, among all the Greeks, reasonable. Look, we have half of the UCI-occupied beds that the average of Spain - 13% in Galicia and almost 30% in Spain - and half of the hospital beds that the average of Spain - 6% in Galicia - 13% in the average of Spain. One thing doctors and health professionals will do well. Look, in your opinion, the Union is always wrong...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u29	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u30	...and the Committee of Experts, too. And, I wonder, could you tell me which is the committee of experts on the Nationalist Block in Galicia? Look, Your Honor, I'm saying this because, perhaps, Mr. Sánchez's Government would need you; I'd need the BNG experts to advise Mr. Sánchez's Government. And I'm also saying that because it's a shame that the World Health Organization doesn't contain experts from the Galician Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u31	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u32	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u33	Thank you. We continue with the agenda, proposals not the law. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Paula Prado del Río and 13 other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government and the actions to be carried out to prevent deprotection and support the least orphaned persons for gender violence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u34	There is an amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u35	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u36	Very good morning. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today, November 25, we commemorate the International Day for the Elimination of All Violence against Women. But for us it is one more day, it is a more work day to achieve full equality; every day of the year we must strive to eradicate violence against women. And we've been in Galicia for many years, over thirty years, working and implementing measures of awareness, prevention, care and eradication of gender-based violence. The first political criticisms about the insufficiency of budgets in the field of equality are neither this year nor last year, nor the previous year, since 1992. And you know why? Because in January 1991 President Fraga's Government — now alarmed by some prominent nationalists — launched and created the Galego Service for the Promotion of Equality of Man and Women. And the creation of this organism was not assumed by good degrees on the left, which even came to say that the sensitivity of the People's Party to the feminist demands of gender equality had as its objective the need to compete with the left by female vote. But the truth is that reality has shown that the impeccable trajectory of public policies focused on women's interests has grown year after year. For example, since the creation of the first five information centres for women in 1995 by the Government of the People's Party, we are in 82; 83 in a few days, because the Town Hall of the Perero de Aguiar — governed by the People's Party — has a political will to set up an information centre for women. Here we are talking today about information centres for women, and I have to remember that they are municipal competence, and as municipal competence municipal governments have the political sensibility of creating them or closing them, as did Ponte Caldelas. In addition to Ponte Caldelas, ruled by the Socialist Party, he has three judgments against him. Why? Because they show that the staff is municipal. Another thing is that the Galician Union finances, subsidizes and helps those CIMs, which, by the way, in many of them — and I don't look at anyone — don't meet the labor demands of their staff. And that's why the Galician Union could even reduce the subsidy, the help and the approaches it makes, and it didn't. And there they are to see all the memories of the information centres to the woman and also the working conditions in which the staff of the information centres to the woman, which, by the way, do not depend on the Council of Galicia, I insist, depend on the political will of all the municipalities. The first equality plans were also held in 1992 in 1994, in 1995, in 1998, in 2001, until today: the Action Plan against Gender Violence, 2002-2005; the Equality Act of 2004, which you did not support - the BNG abstained and the Socialist Party voted against -. But we do support the laws that were promoted by the Bipartite, both the integral of gender-based violence in 2007 and that of equality at work. Or the most recent, 2016, to make the game intended to meet the payment of direct aid to victims, which did not count on the Socialist Party's favourable vote either. All of these were steps we took to incorporate resources and solutions to care for women, to achieve real equality. But it's not all done, there's still action to be taken and to improve. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are bringing to this plenary an initiative to prevent deprotection and support the least-orphaned people for gender-based violence. The past legislation we have reached important agreements in this House, we have succeeded in consensualizing a document with approaches to the Autonomous Community to incorporate the State Covenant against Gender Violence. We were four political forces — logo five — with very different political sensibilities, but we were able to agree; and Galicia was the only community in Spain that brought this State Pact closer by consensus from all political forces represented in this House. The past legislation, ladies and gentlemen, on equality, we have been able to make politics a little useful, to incorporate policy into the resource network against gender-based violence in Galicia. I hope that this legislation will continue along the same path and that we can make politics something useful for women, for the interests of women, and not for the partisan interests of each of the political formations that we have today representing in this House. The State Covenant, which was agreed by all political forces — not signed by all; by the way, the only one who didn't sign it today is the one that runs the Ministry of Equality; things you will see, ladies and gentlemen — was also signed by the autonomous communities on December 27, 2017. Specific measures for the intensification of assistance and the protection of minors will be included in axis four. And this assistance and protection of minors from their recognition as direct victims, the need to expand and improve measures aimed at their assistance and protection, the implementation of new benefits in cases of orphanages as a result of gender violence, the review of civilian measures relating to the custody of minors, the encouragement of reinforcement actions in the educational field, and the encouragement of specialization of family meeting points for cases related to gender violence. What did the Galician Union do in the field of its powers of social assistance to victims? For on January 2, 2019, the Vice President of the Union signed an agreement with the College of Administrative Managers of Galicia, with the College of Social Graduates, with Agaxen, with the College of Social Educators and Educators of Galicia, to accompany and advise in the management of administrative procedures and in the socio-educational support needed by the children and children orphaned by the fatal victims of gender violence in Galicia. And since 2009, the General Secretariat of Equality has also provided economic aid and compensation to children under 30 years of age who are victims of gender violence. What did the state have to do? Well, modify the state legislation, but the amendment made in Law 3/2019 of 1 March, of improvement in the situation of orphaned children and children of victims of gender-based violence and other forms of violence against women, leaves orphans and orphans out when the perpetrator of death is another man different from his father and when his progenitor is unable to take care and protection of his children and daughters. I'm talking about presidents or I'm talking about unemployed people without entitlement to benefit, for example. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are now bringing this initiative to debate this House. We want the Galician Union to go to the Government of Spain to improve the provision of orphanages because of gender violence. The Government of Spain has to make the necessary legislative amendment to eliminate the situation of deprotection in which orphans and orphans are still found for gender violence when their mother was not a contributor to Social Security, or did not meet the minimum requirements, or the author of death was another man different from her father, and her progenitor — as I said before — is not in a position to take care of and protect children, because, as I said, that change made in 2019 was not enough. We've also talked about insufficient resources to pay attention to the victims this morning. I believe that the attention to the victims and the attention to their sons and daughters is in the hands of all administrations. It's in the hands of the administration closest to the citizen, which are the Town Councils, which is the entrance door of any citizen, but of the victims above all. And we have a very important tool that is the information centers to the woman, which, by the way, were only at risk of closure when you ruled, at the time of the Bipartite. I remind you of those R & B offices that wanted to launch -- and the ladies of the Nationalist Block Galego know what I'm talking about -- in municipalities where there was also CIM, trying to double a service and not spread it throughout the community. Because if the intention was to spread it, they would spread it for many more municipalities and not just those. And it's also attempted the comarcaalization of information centres to the woman. It was said here today that there were a hundred and I don't know how many municipalities. Man, I don't know... there are municipalities that have 400 inhabitants. I don't know if the Socialist Party wants to put a CIM there. We can talk about comarcallizing, talking about comarcallized services. Then they'll find us. But that's a municipal will, and that comarcalization has already begun. Tell the story. Well, today what brings us here is this fundamental question for orphans and orphans who are victims of gender-based violence, because they too are victims. I hope to count on your support because I believe that adding consensus is how it progresses in the fight against gender-based violence and the protection of victims. And, I insist, let us make politics something useful, a useful resource to incorporate into the resource network against gender-based violence. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u37	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado del Río. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor to Mrs Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u38	Good morning to all and to all. I'm a little puzzled, Mrs. Prado. I'm not saying a little bit, but very much. The truth is, in the light of the presentation of our amendment and of the Galician Nationalist Block itself, we understood that you would make some modification or self-amendment. And I'll explain why. Of course, yes, we also came here constructively. We understand that not like you, that you don't seem to come here constructively. We have seen in a constructive spirit, understanding that in the fight against macho violence we will of course be all the groups present in this House agree. In that I have no doubt, absolutely no doubt. Where we doubt it is best at will or, of course, at bluntness. But the truth is we're here today surprised by this non-law proposition, most surprising. We don't understand it, we don't understand it, we really don't understand it. Besides, we're surprised and perplexed. And I'll tell you why. The first point of its resolution, which today, on this stage, has changed — I say, well, it has changed it by the amendment that the BNG presented — without its exhibition part says exactly... please, I tell you that, please, you can read it again... because now I explain to you, wait a moment that I have exactly the whole story of the facts, and I think we have them quite clear. The first point of its resolution is to urge the Council of Galicia to request the Government of the State to amend the laws necessary to eliminate the situation of deprotection in which orphans and orphans are found for gender violence when their mother was not a contributor to Social Security or did not meet the minimum requirements for access to economic benefits, since — I see, it is literal! — the last amendment made does not cover these situations. That's the resolution, point 1, that we have to come here today to the House and approve. But have you really read Law 3/2019, of 1 March, of improving the situation of orphaned children and children of victims of gender-based violence and other forms of violence against women? No, they didn't read the law, they didn't read the law, I'll tell them. It's amazing! What they read was a newspaper -- and I can also tell them until they read -- a paper at the beginning of October, which they read badly. That paper, indeed, does not tell exactly how well those facts are. [[Applause]] And you go and you just take what doesn't tell the facts well and you come here to present a non-law proposition based on information that appears wrong in a media -- by the way, it's important, and that's not the ABC, I have to say, too. [[Murmurs.]] Of course, we are concerned that you come here without knowing a law, a law — I have to tell you — which has been approved unanimously. The processing was unanimously in Congress, came to the Senate, and you've even improved that law with three amendments. He arrived again at Congress and approved unanimously. That law has been passed unanimously, it doesn't make any sense that you... of course, denotes a great ignorance! And now I'm gonna start telling you why. They'll understand perfectly well. And, after my explanation, I hope you will contemplate the possibility of withdrawing your proposal, for in the second point it doesn't seem to be too committed either. But, well, we know there's an amendment to the Galician Nationalist Block on the first point. Let's see what they're trying to do. Look, Law 3/2019, of 1 March, of improvement of the orphanage pension for sons and daughters of victims of gender-based violence and other forms of gender-based violence against women, put in place precisely, precisely! a new non-contributory benefit for those orphans and orphans. Precisely what you say you haven't done is exactly why that law has been changed. I mean, the benefit now is no longer dependent on the mother murdered being on social security. [[Applause]] Now, if you want, you can read your proposal again. Well, they don't have time, but I also ate them right at the end of the defense of this LNP, please read the law; or, at least, that part. And that's not all, it's not just that mothers don't have to have anything to pay. It's that law increases from 55% to 75% the regulatory base, the same as absolute orphans and orphans. The aid thus passed from the minimum at that time — which was about an average of 150 euros that would charge an orphan — to 600 euros in case the mother did not charge and an average of 800 euros if there was a quote. Moreover, the norm has a retroactive character, not like its aids, that it speaks of in point 2 — the help of the Galician Union — that these do not have any retroactive character — by the way, before it said "2009" and is 2019, they have them since 2019. The rule has a retroactive character, so that all the children and daughters of women killed by masculine violence since 2004 — which was when the comprehensive law against gender-based violence was passed — will receive benefits until they reach 21 years of age. So what happened? For the intolerable situations of institutional abandonment have been brought to an end by these children. That's what that law did, and you now bring here a bill that denotes absolute ignorance. We're worried. We're worried that the party in the government didn't read that law or knew it. We're deeply concerned about that. Precisely, as I say, that amendment of the law has been made to get these victims of macho violence — which are the children and children of these women killed by macho violence — a non-contributory pension that guarantees them a decent survival. Why? Because many of the times these mothers were very young — in fact, tomorrow we'll have the secretary-general to realize the gender-based violence and we'll see that more and more young women are suffering from gender-based violence in our country, and being murdered being very young, even though they were working, they didn't have time to contribute, to quote what was required of them. But besides, it's also true that unfortunately there are many murdered women who weren't working. I thank you very much, Mrs Prado, for bringing this proposal here to remember that it was the PSOE and not the PP, and not the PP, who led the fight against gender-based violence in this country. [[Applause]] In 2004 we adopted the Law on comprehensive protection measures against gender violence. In 2015 we promoted the social, political and institutional pact against male violence. Then you're going to a riot. And I think it's very good, it's very good that we all take advantage of it. Because I also think politics is a question that's useful for building, and it's very good that you go after us. And already in the Government we have, of course, converted the fight against these violences — and I think it is very clear that we continue to do so — into the central axis of the executive's action, greatly increasing the budgetary resources for that fight against violence, or with the real decree of urgent means of developing that state pact. There was a state pact, but it was not yet developed. And on the issue that affects us today, protecting orphans and orphans, I have to tell you that it was approved in 2019, but the PSOE in Congress has already been presenting various non-law proposals since 2016 to ensure, in order to try to ensure, this coverage for the children and daughters of murdered women. He finally came up with a bill in Congress driven by my party. I, of course, hope that, after our intervention, which sets out its tremendous and enormous clumsiness — and, if I may, excuse me, but it is that, indeed, we remain absolutely astonished — they should well withdraw this proposal — or at least the first point —. Because, as I said, besides the curious thing about this matter, you approved it unanimously. We don't understand. They approved it unanimously and improved this initiative. So, either there's no fluid dialogue between the Galician People's Group and the State People's Group, or we don't understand it. The minimum would be to give a call to his comrades and colleagues in Madrid so he could actually tell them what happened to that change. And, with regard to our amendment, we obviously want to delete point 1. It's obvious, because we couldn't vote this at all. That would be ridiculous. In fact, we would be ill from this Parliament. I don't know what image we're going to give if at the end of Galician union the Government of the State is going to do something that already exists. And I also think it would certainly be humiliating for the People's Group there. And with regard to point 2, what we do is to urge the Greek Government not only to maintain — because you're talking about "keeping and strengthening." It seems to us that it has a certain euphemistic point to maintain and strengthen. What we want is to maintain and expand aid for economic compensation, well with economic accounts, well in time. Because we think it wouldn't really have a big impact. In fact, it has virtually no impact on the ark of the board of Galicia, but of course it would be an important support for them and them. And nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u39	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] On behalf of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas Berganginos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I think we are all aware -- or we should -- that November 25 is a date of claim and struggle that was born, among many other reasons, to make the violence against women visible and to fight against lack of knowledge and recognition. And in that long path that feminism has gone and that we have walked feminists as a political subject one of the fundamental issues is to name and define what is masculine violence and who affects it. And in recent years, I believe that in this way we have taken important steps collectively, as a society, in the visibility that both the children and the children are also victims of macho violence; in different ways, in different ways, but ultimately also victims. That's why I want to start this intervention today by making a recognition of feminism, of the German feminist movement, because I believe that in our country it is really who has been able to push forward social progress. And we should have a bit of modesty in this Parliament, because if Galicia actually has an advanced position in the fight against violence against masculine violence, some of the merit is that of the institutions. [[Applause]] But, of course, I think we should collectively have a little more modesty, since the medal has neither the Popular Party nor the Socialist Party nor the Nationalist Block of Wales, but a Greek society that is critical, that is active and that has also a strong feminist movement that answers each of the setbacks in the streets, and that also critically demands that the answer be better and better. And in particular, in the matter of what we're talking about, I think it must be acknowledged that the feminist movement fought for many years against the institutional blindness that was obvious from the statistics so many situations. I want to recall, for example, that it was in 2013 when they started counting the and the minor victims of macho violence who were murdered, leaving out the ones and the youngest orphans, whose incorporation was still recent. And I also want to recall that it is recent that the incorporation of many macho violence, of many victims of macho violence, which were not officially recognized because they were not murdered by their husband or partner. And there too, feminism has always taught with alternative statistics like what we did in our country and makes the World Women's March or what the state level did Feminicide.net. I believe it is important that we do not lose that perspective and the necessary self-criticism that we must also have as political leaders in this Parliament. One example of the invisibility of children and children in this context of patriarchy and violence is precisely that absence of statistics for a long time. And to become aware of the true dimension of this problem, we have to look at the data we have on the table. Not many, but there are some who are very illustrative of the harshness of the situation. I would like to mention, for example, the report by the General Council of the Judiciary in May this year, which analyzed the first thousand cases of male violence in the Spanish state between 2003 and 2019. First I want to draw attention to the fact that he talks about a thousand cases — which is an absolute barbarity — but which leaves many out because of that delay in the visibility of the statistics he was talking about earlier. What do you tell us? Well, tell us that at that time, in those fifteen years, maternity was and is a risk factor. For the fear that the aggressor will harm the women and the children as revenge or reprisal against the mother stops many women in denouncing. Tell us that 75.1% of the cases had children and that we know today that these 1,000 murders remained 765 children and orphans of mothers. It's an absolute barbarity. And that's why this requires that we take this matter seriously above political confrontation. I think it was an important step for the Ministry to begin, even if it was late, to include those and the minors in statistics, but I would like to say in this debate that, in order to understand and deal with the violence of macho, we must also move forward in the pending issues of the state pact — which is inexplicable that they are not being developed today — as the integration of a definition that is in agreement with Istanbul of the violence of macho, as we have in this country since 2007. Because even the judicial area — which we often criticise in this Parliament because it has many issues in its structure that do not favor the fight against violence against men — already since 2018 also computes cases of women who are not murdered by their partners. And we sincerely believe from the BNG that in this matter the central government should step on the accelerator. Turning to the question of the initiative, I wanted to draw attention to something earlier when we talk about the protection of children and orphans, which is that in general we have to overcome a framework for the protection of orphans and orphans that was very insufficient. I do want to acknowledge that the 2019 reform, although it was too late — because it must also be remembered that there has been a progressive majority in Congress since 2015, which is said soon — was a step forward, it was a very important step forward. I don't want to demean it because, among other matters, it's fundamental to me that there has been an increase in pensions and orphanage benefits, which was practically irresolute and which is supposed to be a deprotection of thousands of children and children in our country. And, in particular, on the issue of the affect of children and children orphaned by macho violence, I think it's important to incorporate them. Now, it's obvious that, after a year and a peak of its application, there are problems. We are aware that there are deficiencies. I'd say these are two-type deficiencies. On the one hand, a lack of information, of knowledge. What many collectives and many professionals who work with victims of macho violence tell us is that there is a lack of knowledge on the part of operators, but on many occasions also on the part of victims who, because of this retroactive character, could receive these benefits. But the system doesn't always have the ability to report that. We have seen a period of improvement in the care system, but the fact is that the deficiencies of previous years also sometimes lead us to the difficulties of the bodies themselves, such as a CIM or a women's support group, to have the ability to inform children and children who might enjoy that benefit and who do not come to them to provide that information. That's why we include a point in our amendment that goes on the line that both the state and the Union, because of the very important character that the Galician Union has at the immediate level of attention, because they can develop information campaigns to get to know and use this resource. But the truth is there's another technical problem of application, which is the basic question we want to go to. Indeed, to us, when we read the People's Party proposal, we were surprised by the inaccuracy of point 1. Some of the questions have already been explained here by Mrs. Díaz. It seems to us that the motion for a resolution is not very specific and that is why we did what we understood we had to do, which is to present a constructive amendment with which I hope we can reach some kind of consensus. I can assume that if I go wrong in the configuration -- no one is perfect and I or my group do it on occasion -- now well, I have to tell the Socialist Party that, being aware that there may be errors in the application of a rule -- because it's logical, the laws are not accurate and planned for each of the cases we actually have -- to me what surprises me is that you do not amend to improve the application of the law in the sphere of the state and that they only place the duty of the Union. We, regardless of how satisfactory it may be to give a slash in this rostrum, because we have done with responsibility what we understand to do, which is to put their duties on both legs, because there is scope for improvement from the state and there is scope for improvement from the board of Galicia. Then we're all right about the bottom line. It is true that there may be some cases that remain unprotected, essentially the question of the existence of a biological father who cannot be able to take over the custody of that minor or other similar issues, and therefore it is necessary to evaluate and correct that. We also insist on making the resource known, and we also add a couple of proposals that we understand would improve the action of the Galician Union. On the one hand, regarding the aid that exists, and that we consider that in its day it has been a great step forward — this proposal was born from the framework of a debate that brought the BNG to this House to increase the counts of periodic aid to victims and we see it as something positive and we understand that it is positive to its existence — in this context of budgets with an important expenditure ceiling, of what the People's Party calls for, because we understand that something as elementary as a slight increase in respect of the IPC we are in time to value it. It is a moderate suba but which on many occasions can help in general those who receive these benefits in a context of economic difficulties, but we also know that class issues go through victims of violence and that would therefore be important. So that's what we propose.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u41	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u42	And then there's another question in a positive sense. Measure 170 of the Pact on Male Violence — and to this end, Mr President — calls for a review of the cases of minor women who were victims of violence to assess their degree of integration into society, the degree of operation, ultimately, of the protection system. We understand that here the Galician Union has the ability to evaluate, at least in the last couple of years, the extent to which this is serving or if we need some kind of correction. So, finally, what we ask for is that we also value the study of this issue. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Díaz, if you wanted to come here today to do this, the Comedy Club, who knows that the writer has already hired Mr. Ivan Redondo on the list of eight hundred Moncloa advisors. [[Applause]] Look, it's wrong in this Parliament if you think we're going to join you in a competition of those who do or did more for victims of violence or for equality in this country. That's your big mistake, the big mistake of the Socialist Party, which wants to take advantage of the defense of equality, the defense of women. And they won't find us there. Because, look, we actually support it unanimously. It is not that we support it unanimously, but that it is approved unanimously with the vote of the People's Party. We support the 2004 Comprehensive Gender Violence Act, but that law already included, for example, the order of protection that it was really the one that released women victims of gender violence from their battering machine by putting him out of the house. And that, the order of protection, was passed by a government of the People's Party. So I'm not going to come in here in a competition with you who did or who didn't. We all contributed... yes, ma'am, to study legislation a little bit because you're a little sloppy. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And you come here to talk about torpedoes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u45	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u46	Look, the Ministry of Equality itself recognizes the unprotection of orphans, Mrs. Díaz. Look, the torpedoes and the image of humiliation were the one you gave here today. Mrs. Presas has just explained it to her. Indeed, Mrs Díaz, of course we support the change of the year 2019, I would miss more! because it improves — and much — the situation of orphaned children and children of victims of gender-based violence. But -- I insist -- it doesn't cover situations where the killer isn't the father and when the parent is in a situation where you can't take care of those children who have been orphaned. I gave you two examples. Don't tell me I haven't read the law and read the press. Maybe you're reading the press and you're a little wrong. In any case, we won't accept your amendment, because your amendment doesn't add up. The addition is the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block. And of course we're going to accept many of the points that presented the Galician Nationalist Block and of course we're going to deal with them. But we're not leaving her out. If you want to participate in that transaction, we invite you. Let's have your hand so you can incorporate yourself if you agree to point 1 of the Galician Nationalist Block. There may indeed be a flaw in writing, but don't say you're collected in the law, because I understand that it's a technical matter and that you didn't understand it very well. Look, the technical issues can all of us escape, but you came here, with that superiority that you went up to this rostrum, to make a mistake. Mrs. Díaz, I'll tell you something. Equality begins in education. Yes, exactly... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u47	Silence! Silence! Mrs. Prado, I'm sorry. Listen to who's using the word. Please, shut up! I'll have to call order, and I don't think it's appropriate on any occasion, and less on this one.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, we've been in this House for a long time. And I've never seen more macho tics from a Member than those I've seen in the last days of a socialist deputy. So, equal lessons from the Socialist Party in this House, zero! Yes, yes, he came here saying that women can do two things, and he came to say very serious things in this House, like questioning a woman's professionalism by being "the woman...". [[Applause]] That's very serious, that's the most rancous and macho tic you've ever seen in this House. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And that is attributable to a member of your ranks, Mrs Díaz. Lessons of equality to this group, no, Mrs. Díaz, no! [[Applause]] And you, look, you're the first of equality in this House -- I'm telling you to go over it -- because what you read in the papers is you. You said yesterday outside this House that the board had reduced the budget on equal terms by 50%. The 2009 budget and the 2009 board structure are reviewed. Because, look, then -- and I'm telling you to go inside because we're going to have a lot of debates -- there's also conciliation and childhood schools. And, look, in 2009 in the chapter of the fight against gender violence there were 13.81 million. Today, in 2020, there are 25 million, the double, the double!, without chapter I. Double! And if we compute the part of the state, 17 million. And if we add conciliation, Mrs. Díaz, in 2009 there were 54.7 million. Do you know how much today? There's 138.2 million. So stop trying to criticize. Sume, sume, and come here with constructive spirit. Because, look, we've been trying to build this House for a long time. The past legislation, with five groups...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u49	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u50	...with five groups, we were able to pull out many things with agreements and with everyone's consensus. If you don't want to participate, come on! I will, of course, offer a transaction to the Galician Nationalist Block because we agree with many of the issues raised in its amendment. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u51	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Pontón Mondelo and eighteen other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to combat gender violence and provide psychological attention to victims in the context generated by the coward-19
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u52	This motion for a non-law tabled two amendments, one from the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Noa Susana Díaz Varela, and another from the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Paula Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u53	To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u54	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. There is a phrase that is widely used, when the theories of communication are studied, to explain one of the most important of the 20th century — which was, in addition to a woman, Elisabeth Noelle-Neumann, in the spiral of silence: "That which is not spoken does not exist." In fact, despite the fact that the pandemic has closed the debates, it has cut the headlines in the media, it has cut the speeches over the past few months and even emptied the streets that the feminist movement has achieved over the past few years, macho violence is still there. Maybe you see a little less or you're a little less up on the agenda of institutions and governments, but it's not really gone. Male violence is still there. And not only did it not disappear, but it continued to be produced and reproduced in a context marked by months of confinement and restrictions on mobility that aggravate it. Today, which is the International Day for the Elimination of Machist Violence, from the BNG, from the Nationalist Block of Wales, we bring this initiative not routinely, but to deal with a key aspect in the approach of the machist violence that is most important, it fits in a context like the current one. We are talking about psychological care for women in situations of male violence and the need to provide this service in primary care, as it has been collecting for 13 years Law 11/2007, for the prevention and comprehensive treatment of gender violence, in article 25. The pandemic caused by the coward-19 — and especially the months of confinement, which were hard for all and for all — was even harder for women who were in a situation of macho violence. Imagine what it means for a woman who had to live for twenty-four hours on the seven days of the week and for three months with her batterer; with prolonged violence, constant in time and space, when school routines, work, to go shopping, family visit, and when it gets worse, in addition, this situation is caused by the feeling of impunity of the aggressors, who perceive less control over them. The latest data published in the Viogen tracking system in October 2020 indicate that in our country, Galicia, there are 3,714 active cases. Let's also think that the active cases identified as such by the system are just the tip of the iceberg of a much deeper reality — and terribly invisible as ever —. The confinement, and still today the measures that restrict mobility in many municipalities in our country, it powers the risk factors, increases the isolation of the victims and creates barriers that make it difficult for them to apply for help and denounce them. This morning there was this fall in the number of complaints filed by male violence, which has its reason to be precisely in these mobility restrictions and also in the months of confinement. This makes it difficult and impose barriers for women to report themselves, but it also sets these limitations when identifying and detecting possible cases of violence against men by the public administration, the professionals working within the system itself. Reduce to minimal expression the presence of health care, or increase the telematic processing of many aids or benefits, that loss of human contact to which we are dealing with the pandemic, prevents public service personnel from detecting and identifying situations of violence. And we know that, within that system, the public health network, the health system — and especially primary care, as the gateway to it — is a key piece for this. We've all passed through the health center, and often the symptomatology of a person, the stress paintings, anxiety, the damage — if any — serves to detect situations of violence that enable protocols to be activated. A simple "How are things at home?" You can change everything sometimes. Strengthening public health, primary care, and ensuring time for professionals in the care of each patient, is also essential to identify something more than a headache and what's behind constant headaches. Of course, Galicia today has programmes and procedures to care for women in situations of violence, psychological care programs. We're not saying the opposite. There is an agreement signed by the Union with the Official College of Psychology of Galicia to provide urgent psychological assistance and support to women in situations of violence and their daughters and children. There is also a psychological care program for women who suffer from it as a general rule, not as a matter of urgency — in which their children, children or other persons in the family environment are also collected — which is also provided by professionals in the College of Psychology. But these programs, which are the result — I insist — of the agreements signed by the Government with the Official College of Psychology of Galicia, being important, are not enough. And, above all, it does not comply with article 25 of the Law of 2007, which is very clear demanding the incorporation of psychological care as a primary care service; psychological care which is indispensable and essential for women in a situation of macho violence, but which is also essential for the population as a whole. And here we want -- given the circumstances in which we have been in this country for eight months -- to make an incision. One of the impacts — probably the biggest after the infections and deaths — that has had the pandemic, that you are having and that will have on the whole of our country's citizenship and the world's condition about our emotional and psychological health. The Galician College itself, in a report published at the beginning of the defination process, warned that many people who in a normal situation overcome, or we overcome, daily adversities without any greater difficulty by ourselves are confronted by the cowardly-19 subject to new stress factors generated by the pandemic itself. This requires measures from the public level to prevent the consequences that this may have on the mental health of the population as a whole. We are facing an unprecedented health, economic and social crisis in the last 100 years. And that will irremediably have an emotional, emotional, and psychological consequence on the whole population. Decentralize and bring psychological attention to citizenship, establishing the professional figure of clinical psychology in primary care centers, would allow faster access to the population and reduce workload in mental health units; especially for those people who have been most affected by the pandemic and included, of course, women victims of macho violence, whether this physics, whether psychological, sexual or any other kind, and, as our law has said for the past 13 years, there has been such violence in the public, in the family or in the private sector. Because — I insist — although the allegations have decreased, macho violence has not been reduced but quite the opposite. The data provided by the Galician Union itself for the first half of 2020 thus show it. During the first months of this year, the number of visits to the victim's pay phone increased by 35% over the same period as in 2019 — which was also discussed earlier this morning. And consultations at women's information centres have increased by 16%. We can't just go down the guard. We need to strengthen and expand the resources that already exist adapting to a reality that is different from what we knew, and the impact that the pandemic is having today on the population of our country. So since the BNG, in the resolution, or in the proposed part, of this initiative, we once again demand that the budget directed to the fight against masculine violence, the programmes specifically planned in budgets directed to the fight against masculine violence, if they increase to 1% we again formulate this proposal just when the budget project has just entered practically for its processing. It would be very important for this House today to come out with a unanimous consensus from all forces on the fact that at least 1 in 100 euros are destined to fight against violence. And we also formulated the proposal for the development of a specific plan for the approach, from the field of psychology, of the consequences that copper, confinement and other measures to restrict mobility have on women, about women we know they are in a situation of macho violence, because they are identified as such by the system, but also about those which, not being identified, are also suffering. Because patriarchy, machismo, is not a virus, gentlemen. It is a system of social domination that has in macho violence, the one that is practiced against women by the mere fact of being, the most useful tool to submit. Unlike in the shed, there is no vaccine that immunizes or cures you. It's not a disease, it's a very rooted social behavior. And there will be a need for means, more means, more resources, more budgets, more visibility and, above all, much more feminism to combat. For now, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs. Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u56	Thank you, President. Good morning again. Indeed, we are today on a marked day. And by the way, I've forgotten before that it's been 20 years since 25N is the day of the elimination of macho violence. We hope we haven't been able to celebrate another 20, of course. We regret, regrettably, and despite all the efforts in legislative matters — and not only legislative — by all governments — and already with two Greek women killed this year, the reality is that the data that various official bodies offer are really shocking. At the moment, as has already been said, in Galicia there are 3,733 active cases of male violence, 3,733 women who are currently in a situation of ill-treatment! But we don't, either, have to focus on the current data, which produce shocks. What it really causes is to know or know other data, which were known recently by the macro-enquisition that the Ministry did last year, that they speak, for example – and we take only the data referred to in Galicia – that 33.9 % of women suffer violence by our partners or ex-partners throughout our lives, or 33.9%!; that 35.7% of women suffer sexual harassment throughout our lives -- sexual harassment almost 36% -- that 17.4% of women suffer physical violence outside their partner throughout our lives; or that, for example, 40% of women over 65 at some point suffered some kind of violence and that 27% suffered from it for twenty-three years, two or three decades. And, of course, this data really does not invite anything but a deep reflection on what we are converting society, the kind of society we have. In addition, something that the Socialist Party is very interested in, which we are concerned about, is the issue that has to do with trafficking, with trafficking as one of the worst expressions of male violence. It points out, for example, that last year only a judicial procedure is initiated, which demonstrates the abandonment these women have on the side of society — which looks to the other side — and makes it clear how difficult it is for them to initiate a complaint, to be able to open an investigation or to identify those responsible. As I come here with a constructive spirit, I also have to say that we are glad that two or three years ago — I believe — the Council of Galicia has, of course, launched a program. And we also know that you are involved in this issue and are working with associations and entities to be able to move forward in this matter. What if it remains manifest is that, despite all the efforts made so far, it remains very much to be done, very much! And, from our point of view, what remains to be done is, above all, in the area of prevention. And that's what worries us the most. We understand that if it is true that resources, mechanisms and tools exist today so that those women who suffer from situations of abuse can reach all those resources — although there are some of them that we see in this issue. That's what we understand, but maybe what we miss a little bit is all that has to do with prevention. We're talking about prevention, sensitization, education. And from our point of view, at least there is a need to double our efforts on this issue, and to draw up a plan against gender-based violence which is primarily focused on prevention. We speak not of a plan but of a strategic plan aimed at certain social groups, stratified by ages, by geographic areas, by actions designed to protect... that is, there are actions aimed at protecting and accompanying women is something indisputable. But in the light of the data, what is essential is that, to work on that prevention. And how? So it seems to us, of course, that with a lot more programs in schools, with powerful campaigns that approach new people and the wrong use that is making of new technologies. And it is also necessary to direct these powerful campaigns to men. As the BNG spokesperson had said before, this year, in addition, the situation was aggravated by the global pandemic. And indeed, if it has already affected women more intensely and in a concrete way because of the structural inequality in which we find ourselves, it is really especially terrible for women victims of macho violence, who during those months of confinement had to share a roof all that time with their abusers. The consequences are not yet known, and that is why we, in the amendment we tabled, in some ways urge the Galician Union to prepare a study on the situation of women victims of macho violence in Galicia during the pandemic, with particular attention to the period of confinement. It's not easy, but it's going to be a question of putting various entities and bodies — including the CIMs — to get all that data closer. We, of course, in the face of what we're saying, have announced our vote in favour of the non-law proposition that brings the BNG here today. Of course, also because we agree with the claim of a significant increase in funds destined for the fight against gender-based violence, which are in all insufficient light. In fact, in this proposed budget, we see that the relative increase is really low. It's about employment policies, but it's not about violence. And we think that, in addition to these 8 million of the state pact that comes every year, we would have to increase those funds. And there's a question that we would also like to make clear here today in this plenary. And the Socialist Group is a little concerned about the use being made of these funds. And explain. We do not doubt at any time the purpose of using these funds, but if we ask the Council of Galicia — and we will probably tell the General Secretariat of Equality tomorrow — the control of those funds. These funds are distributed cross-sectionally and — I think someone said it yesterday — is something we understand. We also understand equality and, of course, the fight against macho violence as something transversal. And we know it's not easy at all, but we would have to put greater effort on controlling those actions that are implemented against macho violence using those funds of the State Covenant. Practically every year, we see the wrong use of these funds by entities — municipalities or anyone else — and then we demand a little more control. Of course, we also coincided with everything that has to do with the psychological care of the victims — to all the victims, who are not only, unfortunately, those women. We agreed on that point and we believe, moreover, that it is essential that we comply with the law and then increase all resources. Any increase, in fact, will be little. We also want to put forward proposals in this motion. And what we're proposing is to create in this amendment a true Greek network of information centres for women. It's true that women's information centres are municipal services, but the self-government is also here to drive. And you know, like me, that most of these centers are largely funded by grants and assistance from the Galician Union. So we understand that it is also up to the Galician Council to campaign or encourage the municipalities to which, with the very few resources they have, they can create these CIMs. And besides, as it was said here, we didn't talk about creating a CISG in municipalities of 400 inhabitants, Mrs Prado. No, we're talking about precisely that, about CIM grouping municipalities, but getting them out and somehow all the women of the 313 Greek municipalities, all of them, can have a nearby resource. Why? For this is also done with another of the issues we have raised in our amendment — and the Socialist Group is very concerned — and we want the measures aimed at the attention of women living in rural areas to be reinforced. We precisely believe that they are the women who are most forgotten today in this struggle. And not because they're forgotten, but because it's very difficult for them to get to these resources and these tools. Not just because they don't have them in a nearby environment but because of their own vital or family structure. So, what we're talking about in our amendment is that we believe that we should increase the number of specialized resources, as I say, in a manner consistent with rural reality and geographic distribution, and adapt the prevention and awareness campaigns to their needs, focusing on them. Because, as you know, nothing has to do with urban contours. Finally, as I have already said, what we want is to be filled with content and resources, this fight against violence, which, of course, — as we said at the outset — is certainly going to increase — with a strong increase — the funds destined for this. Of course, if they do, as Mr. Gonzalo Caballero, our secretary general, has already said, they will always find in this group the greatest collaboration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Varela. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u58	Do you hear him now? [[Pause.]] Well, the BNG initiative has four points focused on providing resources to care for victims of gender-based violence, particularly in the area of psychological care. For us it is fundamental — and you know it, Mrs Rodil, because we have already discussed this on other occasions. And indeed, not only do victims have to be helped economically, not only do they have to help them get out of the circle of violence where they are with their abusers, but they have to be rebuilt. And for that it's very important to do it from the psychological point of view, since it's one of the cracks that the batterer uses, which starts with psychological pressure. Often it doesn't go away, but unfortunately the next step is physical violence. But even if there's only physical violence, psychological sequels are also left. We therefore regard attention in this area as fundamental. In point 1 — it is a BNG classic — it proposes to allocate 1% of the budget to the fight against gender-based violence. Well, you know we disagree and you know why. Because I was supposed to admit an aid policy. You call for 1% to pay attention to the victims of gender-based violence. That assistanceism, that attention to the victims, we believe that it is perfectly covered by that change that we made in 2016 to provide the law with a comprehensive budget departure without limit. I mean, if there are 100 victims of gender-based violence in the year, they're going to be taken care of; and if there are 3,000 -- let's hope it doesn't -- as well. Therefore, that amount is perfectly guaranteed. Because we believe — and Mrs Rodil already knows — that the fight against gender-based violence goes beyond aidism. The fight against gender-based violence is not just to care for the victims. It's investing in education, it's investing in prevention, it's investing in awareness. And all of this is a cross-cutting policy and it has to impregnate all budgets. And if we add up all the games in the budgets of the Galician Union for that, they're much more than 1% of the budget, with a lot! All we have to do is look at the Conciliation and Co-responsibility Plan, which we think is fundamental. Because it is necessary to provide women with means of reconciliation and co-responsibility, which, in most cases and unfortunately — and in this confinement, we see it — are still responsible for home care and family care. These women need to be equipped with conciliation resources so they can have time to find a job when they're unemployed and, when they're working, to keep it and not have to go to precarious jobs, to temporary jobs, to mid-day jobs. Why? Because they often prioritize family care against that eight-hour job and go to four-hour jobs. And I said that only for the Conciliation and Co-responsibility Plan, from 2018 to 2021, the Union is going to be EUR 848,755.30. You know that at the start of this year 2021 we're talking about 213.263,332 euros. Because, of course, we're not going to make the bills Mr. Knight made this morning to say that in the Bipartite they were going to spend more money. When it suits them, they add everything to say that equality policies... and, when not, we reduce ourselves to the attention of the victims only. If we talk only about gender-based violence, the year 2009 was EUR 2.8 million. And in 2020, 6.3. So we're talking too much of the double. You spoke of the agreement, and psychological care as a primary care service. I don't think that if women who are victims of gender-based violence are cared for by psychologists who are part of the team of psychologists and psychologists who are at the disposal of the agreement they have signed to the Galician Union, it's not a primary care service. You're the one who circumscribes primary health care. But I believe that a consultation in primary health care is not comparable to an integral care, which covers this cooperation agreement between the Vice President and the Official College of Psychology. I'll tell you why. Because, look, this psychological care program for women and minors who suffer from gender-based violence — and besides other people from their family environment who live or suffer from such situations of gender-based violence — goes beyond what the law itself states. Because, first, you take care of more people. Entrance, even caring for family members, family members. I don't want to remember a murder here where both the mother and the victim's sister had to take psychological attention. If we dealt solely with what that article of strict law says, they wouldn't be entitled to that attention. So we believe this is an integral attention, the program has a psychology professional who coordinates the entire network of professionals who carry out the intervention, which consists of both assistance and consultations to beneficiaries, oral trial assistance by psychologists and psychologists of the program. And even in the convention is the coverage of urgent home care in the event of death or particularly serious assaults due to gender violence, coordinated with GIPCE, as well as collaboration with the Autonomic Center for Integral Recovery for Women who suffer Gender Violence in the therapeutic and psychological support of their users. The year 2014 included the guarantee of access to persons with hearing impairment or speech. And also in 2019 it was included a novelty, which was to put as potential beneficiaries, for the first time victims of vicar violence, by the person involved; that is, those women who suffer the murder of their sons or daughters by the perpetrator. But there is also another agreement between the Vice-Presidentship and the Official College of Psychology of Galicia for the launch of a specialized and permanent psychological guard shift for women and their children who suffer gender violence in the autonomous community. And this agreement is a pioneer in Spain and it's not collected in any law. I don't think we have to legislate everything. There are things that can be done perfectly without being collected by legislation. And all these resources I think are fundamental to the victims. With this convention, what is done is that the attention is immediate. For possible emergency situations, the requirement of security forces and bodies is lent and, in those cases where the criteria for the activation of this service are met, the twenty-four hours are lent in the three hundred sixty-five days of the year in all the judicial parties of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. Mrs. Díaz, of course the Galician Junta is doing a lot of campaigns, campaigns in education centers, the audiovisual contest and slogans, the campaign with sports... there are 29 elite sportsmen and teams who are working with the bases, with children and sports girls. It's the campaign of reasons not to practice sexting. Very much if you could say here, but I'm not going to extend in time. But not only must we campaign, we must also properly equip ourselves with the resources we have. You were talking about the CIS. The People's Party in these last elections took the election program to create more CIM. Our will is not only left in an election program. The view is that in recent years the People's Party has continued to open CIM and support information centres for women. Look, within a few days, the information centre of the Aguiar Perero Woman will be set up. I encourage the Socialist mayors also to ask the General Secretariat of Equality to create CIM in their municipalities and that for the year we are talking about 100 CIM instead of talking about 82 or 83. But for that, there must be municipal policy will to create CIM. Our amendment is based on five points. Mrs. Rodil has already offered us a transaction, with which we almost agree on less in two matters. So I think we can make a deal. We called for an increase in the budget for equality, not only for the attention of the victims of gender-based violence — that's already guaranteed, as I said before. Equality needs to be addressed across the board. In the psychological care of victims, we believe that it is essential that we guarantee, that there is no revitalization, and that the victims, whenever they go to the health center, are found with a different professional. We believe that the agreement breaks with that revitalization and we believe that the agreement is working well. We call for a specific care plan for women in a situation of macho violence adapted to the reality generated by the coward-19, to maintain and expand the Plan of Strengthening Care for Victims of Gender Violence and to maintain and expand collaboration with the Galician Network against trafficking in human beings for the purpose of sexual exploitation. It is also essential to address the Government of Spain to promote the adoption of the Organic Law of Multidisciplinary Integral Fight Against Trafficking in Human Beings for the purpose of sexual exploitation and thus comply with that approved in the State Covenant against Gender Violence. I believe that we can reach an agreement, both on the previous initiative and on this one. Then I'll talk to you, Mrs. Rodil, about the points where we can reach an agreement.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u60	Thank you, President. Well, first of all, I also want to thank both groups for the tone, and also for the desire to reach an agreement and for a consensus in this House with this initiative. I believe that women, in addition to occupying the spaces that correspond to us by law — of which we have been excluded many times and still today in many of them, also in the public sphere and political representation — have to transform them. And I think we have to be precisely us, those women we define as feminists, those that we also change the ways of discussing, disagreeing, confronting political and ideological projects, which can be done — and must be done — with arguments and not as often as it is installed, with the attack and the sterile debate that takes us shortly. And I think we have a good example of that today. And we're going to some of the issues that came out and also the transaction proposal we made to the groups from BNG. As Mrs Prado said, it is a classic, indeed, BNG has been claiming for many years in this House, with every budgetary debate, that 1 in 100 euros is destined to fight against violence, measures and programmes aimed at combating violence. This is how we are debating this bill. And I, when I spoke to Mrs. Prado, came back about the resolution and the point first, because I didn't marry what I remembered we collected. We're not talking about economic aid. Combating male violence is actually preventing and intervening when necessary. It's not just attending. I also do not share that view that the economic aid to women in situations of violence of masquerade is aidism. It is a right and, in addition, the tool that we find to break with the circle of violence in those cases of masculine violence — which are many — in which economic violence is also practised, when women's autonomy and independence is not guaranteed, because if they are denied the right to autonomously use family incomes, or even when they have to give up them because they are not allowed, for example, what is an important part of our development, as it is working. Those economic aids are not assistants. I insist, I am a right. But what we have made with the proposal that 1 in 100 euros of budgets go to combat machist violence is precisely that it goes to all the games they have as their aim to prevent, that they have as their aim to intervene and, above all, build different realities. I'm very much in favour of the idea of transversality. I see it that way, too. This permeates and goes through everything, because inequality, discrimination and violence against women are not encapsulated in any area of government or in any part of our lives. They go through us absolutely in every area, in the public and in the private. But it can't serve that idea of transversality to retract or hide. This transversality is also built by making these games which are aimed at preventing and intervening in the face of masculine violence in all fields and from all departments — in this case of a government — to have a sufficient content and, above all, to increase, given — I turn a little back to what I was saying at the beginning — the situation we have today, which is not that we had eight months ago but which has been aggravated precisely as a result of the pandemic. And then — and indeed this is not the first time we have discussed it — about compliance with Article 25 and bringing psychological attention to primary care, precisely that desire to incorporate it into the primary health care network and the public network, the objective is to ensure that it is integral and, above all, not at demand. I mean, today, to join the protocols, projects and programs resulting from these agreements signed with the Official College of Psychology of Galicia, you have to be recognized as a woman in a situation of macho violence. We know that many times it is precisely the psychological accompaniment of what comes, for example, the denunciation and recognition of the situation of violence. If we incorporate that figure of clinical psychology into primary care, we can guarantee that psychological intervention even before we can detect or recognize, individually or collectively, that we are suffering violence. And, as I also said in my first intervention, what we guarantee is that the whole of society can also access this service, this right and this fundamental attention, as we indicated, because also all of us and all of us, regardless of our situation, suffer an emotional, affective and psychological impact with which we are living. Because it's not normal or it's natural not to be able to touch us, it's not normal or it's natural not to be able to be in society, like human beings. That leads us to an uninhabited situation before. I never thought I'd live a curfew -- even if we don't want to call it that -- never in my life. Perhaps there are other people who are older and who have lived the last collections of the dictatorship. But a person my age or one who has a little bit more or a little less, none, thought never to live a situation like this. This affects us collectively and individually and we need to pay attention to a fundamental part of our development, which is mental health and psychology, both of the whole of society — but not only — and, above all, those groups or priority groups, as are women.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u61	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u62	...in a situation of macho violence. We're ready, we hold hands, as always, and we're going to try to reach an agreement. We made a compromise proposal that I believe incorporates virtually all the approaches of the different groups, effectively maintaining also the political will that BNG expresses with its original formulation. And we have a little time to work and get that deal. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular, at the initiative of Mr Miguel Állado Filgueira and 13 other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government for the establishment of a system of distribution of European funds based on transparency and objectivity
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u64	There is an amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. [[(G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of his colleague Juan Carlos Francisco Rivera, through the spokesperson and the authorship of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, presented the following amendment to this non-law proposal to the Bureau. (11/PNP-000574, doc. # 5010) AMENDMENT OF AMENDMENT:The resolution of the non-law proposal must be replaced by the following:"The Greek Parliament:1. It agrees to constitute urgently, prior to compliance with the regulatory requirements, a statement to form a country position around the prioritization of projects to choose the allocation of European funds, for their defence at the Sectoral Conference of European Funds to be held between the Government and the Autonomous Communities.2. To urge the Galician Board to forward to the Galician House, immediately listing the 108 projects sent by the Autonomous Administration for inclusion in the National Recovery and Resilence Plan, with detailed explanation on the nature of the project, its impact on job creation, selection criteria and name of the company or entity, public or private, project executor."]] [[(G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block (BNG), at the initiative of Mrs Noa Presas Bergantiños, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal. (11/PNP-000574)Replace the resolution with the following text: "The German Parliament agrees to urge the Galician Parliament to abandon its unilaterality policy, excluding relevant social agents, lack of transparency and obscurantism regarding our country's work to define the priority lines for opting for the European arbitrate funds to respond to Covid-19. In particular, to commit to:1. Immediately forward to the Galician Parliament, within a maximum of 3 days, all information relating to project planning, notifications sent to European and State institutions as well as those corresponding to the announcements by the President of the Galician Union in successive press releases.2. Reject the centralisation of funds and demand from the central government the direct management of the Galician funds and of the affected own competences, as well as the joint negotiation with the communities of the criteria for sharing.3. To set up a forum to draw up a proposal for consensus to be defended through bilateral negotiations between the Galician Union and the state to negotiate the distribution of €140 billion from the European Union and to value to defend against the central government that in the distribution of MRR funds the following criteria are taken into account:3.1)The reverse of GDP per capita. The weight of this indicator must be greater than that of the population with the objective of avoiding concentration of funds in the most populated territories.3.2)The demographic situation. As indicators of territorial imbalances, account must also be taken of: (a)The evolution of the population by favouring those territories with the worst behaviour and (b)]] The weight of the young population dominates those territories in which it is smaller. 3.3 The unemployment rate criterion must be complemented by the use of the activity rate. 3.4 The reverse of labour productivity as an indicator of the degree of strength and resilience of the productive tissue so that the distribution of funds contributes to Galicia's economic cohesion. 3.5)The weight of rural territory. 3.6)Populational dispersal, to take account of the higher cost of providing public services that involve dispersal. 3.7)The ageing of the population. 3.8)The loss of employment by closing thermal power plants as a result of the necessary energy transition. 3.9)The low rate of replacement for health personnel.”
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u65	Mr Tellado has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u66	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Today we bring again from the People's Parliamentary Group to this House an initiative on an issue which we consider essential for the future of Galicia. The European Funds Next Generation will be an indispensable impulse to reactivate the economies of all member countries, very weakened after this pandemic we are living. It is EUR 750,000 million distributed among the Member States, which will account for Spain for EUR 140 billion. These funds are also a great opportunity for the future, because this crisis has only come forward for a few years, or perhaps a few decades, the need for the transformation of our economy. We need to think about it right now as the opportunity that we need to transform Galicia's productive system, to modernize Galicia's productive system, to bet on a greener economy, an even more digital economy and consolidate a model for the next few decades. That is why it is more important than ever to ensure that Galicia receives the European funds it needs in order to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, our initiative supports clear criteria for the distribution of these European funds marked by transparency and objectivity. It defends three principles: firstly, the principle of subsidiarity and co-governance, and bet that autonomous communities participate in the definition of the criteria for distribution — as is the case in most countries that make up the European Union —; secondly, the principle of competitive competition, which eliminates any risk of discretion or arbitraryity in the distribution of these funds by establishing serious criteria, transparent criteria, objective and objective criteria; and thirdly, the principle of social cohesion and territorial cohesion, because we must combine this competitive competition with a map of aid consistent with the reality of the different territories, so that distribution takes into account fundamental factors, such as income levels per capita, percentage of population living in rural areas, demographic challenge or industrial transition. We cannot afford an economic reactivation that further aggravates the territorial differences that exist in our country. Since the first moment, the Galician Union has understood that we have to get out of this economic crisis but that we have to do better than we were, it has understood that this crisis is an opportunity to improve, and that is why this allocation of funds for us is fundamental. This allocation of funds is going to be decisive. We can't just resign ourselves to saving the production model that already exists, but we have the opportunity to work on the model of our economy tomorrow, of the economy that is about to come. With this objective, the Greek Government has set up a committee of economic experts in May, rather than anyone else. When no one was thinking of this, the Galician Union constituted this committee of economic experts with a double task: the reactivation and impulse of our economy, weakened during these months of pandemic, and its gradual transformation with a determined bet, with a bet on the future. In this line, the German Government has introduced a series of tractor projects — agreed with this expert commission — which are viable projects, tractor projects, projects that are able to take out other projects; projects with a real demand, projects with a future which, thanks to these funds, can be converted first into reality, into a horizon, of course, closer. These are projects that have a lot to do with Galicia and the goal of mobilizing investment, innovation and employment. As you know, these first tractor projects were the bet on a hydrogen plant, which would produce 50 megawatts of green energy; a waste recovery center to transform them into biogas and fertilizer — circular economy — and a manufacturing center for natural textile fibres coming from wood. And together with these other projects will come more, these are the tractor projects of that global package of 108 projects already presented to the Government of Spain. We believe that this is the way to the future, a future that will — whether we are prepared or not — be greener and more digital. That's the way and this is the line of work that has been marked by the Galician Union over the past few months: the modernization of the productive tissue through digital transition, efficient mobility and ecological transition, social cohesion and territorial cohesion, and dynamic and efficient administration. It's a line of work, gentlemen, that comes marking the European Union and constitutes the great cross-sectional goal that seeks the next generation funds. The European Commission itself has defined the objective of these funds, this programme, which is to cover the investment needs arising from the digital ecological transition and the most important economic and social challenges arising from this crisis, such as employment, R & D+i, education, health and the financial sector. And on this line, these 108 projects presented by the Galician Council, which are estimated to be able to mobilise more than EUR 9.500 million. This is Galicia's future bet. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the state of alarm and all the exceptional situation we have been living in the last few weeks, over the past few months, can't be the excuse for the Socialist Government to end with the present and also with the future of the Greek economy. On the one hand they want to put an end to everything that was already consolidated, and we have lived over the last few months with very clear attacks on the industry in our country. We live with the intensive industry, which we don't talk about now; we also live with the hasty closure of the Greek thermal power plants -- a closure that has precipitated the socialist government itself -- and, on the other hand, we have the feeling that this government itself wants to take away the possibility of building a future through these funds, through the transition to a greener and digital economy that represents these funds, which wants to divide in an opaque way and without anyone. For us today the debate is not whether Pablo Iglesias is going to be part of that commission that will distribute the funds. That is not the debate, the debate is whether that committee is going to be a technical and non-political commission. Because, if it is a political commission, it makes us venture into political decisions which, whenever this government adopts them, the socialist government, eventually harm our community. And I end by appealing, through this initiative, to a great deal of country agreement. We need a great deal of country agreement around this. We believe that it is essential for a country agreement to bring a single voice, with a strong voice, to the Government of Spain, to the Socialist Government, that Galicia will not give up what it belongs to; a voice that demands that this territorialization of these European funds should take into account, firstly, the territories to which the funds are directed and, therefore, cannot decide on them a political committee formed by President Sánchez with his supposed experts — no technical, all politicians, all socialists — and now, with Pablo Iglesias. That's not what we're worried about. What we're concerned about is not whether or not it's Paul Iglesias. The real important thing is that this commission is a technical commission and distributes funds with transparency and objectivity. We need a great deal of agreement around the distribution of these European funds so that Galicia does not take away what Galicia owes it. We are faced with an opportunity to build a future without giving up on the present, and that no one thinks we're betting on a green and digital economy, and in return we give up the intensive industry and give up the thermals. No, no, we have to make everything compatible. What already exists we will continue to defend it, but also betting on that future — that if the Socialist Government does not punish Galicia, it may be closer. Of course, we are presenting this initiative to send a clear message to the Government of Spain, a unique voice, to this Parliament in Galicia, which demands nothing more and nothing less than what Galicia is to it. Unity, that's our proposal, defending Galician interests. We believe that this is the obligation of the seventy-five Members that we make up this House. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u68	For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Francisco Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u69	Mr. President. Good morning to all, ladies and gentlemen. This is indeed a repeated debate. Fifteen days ago in this plenary session, at the initiative of the BNG, the position around these multimillionaire funds was discussed. And indeed, Mr Tellado, I would like to thank you today for your intervention — at least in the first intervention —. I think I agree with you, we all agree. We must have a country position on this very important issue, a country position that obviously also requires political groups to know what the Council of Galicia is doing on this issue. Obviously, the European Union's political position has changed with regard to the current crisis we are living at European and state level. Indeed, there is a political change based primarily on the implementation of public spending expansion policies, policies that have nothing to do with fiscal adjustment and spending policies that have led to the drowning of many countries in the past years of the financial crisis, the debt crisis — even here in Spain with a real estate crisis —. And in that sense, of course, the first question that we have to say on this issue is that we are satisfied with the answer being given from the European institutions, although there are currently countries that are trying to block the approval of these funds, countries which have some kind of problem that is not currently acceptable in the context of the European Union. I hope that kind of veto gets over and logically these funds get into operation. The funds, indeed, are multi-millionaires, with 140 billion for Spain - you mentioned - of which 70,000 million are fast-run, running in the years 2021 and 2022, and which are also deep-lost grants. Logically, there is another line of subsidies — 70,000 — which probably have to be loans and which, therefore, has to be returned, which is logical and obvious. These funds are multimillionaires, but they have a complexity, which is their execution. And we have experience in the Spanish state as a whole, and also in Galicia, of the difficulty of executing European funds, of the colossal difficulty that involves mobilising 140 billion euros in this context. In fact, the funds are designed with specific objectives. In addition to strengthening the economy in countries at this time of pandemic, it is also a matter of guiding the economy towards the future, towards the ecological transition, towards the digital transformation, towards the modernization of public administration, towards territorial cohesion, social cohesion, support for women and also for self-government. And it is true that these objectives also coincide with the goals that the United Nations defends in terms of sustainable development and climate change. And it is true that, at last, the position of the Spanish State in relation to these funds I believe is positive. We have reached an investment commitment, through these funds, of 140 billion, which we are satisfied with, because it means that the Spanish Government also has a strong position at the moment in the European Commission. But we need to know that this type of funds are assessed on the basis of the impact of the pandemic on all countries and that they do not establish criteria for territorial distribution, although it is true that in the internal context countries are allowed to define the criteria for the allocation of these funds; criteria that logically have to be oriented towards the policies that mark the agreement in this case — it has been closed — between the Council of the Union and the European Parliament itself. This is a first step, because it is now missing the preparation of the fund management regulation and therefore we need to know how these funds will be managed. And that regulation is not yet adopted. The European Union's budget must also be approved. We are therefore at the first stage in the process of implementing these European funds. Funds from which, in fact, the Spanish State has already allocated in the budget the possibility of running EUR 27 billion even without approval of the funds. And even the Galician Union also has EUR 430 million in its budget for this issue, also derived from European funds. And, therefore, we agree with the need to prioritize the execution of these funds and defend that there is a country position. And there, Mr Tellado, we agree with you and the People's Group on this initiative. I think we need to define a position of country, a position of country that goes through social dialogue, of course, through dialogue with economic agents, but also through dialogue with political agents, with representatives of the citizenry, with political groups of this Parliament. It cannot be that today the Galician Parliament — and I do not say that this debate must be public — does not know the 108 projects you are talking about. I think it is necessary that the House, the political parties, the parliamentary groups represented in this House, we know these projects, even if it is true, with confidentiality clauses or whatever you want. This has been said — and it's not my job — in the Economic Reactivation Commission. Experts who appear there have manifested it. On the other hand, I believe that there is a need for consensus — which was also mentioned in the Reactivation Commission itself by the Economic and Social Council — in relation to these funds. They're very important, they're vital, considering the difficulty of their execution, and considering the colossal magnitude that involves mobilizing these funds, let's not be mistaken. If we take the R & D+i funds from 2014 to 2018, we realize that 25% of these funds were executed in Galicia. So at last, I think it's important to define the position of a country, it's important to define the projects that have to be able to assume those funds and it's necessary that it be done agilely, quickly. And on the other hand, I understand that autonomous communities, of course, have to participate in this. At the Conference of Presidents, at which Mr Feijóo and all the autonomous presidents attended, even Commissioner Von der Leyen, agreed to set up a sectoral fund conference where autonomous communities have to manage, or will manage, 50% of these funds. It is a co-governance regime that we assume and which is also assumed in this sense. So we also share that idea. Our initiative, Mr. Tellado, our amendment, is going that way. We haven't changed too much either. You already know it: to set a country position — I think we agree with you — and also to set that country position articulated around a presentation in this Parliament, with the confidentiality that is necessary and also with the knowledge of the projects that the Council of Galicia is discussing. We, of course, have knowledge through the media of these four projects, a summary of what these four projects involve. We have no knowledge of the real impact they have on the economy, of the real impact they have on the job. We have no knowledge of the quality of these projects either, and it would therefore be good for us in the Galician Parliament to have had knowledge of those funds and those projects. Otherwise, what do you want me to say, Mr. Tellado? This is the position we have held in the last debate, that is the position we have now held. And I logically pick up your placement to set a country position. The Socialist Party, of course, agrees with that position. On the other hand, I understand that the funds, by their colossal magnitude, obviously will not distribute them to Mr. Sánchez. I think you have a mantra with Mr. Sánchez there, because every time you go up this rostrum you take responsibility for the socialist government and Mr. Sánchez of all the evils of the world. And I don't think it's for that, either. I mean, here each one has his own role, he has his own role. [[Applause]] I believe that the position of the Spanish State has been well defended throughout the European Union. 18.66%, 140 billion, will be executed hypothetically by the Spanish State. So we're happy there. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u70	Thank you, Mr. Francisco Rivera. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u71	Thank you, President. I am very sorry but I will not begin my intervention by thanking Mr. Tellado for his tone; firstly, because having a minimum education and respect for opposition groups should be the norm and not the exception and, secondly, because I am convinced that he came here with a poisoned tone, Mr. Tellado, because we do not believe a single appeal to the consensus that you have made. And we don't believe them for the reality and experience of these months. I'm sure in the replica, when you're less content, we'll also have more confirmation. And, look, I tell you with all the sincerity that, if we had to translate and briefly summarize the content of your intervention, it would be necessary to have the face of armed concrete, because it is unworthy that the People's Party, which is lacking in this Parliament on European fund issues, has a hard face — and indeed, if you do not like to tell it, because it is bad news, and I will repeat it: the hard face — to pick up and say that they bring back an initiative on the issue of European funds. He says they bring back, as if we had very intense debates here about European funds thanks to the People's Party and not because the Nationalist Block Galego brought this issue over and over again to put it on the table because it is fundamental for this country, Mr Tellado. [[Applause]] In the meantime, you did two things: one was looking to the other and another was blocking that this Parliament, which is the seat of the sovereignty of the Greek people, had information, had some kind of debate. And now they're speaking according to country. The truth is, it's hard to hear without one entering a headache, Mr. Tellado. And, look, we're at an exceptional moment, with a health crisis that produces an unprecedented social and economic crisis. And you, instead of taking advantage of the instruments in this country in order to have a strong position, decided to do something else. For months now, there has been a democratic debate that respects the European funds. And it seems, above all, they have more to say. Look, you're presenting this non-law proposal because it's their job to do what they do, because there's already a point where there's such a debate, such a degree of evidence that with European funds you have a hidden agenda that nobody knows anything about, that they have to do something to hide. And, of course, I am convinced that you yourself, many of the Members of the People's Party, are ashamed of the fact that none of the German Parliament you are developing in this area is so important. And I'm going to review the chronology of the infamy, which I've already described to you on one occasion and of which there are more and more chapters. Almost three months ago, at the investment session, Mr Feijóo spoke of the European funds to refer to the concern — which we also share — about the fall of the so-called "traditional funds". Since then, zero proposals have been made to prevent that from happening. In any case, since the Galego Nationalist Block, already in that session, Mrs. Pontón has bet on a real country agreement; not like what you do, which takes the headline but with a comparison that accompanies you, Mr. Tellado. And you didn't take the glove, asked questions to the president about it, and you answered only with contempt and unilaterality. After that, we kept insisting. And on 6 October we tabled in this Parliament the proposal that there should be a specific presentation, of everyone, to address this issue and to talk about something as elementary as objective criteria, strategic projects or, for example, the relationship with the Spanish State and the Central Government. And now we see that, indeed, what the BNG warned about the recentralisation of this issue is what we have in these headlines: "Sánchez drives an administrative revolution and centralizes control of the 140 billion Europeans". I mean, the board didn't play its part, didn't listen to this group's warnings that this was going to happen and are coming to you later, Mr. Tellado. From there on, you, instead of doing your job, instead of negotiating with the central government, to which you were limited, went to be with your advertising verborrhea. Each week they had a different figure: October 8 would create 1,700 jobs through an investment of 1,300 million; eight days later we were already in 3,200 million and the creation of 18,000 jobs with seven projects; October 22 we were already in 108 projects. I tell you what I told you 15 days ago: every time we hear them, they might seem to be able to accompany CRTVG's briefings with an image of Pato Donald with the ticket-generating machine, because, of course, it wouldn't be this question, Mr. Tellado. And what does Galician Union do? So you set up a commission, which is the Board of the Board of Boards with a plotter behind it that puts Next Generation, and now they come here with a hurtful speech that this is not a political but technical issue but at the same time criticizing Mr. Sánchez saying that. And it's just that, look, you're doing exactly the same thing as Mr Sánchez, who is trying to disguise a political and strategic debate on the lines and decisions that must be made about something technical and harmless. They're doing exactly the same procedure. And we don't think that's appropriate. And you, who is from Ferrol, know perfectly well how this country goes when decisions on our strategic sectors depend solely on Madrid. And so we didn't buy this mark. You then tried to sell us the way in which Parliament's Reactivation Commission would play a role in the issue of European funds — which we are seeing as having no role on this issue —. But fortunately it's serving for a lot of questions this committee, and I don't want to take your courage, but not for something really transparent with the reality of these issues. And what we're saying since the opposition is not crazy, because in that commission there are experts going to show how you have a practice of obscurantism on this issue. Not only was it because Mr. Conde and Mr. Corgos were to be brought in and they did not say anything but because we saw experts like Mr. Lago, who questioned that this Parliament had to play a role in the issue of European funds and even referred to reports from the committees of experts we did not know, because they were not sent. We've also seen recently, in these last fifteen days of news, as the three Rectors came, the three Rectors of the three Greek universities of the seven campuses of our country! –that they have innovation centres and that something they will have to think about the potential of this country – – that they know nothing about it. You don't want Parliament to play a role, but you don't want the Greek university system to play a role either. We don't know, if there already existed that private university in Abanca, if then it would have to have a role in this matter. In any case, we have also seen more issues in this Parliament. You appeal to consensus, to dialogue, to social dialogue. Look, the social dialogue instrument in this country is the Economic and Social Council. It's by law, by law! And the Economic and Social Council has given evidence, with Mr. Hernández's appearance in this House, that he has no role whatsoever but to refer to a generic issue. It's absolutely regrettable that this is how it is. You are sovereigns, and there is no worse sign of ignorance than sovereignty. And the bad news is that they rule this country and seem to be determined that their private roadmap and their hidden agenda with the business sectors — which we don't know which they are — is what they define themselves. And of course it doesn't seem to us to be the most democratic way to deal with this issue, but not the smartest. And in view of that, we've been making constructive proposals since the zero minute. We proposed forums for debate in this Parliament, and they said no. We proposed that there be a joint committee in which Parliament itself played a role, but there were also universities, research centres, ESCs, union, social forces, etc., and they said they weren't. We proposed unquestionable objective criteria before which there should be political unanimity, such as taking into account the weight of demographics or taking into account factors such as the closure of thermals, and they said that they did not also apply the knee. We're asking for documentation and they're not sending it. It's just that, of course, I invite them to look in the mirror, because there's no way they're going through the examination of a minimally dialogative attitude as if they're coming in after here disguised as lambs asking us for some kind of dialogue. If they want dialogue, they'll have it. But the dialogue is not to present a non-law proposal with the content of an amendment to conceal that they do something while the opposition proposals fall. It's not the way to dialogue to appeal to consensus, but let the only possible consensus be to applaud them with your ears. Of course, they will not have us on such an important issue as the debate on European funds, because it will not be indifferent to Galicia's role there and because, behind that debate, there is not only a struggle for quantity, but there is a strategic debate about projects that are yes, projects that are not, the model of country that is yes and the model of country that is not. And, of course, of course, everyone has our country model aspiration and we will have differences, and we also sincerely believe that there would be margin for consensus. But, of course, consensus is not in this partial, superficial initiative that does not hide behind or the slightest will of consensus.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u72	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u73	And we won't consent to that. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u75	Thank you, President. Mrs. Presas, you confuse the vehemence with which everyone can defend their ideas with bad education. And I, of course, after we've been called out of the way, accused of telling us about milongas and that we're proud, what I can tell you is that in bad education today I'm not going to win you. That's the reality. [[Applause]] Look, I believe that your attitude, your defensive attitude in the debate of this very important initiative, what is hiding is the bad conscience, the nationalist bad conscience, because you're the ones who made Pedro Sánchez president. And Pedro Sánchez is what will punish Galicia with the distribution of these funds. So, apply the story about the share of responsibility that Ana and Adriana have about the allocation of funds that I'm sure will punish Galicia. Look, his intervention fails in the most basic. [[Murmurs.]] What the ticket machine had was not Pato Donald, it was Uncle Gilito. Starting like this, what can I tell you? Look, you are defending a government that wants to apply criteria of pure and harsh political discretion, which instead of setting up a technical committee — as the rest of Europe has done — is a political committee. And yesterday the debate was whether or not Paul Iglesias was on that committee. And what did the Galician Nationalist Block say? Nothing!, they were silent, because you are accomplices of the Socialist Government. And that's going to pursue them for the next four years. Count on it. [[Applause]] Look, at your initiative you do complex what should be easier, your amendment is confusing, mix criteria — some contradictions —, usual criteria in the distribution of cohesion funds, usual criteria for self-financing, others that you invent... They are contradictory criteria. Your amendment -- I'm sorry to tell you -- there's no way to get it. Look, of course there are reasons to distrust the government of Pedro Sanchez, many. BNG just lived it in his own flesh. Look, when your vote was necessary to invest Pedro Sánchez signed that couple of Ana and Adriana, that agreement that would solve Galicia's problems over the next decades, the Ana and Adriana agreement. Twenty years of political experience in the Welsh House, why? To make president Pedro Sánchez. Noraboa, Mrs. Pontón! And now that they no longer need them, they deny their requests and their spokesperson at each control session. Allah you have been deceived! because I believe that pact of Ana and Adriana really did not think of Galicia, I thought about how to keep Mrs. Goretti Sanmartín as vice president in parliament, the vice mayor in the Town Hall of Lugo and those governments that share with the Socialist Party. That's her mortgage, that's Mrs. Ana Pontón's backpack behind her back. Look, we're suspicious and distrust everyone. Sánchez eliminates controls to spend 700 billion euros over the next three years, that's reality. Mr. Rivera, I believe they act once again as ambassadors of Pedro Sánchez in Galicia, as I will repeat to them in the last plenary, and that is the reality. The projects are in Moncloa, why doesn't Moncloa make them public? For defending the right of industrial property, the right of intellectual property. You accuse the Socialist Government of doing the same thing that Joina does, which is protecting 108 industrial projects for our community. You ask for the consensus that your government does not offer to the autonomous communities. It's very curious how much posture they're holding. Look, Mr. Gonzalo Caballero's Socialist Party doesn't fool anyone anymore, that's the reality. You always act the same way, like footmen of Sánchez in Galicia. By the way, these days we are also witnessing an erratic behavior towards budgets, general government budgets and Galician budgets. First they praise the general budgets of the state, which lower investment in Galicia to historical minimums, and then they criticize the budgets of the Galician Union, which greatly rise its investment. They criticise budget rises and applaud budget cuts, that's the coherence of the PSdeG-PSOE leading Mr. Gonzalo Caballero. I have the feeling that in this parliamentary group you didn't see that chapter of Sésamo that distinguished between going up and down. [[Applause]] They criticise a budget that rises by 14% and applauds an budget that drops by 11%. That's what Galicia cares about PSdEG-PSOE, that's what worries her. One of two, Mr. Caballero, or you're not as brilliant an economist as you pretend to be — as you say you are — or take your hair to all the Greeks. I think it's the two things at the same time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u76	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u77	Look, we're not going anywhere. We would like there to be an essential consensus in this House. For what? To defend Galicia. They abandon the defense of their parties and add to the ones we've been defending Galicia for months since May, when we set up an expert committee of what you laugh at and make fun of in this House. You don't respect anyone. You know what's going on? That, by opposing the government of Feijóo, those who oppose both the BNG and the Socialist Party are Galicia. There you are! Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u78	Do you accept the amendments? [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Don't you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u79	We finish the debates on non-law proposals. I thought I touched the bell three times. Now I have doubts, the truth... I don't know, I think so. Three times, didn't I, did I touch it three times? All right, perfect! Then we vote the non-law proposals. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u80	We started by voting for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Maria del Carmen Rodríguez Dacosta, on the launching by the Government of Greece of a youth employment shock plan. No amendments were tabled. Vote of the Non-Law Proposition, of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Maria del Carmen Rodríguez Dacosta and three other Members, on the launching by the Government of Galicia of a youth employment shock plan. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u81	We are now voting on the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs María Leticia Gallego Sanromán, on the development by the Galician Council of a new plan of R & D+i, as well as the action to be taken on the degree of implementation of the Galician Plan innovate 2020. Both amendments are accepted. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me? Mrs Gallego, do you accept the point vote? Yes. [[Mrs. Gallego Sanromán speaks words that are not perceived.]] So, what points do you want to separate? The 1 and the 2? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Assentment.]] Let us vote, first, points 1 and number 2. Vote of points 1 and 2 of the transactioned text of the Non-Law Proposition, G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Maria Leticia Gallego Sanromán and two other Members, on the development by the Galician Union of a new plan of R & D+i, as well as the action to be taken on the degree of implementation of the Galician Plan innovate 2020. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 70. The voting is positive. As a result, these two points were adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u82	Let us now vote on the rest of the points of this non-law proposal. Vote of the transactioned text of the Non-Law Proposition, of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Maria Leticia Gallego Sanromán and two other Members, except points 1 and 2, already voted on, on the development by the Galician Council of a new plan of R & D+i, as well as the action to be taken on the degree of implementation of the Galician Plan innovate 2020. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected with the exception of points 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u83	We are now voting on the non-legislative proposal by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, on the initiative of Ms. María Montserrat Prado Cores, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to achieve a collective agreement worthy of the staff of the foundations of biomedical research in Galicia. No amendments were tabled. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Vote by point]] We then vote, first, points 1 and 3. Vote of points 1 and 3 of the Non-Law Proposition, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Ms. Maria Montserrat Prado Cores and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia to achieve a collective agreement worthy of staff of the foundations of biomedical research in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 70. The voting is positive. These two points of this proposal are therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u84	We now vote point 2. Vote of point 2 of the Non-Law Proposition, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Ms. Maria Montserrat Prado Cores and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia to achieve a collective agreement worthy of staff of the foundations of biomedical research in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. Point 2 of this proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u85	We are now voting on the following non-legislation proposal, which is from the People's Parliamentary Group and on the initiative of Mrs Paula Prado del Río. There's a transaction to which all groups have arrived. I understand it's all the groups and they'll all know it. We voted for this transaction. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Paula Prado del Río and 13 other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government and on the actions it must take to prevent deprotection and support the minor orphans for gender violence. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 70. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u86	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Ms. Olalla Rodil Fernández, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to combat gender-based violence and provide psychological attention to victims in the context generated by the coward-19. There's also a transaction between the Popular Parliamentary Group and the Galician Nationalist Block... between the three groups? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Then this transaction is known. [[Mr Prado del Río asks for a word.]] Yes, Mrs. Prado? [[Pause.]] Give a voice to Mrs. Prado's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u87	Thank you. We want to request the separate vote on points 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u88	Ask for a separate vote on points 1 and 2. Do you accept? [[Assentment.]] So, first of all, we vote on points 1 and 2. We vote. Vote of points 1 and 2 of the G.P. Non-Law Proposition. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Pontón Mondelo and eighteen other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to combat gender-based violence and provide psychological attention to victims in the context generated by the coward-19. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. These points are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u89	We vote for the rest of the points of this non-law proposition. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, except points 1 and 2, at the initiative of Da Ana Pontón Mondelo and eighteen other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the German Government to combat gender-based violence and to provide psychological attention to the victims in the context generated by the coward-19. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 70. The voting is positive. Consequently, this non-law proposal is adopted, except for points 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u90	Finally, we voted for the People's Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Miguel Ángel Tellado. Amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and to the Galician Nationalist Block are not accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira and 13 other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government for the establishment of a system of distribution of European funds based on transparency and objectivity. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 37; votes against, 14; abstentions, 19. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u91	And now I'm going to read out an institutional statement. [[Pause.]] Institutional declaration
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u92	The statement reads as follows: "The Galician Parliament, on the occasion of the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, which is commemorated on November 25, reiterates, more than one year, its firm condemnation of any expression of violence against women and of all its manifestations. Likewise, we express our full support for women who are victims of gender-based violence, their sons and daughters and their families. At the Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing in 1995, it was recognized that violence against women is an obstacle to equality, development and peace for the people, which prevents women from enjoying their human rights and fundamental freedoms. As the UN states, ‘violence against women and girls, rooted in unequal power relationships between women and men, persists as a silent and endemic crisis’. This year, in addition, the situation has been aggravated by the global pandemic that crushes us and that affects women with more intensity and concretely the structural inequality in which they find themselves, it is especially terrible for women who are victims of gender-based violence. Its eradication and elimination is a normative mandate derived from the international treaties of the United Nations and the European Union, ratified by the Spanish State, so it must be treated with the highest priority in the agendas of the various public administrations as a guarantor of women's rights. Galicia has had since 2007 a Galician Law for the Prevention and Comprehensive Treatment of Gender Violence, adopted unanimously in this Parliament. It is an advanced and in-line law with the international recommendations collected, among other instruments, in the Istanbul Convention. This Act 11/2007 represented a huge change, by broadening the definition of macho violence and including as such any violent act or assault — also sexual — whether it occurs in the public sphere or in the family or in private. Later, the State Covenant against Gender Violence, which has been unanimously validated, also made clear progress in bringing together all the political and institutional forces of the State to improve the situation of women victims and to combat an unworthy situation for any society, establishing strategies for awareness-raising and prevention, care, counselling, support and protection, always from comprehensive perspectives in all areas, such as work, education, health care, the judiciary, the police and the social sector. The elimination of violence against women is a challenge for society as a whole; a joint task that requires unitary action and maximum coordination, collaboration and cooperation, always with respect to the regime of distribution of competences in all the actions that are being developed, since the work done to achieve its eradication involves a multitude of agents. Gender violence has no place in society that we aspire to be, nor in democracy that we want to consolidate. Removing her from our lives and protecting the victims is not an option, it is an obligation. The male violence between us all, and the public administrations, we must fight it with all our means at our disposal. Thus, the Galician Parliament has been working for years to achieve changes in public policies and in the legislative field, in order to achieve some day full equality and, consequently, the elimination of any form of violence against women, which is the most contemptible manifestation of inequality between men and women. We therefore commit ourselves to continuing to work on prevention, information, counselling, protection and support for women victims of violence and their children. A democratic society cannot tolerate women being discriminated against and victims of machismo, inequality and violence; one of the main causes of violation of fundamental rights and public freedoms, totally unacceptable situations in a democratic state and law. Santiago de Compostela, November 25, 2020." [[Approved by consent.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] We continue with the agenda, in this case already with point 5th, interpelerations. La Noa Presas Bergantiños and two other members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the impact on the Greek economy of the consolidation of poverty and social exclusion and the repercussions of the cowardly crisis-19
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u93	To formulate the inquiry you have the floor to Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u94	Well, maybe we could move the conversation to another room so we could continue with the tight agenda. Good morning to all and to all. Good morning, Counselor. Today, with this interpellation by the Galician Nationalist Block, we want to focus on a question that we find to be fundamental and which we think is not sufficiently addressed by the Galician Union, which is the impact of the consolidation of poverty and social exclusion in the Greek economy and its worsening with the impact of the crisis of coward-19. Because poverty is, above all, a problem of human rights, but it is also an economic problem or, better said, it is the result of an economic system that feeds inequality instead of fighting it; therefore, since the Nationalist Block of Wales we aspire to intervene in it and change it. In this context of change, we also think that we have opportunities to make changes and to address the poverty situation of many people in a deeper and more comprehensive way. It is often true that there is too much talk about poverty from a care point of view, and we want to open our focus today, because assistance and the increase in poverty rates are a collective problem, not an individual one, and they go beyond that. Last week, precisely within the framework of the Reactivation Commission, Mrs. Eloína Ingrajeto appeared on behalf of the German Network against Poverty, and she insisted that people's lives should not be organized in councils. She pointed out with regret that on many occasions the organizations and people felt -- she said -- "that if you want to confine poverty to the Social Policy Council or social services departments." And we think you're right, that poverty is polyhedronic, and that's why today from the Nationalist Block in Wales we want to put the accent on a common denominator about the causes of poverty, which is the factor and the economic environment. You come to answer us, we feel well; the government is supportive and we believe that, in addition, you are aware of that polyedral character of the approach to poverty, but, in any case, I wanted to pretend that it is very important for us that it is also conceived as a problem from the economic point of view and that it is from the economic sphere where more solutions we can arbitrate with more and better investment, following public policies and also with fair criteria for the redistribution of resources. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos addressed the Social Policy Adviser.]] Mr. President, time doesn't work, I don't know if I could put it on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u95	I didn't.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u96	Oh, all right. We can start from scratch, if you like. [[Laughter]] I'm sorry to interrupt, but you'll understand that in a subject with so many aspects, if we don't have time orientation, it might be here hours and hours. Well, as I pointed out, today in Galicia in coward 2020, we understand that we have to go to a deep debate on this issue because we have the opportunity to change many issues in our hands and, above all, because we have a responsibility, which is to act so that the crisis we are living today does not have the same balance as the crisis that we are living in from the year 2008, because that crisis has also been an alibi for many issues to be in the opposite direction, and there is the balance of the last decade, which can be summed up in the summary that the rich are richer and the poor are poorer. In fact, I wanted to put on the table a data from the Oxfam Report that was drawn to the 2019 Davos Forum thread and that it claimed that the number of multimillionaires practically, on a global scale, had doubled; that it had doubled with an unprecedented level of wealth in the history of humanity and that, in contrast, half of humanity was on the verge of extreme poverty. In 2018, in addition, it is signed as 26 people -- 26 people! -- they possessed the same wealth internationally as the sum of the 3.800 million poorest people in the world. That's a world reality, because we live within the framework of the capitalist system, which has a global impact. But the truth is, if we go to our concrete reality, the data isn't very encouraging either. Within the framework of the Spanish state, the richest 1% accumulates almost 1⁄4 of the existing wealth. Also, if we go to the Greek level, we understand that there is evidence that what they repeat us always in every budgetary debate by the Board of Galicia of a healthy growth and a recovery of that 2008 crisis does not really correspond to what is being lived in the real Galicia. We want to insist on this because, even though the gross domestic product has grown in Galicia since 2014, we wonder if this has served to eradicate poverty. The evidence is not. We must ask ourselves whether the economic and social policies of the Galician Union were used to avoid having a more unequal Galician, and the answer is clearly not. And, in the light of that, is the data that were also synthesized in the last report, which is that in 2019, before the impact of the coronavirus, a quarter of the population of Greece, more than half a million people, was at risk of poverty or social exclusion -- the so-called Arope rate -- and that, within that room, another quarter in extreme poverty, seeing each single household in this situation less than 500 euros a month or less than 1,050 for two adults and two children. An absolutely alarming situation. In conclusion, we have to show that in this crisis of 2008 the popular classes of Greece were not recovered and that this crisis of 2008 also weakened our economic structure in many cases. That has a translation into people's lives, and it also has a translation in terms of the failure of many social policies -- and not only social -- of the Galician Union, which has been ruling over the past decade. We understand that there are structural factors, such as overweight that is increasing the weight of the service sector -- moreover, that sector of services that are more precarious and worthless added -- and that there are issues of this kind that are not sound. That, together with a framework of work built by the People's Party and the Socialist Party, is a key to the poverty situation, which is increasing again, and in addition to the crisis of coward 19 that will be multiplied. It's that having a job in this country doesn't mean not being in poverty, and the objective difficulty of having a job is a very important factor of exclusion. In fact, that crisis normalized the figure of the poor worker or worker. And together with the factor of work, we can't ignore neither the reality nor the responsibility of the Galician Union for the housing factor. The high expenditure of housing captures most of the incomes and makes that, still existing these incomes in many homes, it's not enough and that many people have to prioritize the expenditure of basic elements, such as good nutrition, and they have to pay for a housing, which, in addition, in many cases, is not worthy or anything like it. The Foesa report already warned in 2018 of residential exclusion for 35% of the population, but also for nearly 65% of the people who were excluded. In this country, we cannot ignore two factors that need to be added to this worrying situation: one is the effect of the evil called "informal economy". In this crisis we are seeing the strong concern about the sector of small and self-employed people, but we cannot ignore that many sectors of our economy too, unfortunately, thanks to the relaxed efforts of labour inspection, have in their own existence many experiences of people who did not have a job contract and who today are invisible to many extraordinary resources that we are enabling. And also, in our country, one cannot ignore a fundamental reality, which is the frailty of people over the age of 65. The data tell us that more than 300 thousand people in our country, 5,000 more than in 2018 and 2019, receive a pension whose amount is less than the minimum amount considered not to be poor. Historically, it is a question that we have always debated in this House: the problem of Greek pensions and their differential with the state. We understand that there are more signs of concern than if, for example, we see the Structural Survey at home in our country, and I no longer talk about picking up the most recent data, which are those of the third quarter of 2020, which, of course, in this context reflect an increase in homes with difficulty or much difficulty to arrive at the end of the month and a decline in those arriving easily or very easily, but I want to pretend that, if we see the historical series, what we have in recent years is a consolidation that, quarter by quarter, in some case, subjugating half the population of our country is in a position of difficulty. That's something we can't ignore because they're people who are likely to, in this great crisis, walk directly to levels of poverty that were not expected a few months before the arrival of this pandemic. And in view of this, we are concerned that we see a certain conformism in the German Government. We just received the budgets in the House. I don't want to turn this question into a debate on global budgets or the Social Policy Council in particular, but we're worried that we don't see a diagnosis, a global strategy for the whole of Galician Union to fight poverty. We see them installed in conformity and that they are not willing to take any more courageous steps, despite the incorporation of an important part in their advice to reorient policies with the aim of preventing the consolidation of poverty and social exclusion, to prevent many people who have fallen into an exclusion situation a few months ago, and, above all, to intervene also in the economic model, in active employment, housing policies and areas that go beyond their advice, to prevent the consolidation of poverty from becoming an increasing reality. And if we were worried and worried about that consolidation of nearly half the population in a delicate situation in Galicia prepandemia, we're also concerned that Galician pandemic and postpandemia is a much more worrisome reality. That's why we've come up with this series of questions that you already know. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u97	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mrs. García Martínez has the floor of the Social Policy Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Presas, good morning. The pandemic we're living in, difficult, very hard to imagine just a few months ago, is facing a formidable challenge for all of Galicia's social fabric. Today I don't want to address it, because I think it escapes from the object of this interpellation, the excellent work being done by primary health care professionals, hospital care professionals, all the teachers and, of course, all the staff of Galician senior residents, disability homes, and all the social services staff. I'd like to value the capacity that Galicia is showing to meet those who need it most. And I speak first of the great victims of the pandemic, of all those people who have lost a loved one and who can always feel the warmth of the Greek society, who always support them. I'm also talking about all those people who are suffering from the economic impact and social impact of a health pandemic, people who have lost their jobs, or who are going through a lot of trouble getting their business forward. In circumstances such is when the altruistic and solidarity spirit of a land that leaves no one behind is more clearly demonstrated; a solidarity that begins in every Welshman, in every Greek, which is channeled through the social entities of Galicia and, of course, that counts and will always count on the commitment and support of the Galician Union. Today Galicia is better prepared than ever to protect people who suffer from the social effects of this health pandemic. As you have well said last week in this Parliament of Galicia, the president of the Galician Network against Poverty, Eloína Ingerto, public institutions can't do magic either. But what we should do and what we're doing is we're committing ourselves as if we should commit an administration, which is with budgets. At the moment they need most here in Galicia, our community will have more funds than ever to fight social inclusion: more than one hundred and twenty five million euros next year 2021, which account for 4.5% more than this year 2020. With this record investment in the area of social inclusion, we can shield Risga's budget, basic income, accompany and continue to always accompany all the Greek homes that need or are moving this complex transition to the minimum vital income and also cover the holes that leave this basic income, this minimum vital income. It is a provision that, besides, as you well know, by the way, if you are implementing more difficulties and delays than all of us would like by the closure of the central government of Galicia, which has experience of surplus, accumulated experience - our technicians manage the basic benefits in a formidable way - to which they manage it. They do not let us manage the minimum vital income; they deny us that transfer of competences for reasons that, in truth, they have escaped us and always have escaped us, because we - we will reread it again and again - if this management of competences is granted to Navarra and the Basque Country, but we are denied to others, we are denied to Galicia. With this record investment in social inclusion we can increase by 35 % the funds for social inclusion aid, from EUR 3.3 million to EUR 4.5 million, which is for the needy homes and which have to face urgent costs. With this record investment in social inclusion we can continue to transfer to entities the highest order of aid to continue fighting, as they are doing well, against poverty with an budget of more than 18 million euros. With this record investment in even social we will be able to sink and face a measure that has praised the Galician Network against Poverty in this House, which is the Basic Card, which is a monetary card that has set in motion the Unity of Galicia and which has made available to the people who most needed it, at the disposal of more than eleven thousand Greek homes, to buy products of first need, outsourcing that card with the highest speed, without far-sighted procedures, with complete confidentiality and, in addition, with something that is very important, that it does not stigmatize anyone. With this record investment in social inclusion we will be able to move forward in the pioneering commitments of the Home Care Plan with 73 million euros. With this record investment in social inclusion we can also continue to maintain the prevention teams, the fight against rejections, of the Reconduce program. And 7.6 million euros will also continue to support and help Galician municipalities to include, to hire all the people who are currently receiving a basic income for them to gain experience and also gain in work practice. And with this record investment in social inclusion we can increase by about 50% our approach to Galician food banks, which are serving many people who are experiencing real difficulties. Madam Presas, ask me if the German Government is going to rectify it. I understand that, in the light of the data I am transferring to this Parliament today, what we must do today is continue to persist in a policy of social inclusion, which is really giving its fruits; fruit such as we are one of the six communities that since the beginning of the last crisis has been able to reduce the rate of people at risk of poverty; fruit such as that in the last Galician legislation it was able to reduce at more than one point the Arope rate, which is below the national average; and fruit like that we are one of the autonomous communities with a lower rate of severe material shortage. Galicia is getting less and less homes to suffer from, but, in the face of surviving circumstances like those we're living with this pandemic, we work together and we work with more force than ever. And, of course, when we talk about poverty, when we talk about people who are at risk of social exclusion, we will never, never, ever be satisfied. We'll always keep working and standing by the cannon so that fewer families in Galicia are getting hurt. I sincerely believe that -- the data is also that way -- that we are going the right way. We must persist on this path, we must continue, of course, always improving, but we will also have to do it together and we will have to do it by hand. There is an instrument to articulate this necessary collaboration between social entities, between the municipalities and the Galician Union, which is the Single Social Agenda. This pioneering roadmap and adopted in 2016, and of which 96% of its commitments have already been fulfilled, it is time for it to be renewed, and for this reason now, that the electoral cycle has moved to the calm necessary also to deal with these kinds of issues, I believe that it is necessary that we all work, because social exclusion does not know of barriers or administrative borders. In fighting it, the only way to get the best result is to add up all the efforts. That's why I can move forward that before the end of the year they will be renewed and jobs will be reactivated towards the indispensable action of the Single Social Agenda, so that it can be useful to face the new challenges arising from the pandemic; some remains that are not only of autonomous competence, nor are they only of municipal competence, nor of course are they solely within the competence of social entities, although they are all developing truly admirable work to give agile responses to people who need it most. The social challenges arising from the pandemic are the competence of Galicia, throughout Galicia. That's why I really think there's only one way to stay up to what we demand and what our people are asking us to do: that we are always close to the people who need it most. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u99	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] You have the floor, on behalf of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u100	Thank you, Mr. President. You said, Mrs. Garcia, in your speech, questions that seem worrying to us, because I am a lack of truth, objective truth, data, and because I am, in addition, irresponsible being you responsible for social policy. I insist that for us this problem does not have to be addressed entirely only from the area of social policy, but, of course, you say that Galicia is getting fewer people who are going through it wrong, when the objectivity of the data says that in 2019 nearly a quarter the Greek population has increased that goes wrong - I gave the data before - 24.3%, and when regarding 2018 to 2019 it had increased and from 2017 to 2018 had increased. So, of course, we can play to look at the Arope rate as it suits us: if it suits us, since 2016; if it suits us, from 2008 rather than since 2009, or from 2009 instead of since 2008, but I think the problem is a big one so that we shouldn't fall into that question. Because the data can actually try to pervert to support the arguments, but I believe that reality is what it is. You can't ignore it and no one can predict that with the impact of the cowardly crisis we're going to have today less people who are going through it badly than we had yesterday. In fact, every day that's going on surely we're not being able globally to avoid it that way, and it's logical. So, of course, we think they have to rectify their global policy, the whole government, for a fundamental issue. You insist a lot -- you did it too -- that Galicia is better; well, you said she was better prepared than ever, or better prepared than ever. The Government on other occasions said that Galicia is more prepared today than it was in 2008 to face a crisis of these characteristics, and it is not so; it is not only because the pandemic of the cavern is not just a financial crisis, but because our country, our homes would not recover from the brutal impact it had in 2008, which it had in the transformation, in addition, of the structure of the population and that it had in the transformation of the economic structure. We are not better economically, and all we could take advantage of is that Galicia falls more slowly than the state falls; but now, well, the experience of 2008 -- and that's also what economic agents and objective forums say -- is that we also recovered more slowly. So we should be taking advantage of time and urgency, which we believe is what you're not doing, instead of sailing into conformism. In recent years too, the public protection system has had its problems, and it will also have them in the coming years with conditionality that will have aspects such as European funds. And that doesn't stop us -- I already told you that I didn't want to make this a budgetary debate, but I don't mind getting into that issue either -- I recognize positive issues. We agree with the Galician Network against Poverty that the Basic Card is a good instrument, in which it is a useful tool that does not appeal to assistanceism, which does not include stigma about the person who employs it, and we think it is important, but it does not cease to be an emergency measure, a patch, and I don't mean it with a pejorative sense, but I want to emphasize that the problem is larger, structural, and the ultimate goal must be to change that situation, that instead of 11,000 people using that card tomorrow there are 1,000 or less, to simplify it in a graphical way. You have boasted of your budgets, and you will already be assessed in concrete terms in the corresponding commission, but, in any case, we also see issues that concern us in those budgets and which will be exposed. It's true that if you look at Risk, you can't expect anything else. I also appeal here to those who have a lot of urgency to process another type of legislation. We are waiting for you to put on the table how to make them compatible Risk and minimum income vital in the medium term and how we can bet as a society to convert that into a great social security income in our country and be ambitious and ambitious. In that sense, I especially like you to quote Navarre and Euskadi here. I also want to quote the data from the latest report on minimum incomes for 2019. What do you tell us? That a person in poverty has eight times more options to receive a minimum income in Navarre or the Basque Country than in the rest of the Spanish state. And do you know that you have Navarre and that you have Euskadi that you don't have Galicia? So a proper farm and economic sovereignty, and that's why we insist so much that the two debates are linked. I invite you to take the example of Euskadi and Navarra. We'll always have them on their side to ask for the skills of management in Galicia, we've already explained it over and over again, but we'll also ask you for courage and self-investment. We bet on improving the instruments on the table. The truth is, patching tips doesn't look like the line. With regard to the question that you were talking about the budgets of the council, we are also surprised that, for example, the program of extraordinary aid for inclusion increases one million exclusively within the global framework of one hundred million people who increase you and that a program such as the improvement of coordination in the fight against the inequality of local corporations does not increase, in the sense that it seems that it has the Board of Galicia to remove the councils of our country...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u101	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u102	And I'm just finishing up with a last thought, Mrs. Garcia. We will bring positive measures to the thread of this interpellation, but if we told you yesterday from the BNG that demography has to do more with the economy than with birth, today we also tell you that the solution to poverty has much to not focus only on existentialism and also on changing the general model to which we have to go and which goes beyond your advice. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u103	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mrs. García Martínez has the floor of the Social Policy Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Presas, this pandemic is making manifest more clearly than ever that poverty and social exclusion can come at any moment and they can knock on the door without warning; they arrive and there is no culprit, and to fight them it is necessary to have all the right tools. These tools are not achieved either day after day, but they are the fruit of many years of intense work in such an important and sensitive area as social exclusion. You also talk to me about this amendment to Galicia's Social Inclusion Act, which regulates Risk. We agree that we have to amend the Act of Social Inclusion, but you well know that in the vital minimum income the Central Government is still making continuous changes; therefore, as long as the regulation of the minimum vital income is not closed, we will not be able to adapt the Law of Social Inclusion of Galicia to the regulations. The Galician Union is undoubtedly destined to fight poverty twice as much money as it invested in the year 2009 or that was invested this year here in Galicia. We went to 125 million euros this year 2021, when in 2009 there were 66.4 million euros. And if you ask me if that's enough, I say no; of course not, that's not enough. There's only one person in Galicia who's having a hard time, we can't ever get satisfied. The Galician security network against social exclusion is now stronger than ever. The 9,397 people who perceive Risga this month have more support to get out of this situation thanks to the creation in 2019 of two plugins to improve socio-laboral reintegration. At times of greatest need, the Galician Union has the greatest support, so we have launched this Basic Card, with amounts of 450, 600 and 900 euros; a monetary card with more than 14.6 million euros and more than 11,000 Greek homes, where 20,000 people live. This Basic Card, as I said in the previous intervention, is an urgent aid, almost immediately, and does not stigmatize anyone. In addition, during the toughest months of the pandemic, we have done everything we need to speed up and facilitate access to Risk to more than 2,000 people. The Galician Union will always continue to work for Galician social inclusion, because to achieve a more just society is not confined to the field of social inclusion, but we also work to make Galician a model at the national level in terms of conciliation, with that gratuitousness in children's schools, with this consolidation of children's homes in the Italian countryside or with the adoption of the first law of demographic impulse at the national level. We also want to continue to strengthen, as it could not be otherwise, the care of our seniors with more homes of the largest in rural Galicia 100 per cent free of charge, with more professional care at home or with the construction of seven better homes at European level. We also want to continue to offer more opportunities to younger people to continue to train themselves, to always show their talent and to engage in different actions on volunteering. Madam Presas, don't tell us we're conformists, because we're not, and because we realize that there's still a lot of work to be done. We are willing to continue this journey all the way to the end without rest, until we are sure that all the Greek families have a home and have incomes that allow them to live a decent life. Every family who is in a situation of social exclusion or who is at risk of suffering presents a challenge to the different institutions of Greece, and not only from now on, but from time to time. Adding the accumulated efforts over all these years, and with the additional reinforcement of all these months of health pandemic, we will be able to meet one of the great collective goals of our land, of Galicia, and that the Greeks and the Greeks who never need us, are never alone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u105	Thank you very much, Counselor. We moved on to the next interpellation. Change in the development of the plenary session
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u106	You know there's a change in the agenda. First of all, the last of the interpellations will be substantiation to 5.3. Interpellation of the Mercedes Complaints Zas and two other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the policy of the Government of Greece in relation to the impact of covid-19 on the cultural sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u107	To make an inquiry, Mrs. Queixas Zas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u108	Good morning. Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, Counsellor for Education, Culture and University. As the months pass, the pandemic is showing them its most faithful and complete portrait, also the cruelest and most devastating, in the face of as many uncertainties and fears as we continue to sum up day by day. We already have, among ourselves, the negative of a photograph: on the one hand, painfully, in irrecoverable human losses that we will never have; and on the other hand, highly worrying, even dramatic, in social, labor and economic losses, of which in the BNG we will never give up in seeking and promoting alternative policies of viability. One of the sectors that first fell in that strange 13th of March at 00:00 hours was undoubtedly the cultural one; and not only because of the long weeks of confinement, but because of the progressive management in the escalation, by the confusion and arbitrariness in applying the health protocols to cultural spaces, by the unjustified chain of cancellations, of cancellations, which have invalidated the need to socially visualize that culture is indeed safe and by the condemnation of the disappearance of multiple cultural projects in the face of null economic, extraordinary and urgent care that deserves a primary good, an essential good, as is culture in a limited situation as we are living. Eight months later — eight months — culture is still not on the horizon of the priority strategy of the cultural reactivation path for this People's Party government. Because only words and gestures are not enough, we need committed actions and to the extent of the generosity with which the cultural sectors have also taken care of our health in this pandemic. With his profession, with his professionalism — we never forget — workers of culture exercised from the multiple branches of the tree of the Greek culture entertained our time, dialogued with us, opened training channels, knowledge and shared their work so that the health distance — and consequently also social — was raised with a smile, a recital, a conversation, a song, a magic, a video clip, etc. Eight months later we have quite illustrative reports on what is the reality of the culture sector that has been forced to stop. And they'll say, yes, of course, like so many others. Of course, it is, but also thanks, driven to disappear all these months by political inaction, not by inaction of the cultural agents themselves, of which we have well seen their intense and immense ability to adapt and constantly reinvent the new formats that the situation demands and allows. Last July, the Council of Culture published -- we've talked about it here in a previous plenary -- the Barometer of the Greek Culture I; an X-ray of which is the current state of the Greek cultural companies since the crisis of the coronavirus began. Together with the cultural sectors, in the Galego Nationalist Block we aspired that the conclusions of this header study were solid arguments that demanded that urgent attention from the Government of the People's Party and reactivated as soon as that rescue plan, that plan of care that the sector needs, because culture, that for the Galician Nationalist Block is that essential asset, that first-needed asset — which, of course, you did not want from the People's Party to adopt in this Chamber recently — represents figures, figures and letters that we must put at the point of view of the many serious consequences of this pandemic, at the same level as many other productive, economic and employment sectors. Let us not forget that in this report in July, if we were given the figure of 54% of firms in the inactive cultural sector, or that almost 40% had requested ERTE; especially in the field of performing arts, almost 83% of these companies remained inactive, etc. For not spending too much time on data breakdown, because they're accessible to all of you, I'm going to synthesize two conclusions that seem decisive to me to act as a starting point. The first is that the crisis of the Covid-19 has had a huge negative impact on our cultural ecosystem, especially because we were already starting — taking into account — a situation of enormous weakness and precariousness — not the words of this Member or of the BNG Parliamentary Group, but are collected in this report of the Galician Culture Council. And the second conclusion — which is also in this report — says that the professional structures of the Greek culture — we never forget it either, mostly autonomous, micropemes and social cooperatives — are facing a context in these months where it is no longer just a matter of losing income and resources, but rather a struggle for survival itself. And that's how we've seen how many of these companies have been on their way in these last few months. A reality that must be addressed urgently, and named and invoked from the Galician Culture Council, but which is again ratified even more this October in the new study Statistical Context of the cultural field. The conclusions of this second report — I insist last month, of October — are that "the forecast of developments in the coming months for the whole of the productive system of culture is that it will have a more severe impact than the whole of the economy" — again I read literally, are not interpretations of this parliamentary group or of this honourable Member —. That's why we understood that we should transfer these questions to the Government. We need to know what he does from these reports, from these studies, what reaction measures and what shock plan is putting in place, because, at the moment, we haven't seen any of them yet. And we also need to know that strategies for coordination, communication and dialogue are finally open to cultural sectors and cultural agents. And we moved these questions -- it's true, I say now -- with great concern in view of the experience that accompanies us in the last decade when culture budgets have dropped up to 54%. In 2018 the Greek Culture Diagnosis. Data for a cultural strategy in the 21st century — once again we appeal to the Galician Council of Culture — offered a global diagnosis as a starting point to open a new time so necessary and urgent as a defendant in the Greek cultural sectors. Well, a year later, in 2019, you compromised a mediated hyperannounced Strategy of the Greek culture 2021; a very apparent suit for a body too naked, as is the situation in which our culture is, and of course, nothing else we knew once the focus turned off the lights of the great media headlines. They will perhaps want to answer us by justifying that catalogue of good actions and proposals from the Plan of Activation of the cultural and tourist sectors; a document of the past month of May, in our view, inconsistent between the initial diagnosis of the strengths of relevance of Greek culture and the measures to confront, to respond to a context of crisis covered as what we are living and that every day we further contrast its effects and consequences. A plan that disregards the most basic priorities of those who have been forced to stop, to remain in absolute inactivity for so long as it continues and does not promote direct assistance, specific assistance so many months later, but rather limited and conformed to regrouping in most of its previous measures. So we continue to ask questions also to the thread of this strategy: what was it about the Law of performing arts? The mescinated law they announced? What happened to the Audiovisual Law? For when? Where did the necessary review of the Book and Reading Law go? What has been, since 2006, of the Pending Reading Promotion Plan? In fact, it produces so much shame on the part of a government that it separates itself from the central importance of reading society as a companion in the formation of values, of social cohesion; a basic tool for dialogue, an alternative of healthy leisure and a mediating action in society, because of those advertisements of mirrors, of that strategy of immobilising marketing, so that it seems to be done, we only have the fixed picture of a government that does not prove to be up to the cultural fortress that gives it its own identity, by the way, as the Government of Wales and not as a government of any other place in the world.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u109	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u110	So now — to finish — when you take the floor, Mr. Counsellor, look at the House as the eyes of our culture people and please present to them a cultural project that is also a life project for her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Complaints. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the answer, the Councillor for Culture, Education and University, Fr. Román Rodríguez González.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Complaints, well, the truth is I share part of the diagnosis you have posed in this intervention. Obviously, the world changed a few months ago, we all know that. And I also share that a matter that is as important to the country as culture is not only to deal with declarations, in other words, that it is very essential — as some very significant public charges have been made in Spain — but rather with resources, programs, projects and accompanying the sector. I also share with you that it is essential that culture be a safe place. I think there was a bet decided on by the entire Greek society that culture was a safe place and that culture followed. I do not, of course, share what you are proposing, as a partisan key, speaking of a political inaction by the Galician Union, on the one hand, in this case, of the Self-Government. In contrast, I believe that there is, frankly, wrong, in the sense that you know that there exists—just say— a shock plan that has been put at its moment and also knows that in other autonomous communities or in significant municipalities or other significant institutions in the country, nothing has been done at all. I think that's a point in our favor. Of course, we, from the very first moment, in that month of March of so many months ago, the truth is that we understood that it was necessary, that it was essential, to start working urgently and to support the cultural sectors. At that time it was a councillor of Culture and Tourism, and we had a basic and fundamental goal, which was to maintain employment, cultural employment, also tourism at that time, and maintain activity. That was the basic goal that was set in motion to act as diligently as possible. We knew that culture is a vulnerable sector -- we knew it -- and it was essential to start working immediately, as we did. We've explained it in this House. We were the first autonomous community in Spain to put in place a plan to reactivate the cultural sectors. We approved it at the end of April and discussed it in this Parliament in the middle of May; it expanded in July with new resources and made available a shock plan of nearly twenty-six million and a half. I can tell you that other autonomous communities have not requested it. Why? Because we fixed a roadmap. What do we mark on that road map? So we basically mark very clear targets: First, save employment and save the cultural industry. It's fundamental, I think we share it. The second is to promote and promote the consumption of cultural products. I think we can share it, too. The third is to promote creativity and promote cultural production, obviously in a different way, in different formats. And the fourth was strengthening programming structures and distribution structures from a business perspective, which was fundamental for culture to continue working. A few weeks ago, about a month and a few weeks ago, we also presented in this House the situation of this plan. We were saying at that time that we had almost 80% of the same thing going on. Today, a month and a minute later, I can say in this House that we have about 95% of the measures already implemented or implemented. Since then, from 7 October, we have increased the culture budgets by around 5 million euros and we are practically investing 24 million euros in this shock plan. You made a great fincapé in the study of the report of the Galeg Culture Council. Obviously, it was already perceived in March and April that this would be so. In fact, in the plan itself we included an initial analysis of the negative impact that the health crisis was generating in the cultural world. We have made a report of the impact, prepared in this case by the University of Santiago de Compostela. Not that it was a surprise, whether you didn't know or something, or something unique and unique about Galicia or the cultural sector, but about many other sectors and of course the whole of Spain. I think we were the ones who, as I say, were to draw forward an ambitious plan of reactivation that obviously sought to reduce the risk that we already realized many months ago that we would have and, to some extent, we had perfectly identified. Many things have been done next to this plan. Obviously, there's a lot left to do yet, but I would also like to highlight a number of questions and data to be seen, with certain data, not with perceptions, what is the situation we have right now. And I'm just going to focus on what was pushed from October 7 to today. In the audiovisual sector, we weighed EUR 2.5 million in 20 new productions. We increased this budget over the previous year by 25%; we mobilised 19 million euros. In the stage sector, we estimated half a million euros this month for 38 companies, 4 rooms, with special attention to dance; 100,000 euros were devoted to 12 projects like this. At the external projection of Greek culture, EUR 460,000 has been allocated this past month; 400 shares, functions and activities in 17 countries. In libraries, the help to network libraries was €850,000, dedicated to the acquisition of news to improve bibliographic collections. This meant a 54% increase over the previous year, reaching and impacting 200 municipalities. In contemporary art, we dedicated 200,000 euros to buying works to creators and also 80,000 euros to be able to attend the fairs by the galleries. In total, in contemporary art, 600,000 euros. In the field of the book, the aid to bookshops was €150,000. And we continue this past month with multiple actions in microformats that we build around the bottom of the Xacobeo Project and that have made it possible -- they're making it possible -- to extend culture across the entire Greek geography. In short, there's a fact that I think shows you're working, that there's a determined bet that culture is still working, and that there's enough resources invested to reach 4,500 concrete actions. One specific fact: they have moved from this plan to 4,500 cultural actions. For example, in the performing arts -- which you quoted -- this year we are performing and we are going to perform about 900 functions, 887; a record number, above the previous years. In musical concerts, more than 480 concerts were held; obviously, in different formats, in different ways; some, unfortunately, only in streaming. But that was what we had to do, new formats to allow us to inject economic liquidity into the business sector and to the workers who live, in this case, on music or stage arts. In very scattered cultural activities, very varied: the Xacobeo Project -- I said it before -- with about 400 actions in microformats. We're going to push -- we're going to present it in Culturgal -- a campaign of cultural consumption, of consumer promotion, because, of course, the best way to help culture is to consume culture, without a doubt, for people to buy cultural products that access culture. We are going to present in Culturgal, as I am already saying this week, a campaign of awareness-raising, of collective awareness of the importance of buying culture, of consuming culture. We'll also continue to bet and work in favour of culture. And when it comes to budgets, you have to put the data on the table. We have — and we will see it on 10th in this House, in the corresponding committee — a very ambitious draft budget. In the field of culture, we have a budget of EUR 94 million, which is an increase over the previous year of almost 30%, 27.4%, more than 20 million new for cultural investment. And, of course, in the field of Xacobeo, there is also a lot of cultural action, but it will be executed, in this case, by another area of administration. Finally, I think it is important to demonstrate policies with facts, with clear, concrete and precise data. The perceptions are very important, but much more important are the specific and precise data I just said. And, I insist, we are aware of the difficulties facing the cultural sectors. We perceive them at the moment, we identify them at the moment, we advance, we build a plan of help, of shock, so we can keep culture alive, we foster new formats, new ways of doing things, and the data are there. We'd like a lot of municipalities not to be caught up in -- they've had a lot of stick to celebrate many cultural acts, lots of glues in many cases -- and we'd like to keep checking that culture is a fundamental part, one of the most lively parts of this country, that had a great adaptability...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u113	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u114	Obviously, we're going to continue working, as we've been doing so far, and the concrete and practical materialization of this support are the budgetary data I just presented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u115	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the reply, Mrs. Complaints.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u116	Congratulations, Mr. President. The counsellor qualifies my intervention as a partisan attitude of his own or derived from perceptions. It is your opinion and your appreciation, which, of course, respect. What I can tell you is that our words are not abstract perceptions, nor are they individual or personalist, based on data. I don't think we're going to question any of those who are here with strict objectives of a well-informed source such as the Galician Council of Culture and which also come from another well-informed source, which are the cultural agents, the people who are building the Galician culture. So that's our partisan attitude, to bring here what is the reality of the Greek people, not that which seems to us in our personal capacity, neither from an interested or individualist position. [[Applause]] You talk about numbers and you seem to want to give the impression that we have to surprise ourselves and thank that flap or that little strip of numbers. In any case, what they serve is to testify that, precisely, we have a powerful Greek culture, with immense potential, alive, with many strengths in the field of creation and also with many capacities for work and adaptation to any kind of adversity. That's what we have to put into value and that's the main criterion and objective to reinforce much more of what is a plan of shock and attention to Greek culture. You spoke practically in figures. I wanted to talk to you a little bit more letters, because that's my scope, you know, right? Well, if you recognize, as you have just acknowledged here, that the culture of Galicia is fundamental, I don't understand why very few days ago they didn't want to vote in favour of that statement in this Greek Parliament of Greek culture as essential and as paramount, because you know that would really condition greater attention and a greater staffing of rights for what is creation and cultural management. [[Applause]] So I can never understand incoherence, and less in times of severe crisis as we are living in, and in a very special way, although it is very dark, very silent, too, especially from the media, in the field of Greek culture. You appeal to the May reactivation plan. I hope you will also, as it corresponds, make a good plan, after a diagnosis, a set of measures and an economic endowment; I also hope for evaluation, because it's something you don't want to start learning to do, which is to objectively evaluate whether those plans that we've probably made with the best of intentions and with the best of wills have given the results that we initially set as targets. I really expect an objective and complete evaluation of that plan. Because I can remember -- and you also remember it and all of us here -- is that it was a plan that was absolutely answered by the different sectors of Greek culture -- I think there is no sign of this country that is missing, really, and you know it as I do -- from the field of cinema, plastic and visual arts, stage arts, literature, music; there were the vast majority of the collectives, associations, organizations linked to the different cultural sectors. There were a lot of cultural agents missing in that plan: artists, techniques, many that weren't directly linked to the artist scheme and then they couldn't access any kind of help or join any plan. They know perfectly well that they work in many of our sectors of culture with an intermittent character that sometimes makes it difficult, nullifies or makes it impossible to access any kind of help. I ask you to take into account the conditions of Galician culture, which are also their working conditions and margins, by the time we tell them they have a summons. We cannot draw up calls for aid or reactivation plans that do not take into account the starting points of which the cultural sector is, of which their conditions are. So many groups were missing in this plan, Counselor, that you yourself have publicly recognized that the plan had gaps. Sometimes being the first doesn't mean doing things right or better than anyone else; they get worse than nobody, because things have to be done over time, well thought-out and well. What do they do like that? When we talk, when we talk to the sector, not only when we call them on a website and they listen to us, but when we really spend our time and effort sitting at many tables and, above all, and most importantly, what the culture sector lacks, and it's not the only one to listen. Let's listen, then we'll talk, and then we'll set up, with the best possible consensus, all those measures.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u117	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u118	Well, he didn't mention anything here that I was expecting, which was that we would make these announcements that he also made several times a bonus of Greek cultural consumption, that huge demand of the sector that remains unattended. As they continue without being properly cared for -- because they don't still exist today, and it also gives a little bit of sense to say it -- direct help to creation. There is no cultural industry, there is no cultural management process in this country if the first step is to be created. If there's no author, if there's no author who really believes, there's absolutely nothing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u119	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u120	And I don't want to be wrong — and I'm done, Mr. President —
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u121	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u122	...but if there's no kind of help for anyone who starts the process, it really gives me very little good to think about real support for the culture process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Complaints. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the closure of the interpellation, the Councillor for Culture, Education and University.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u124	Thank you very much. The truth is that, Madam, we share many points of view; others, of course, do not. We share that culture is fundamental to the country, but above all it is fundamental to people who live in culture, which are about 30,000. I think that's a fundamental piar. You base all your argument on the report that recently presented the Galeg Culture Council. All this describing this report was already known, it's known, and it's nothing unusual that happens in Galicia, it happens everywhere, everywhere in Spain and the world. And it's nothing exclusive; unfortunately, it's nothing unique in the cultural sector; many sectors are in a similar situation. Now, you think you're starting to make a mistake when you start trying to focus on a complex, difficult situation of a lot of professionals, in which it's the blame of the self-government. I think it's a bit lost the radar of the matter. And you raise a number of questions that I would like to clarify, because I'm sure we have more points in common than differences. You talk about letters, and you accuse me of numbers. I'm also a letter, I'm also more letters than figures, but, of course, when you question the action of a government, it's okay with the literature, it's okay, it's fine with the lyric, it's fine, but you have to put data on it. [[Applause]] You think we have to evaluate the plans. I did this here, presenting specific, specific actions, with direct economic resources, for these actions in different fields of culture and I proposed the results: 500, 400, 800 according to each of the actions and according to which they served those actions. Obviously, the formats are absolutely different. I had, I won't say luck or privilege, because it was a small pity, but I attended the Milladoiro concert with 30 people; a pity!, a pity! But if we don't, like musicians, artists can get income? And not only the musicians and artists, but also the sound technicians, the light technicians, the mountaineers, a whole chain of professional value that is around a cultural activity. I also put here the number of functions, for example, in performing arts, which are more than last year, though, obviously, with much less public. It is also true that there are new formats. And, of course, you here question the plan. He came to say there was no dialogue. Look, I was at 65 meetings in 65! Well, I've been talking to 65 agents -- in fewer meetings, sorry, but 65 agents. [[Murmurs.]] We told them because they were denying that there was participation. We heard them all. And they said that about 70% of the proposals made by cultural agents -- which we talked about and heard -- we heard them all and we didn't just listen to one of them, we didn't listen to only those we wanted to hear, we listened to them all, we didn't look at anyone's license plate -- we introduced them, we applied them and we developed them. You're talking about young creators. Man, if we're working on something, it's not in the creators, it's in the Thursdays that have to start. Yesterday, it was presented Scenes of Change, which has a bet on the youth of fundamental performing arts, by new artists, in the City of Culture. I think it's data that's really there. And, of course, there are two ways of seeing things here, Madam: either we stay in the lyrical or we stay in the prose. And prose is economic resources for the cultural sectors. Without going further, the Ministry - and I don't want to make criticism, because you will say: no, no, it's a PSOE minister - the PSOE minister, did a fantastic act declaring the essential culture and it remained so wide, it accomplished. But no, no, that's not enough. That's just a statement. What to do is to provide projects, provide data and provide economic resources. The Government of Spain made a plan after our contribution on average per person-objective 1.5 euros. Do you know how much Galicia gave? More than 9, almost 10, euros. Some declared culture essential and put 1.5 euros per person, others put 10 euros per person. That's the difference between a loud statement, which is very good, and another one that's doing projects listening to the demands of all the professionals who wanted to talk to us. Finally, as I said, we have a big challenge ahead of us. I would also ask you - and I would ask you here, in the House of Representatives of Galicia, in the Parliament of Galicia - to make the effort that we all make, because the public expenditure can be thought of as coming from the Union, and not just from the Union. The Galician Culture Council itself, which you quoted, tells us how the expenditure of cultural programming is structured. The General Administration of the State has around 13% of cultural expenditure, autonomous communities, around 22% of cultural expenditure and local administrations, municipalities and deputies, around 64% of cultural expenditure, fortunately. But we've seen, I think sometimes with a lot of disgust...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u125	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u126	...as many local administrations have canceled a lot of acts by appealing to health responsibility, which we understand, but without giving alternatives. No one here says that if you continue to do what was done, but rather to do it in a different way, and that that cancellation is replaced by a different act, by a different production, which gives you the possibility of the objective that you are looking for, which is to transfer economic resources to the cultural sector...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u127	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u128	... to families living in culture. And in that, Your Honor, regardless of whether there are different criteria and different visions, I think we share the background, although, of course, we demonstrate the facts with letters, but also with figures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u129	Thank you, Counselor. We suspended the meeting until 4:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u130	Good afternoon. Let's restart the session. Interpellation by Juan Carlos Francisco Rivera and Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Government of Greece in relation to the economic crisis and the social situation generated by the covid-19
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u131	Mr. Francisco Rivera has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u132	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Count, good afternoon to all and to all. This is an interpellation that we present at the end of August, with a situation and macroeconomic data that we believe were adjusted to the reality of the moment and which, of course, worsened over the last few months as a result of the pandemic itself. But the substantive debate is still in force, and it is the need to take action, to react from the Galician Union by taking economic measures to alleviate the effects the pandemic is having on the country's economy. The situation -- finally, it's known -- is dramatic and it's agony, especially for certain sectors, as a result of a decision by the Galician Union, from the clinical, unquestionable point of view, that we do not question, of confinement of the municipalities. Refinement which logically leads to the closure of economic activity related to a sector or to a number of specific sectors, especially those linked to hospitality and leisure. At the same time, other types of sectors — which on their day are badly damaged — are also affected in the area of restoration and hospitality, as I say. In that area, 12,800 businesses remained until today — indeed, confinement has been lifted in some municipalities — closed; 12,800 businesses, which mean, in terms of employment, in terms of workers in that sector, between 40,000 and 45,000 people. To this situation of the agonism of the sector — in this case of the hospitality — is added the economic inertia of the last few months, with a clear drop in consumption and a contraction in consumption and with a loss of the income capacity available to the families themselves. Finally, with a situation itself, without the need to close the sector itself, very complicated and very complex. The data of the Galician Union itself, which is published in relation to macroeconomic data, of course, reflect that the German GDP will fall at the end of the year by approximately 9.7%. This, by itself, reflects the intensity of what is happening in Galicia. Obviously, in view of this situation -- we told you in all the interventions we have had -- nobody has magic solutions; and we didn't even ask the Galician Council to adopt magic solutions. Impossible. In a situation of this drama, it is clear that there are no immediate solutions, that there are no immediate compensation solutions that avoid everything that is suffering from the country's economy. But if there is an obvious coincidence in all economic agents, in all specialists in this field, in which immediate, expansive and agile public action is a determining factor in the containment of the economic crisis. In this sense, we need — and I believe that the Galician Union should do so — to use all public spending capacities, all public indebtedness capacity and all public resources to combat the economic crisis. I think there has to be a reaction, a much more agile reaction, at least, more depth, more silence, in the Galician Union; a reaction that occurred in other institutions, Mr. Conde. It has occurred in the field of European institutions when the pandemic explodes, by adopting mechanisms or by using mechanisms that were available — such as the Mede — or by creating new mechanisms, or by optimizing the budget, or even by flexibleing the Stability Pact, or, in this case, by already putting into operation — or by trying to put multi-millionaire funds into operation — in the service of the country's economy. Funds that, in the case of the Spanish state as a whole, will obviously be positive if we are able to execute them. Also in Galicia. The 140 billion — 70,000 million grants — reveal the colossal magnitude of public administrations and economic agents to implement these funds, to provide projects that are able to assume such funds. With regard to this of the European funds, we were here this morning to propose an initiative, and if we would like to know what funds the Galician Union has sent to the National Recovery Plan, which are those one hundred and eight projects of which it speaks to the Galician Union capable of taking up European funds, because it is important that they are known not only by economic agents but by the whole of the country, represented in this case by its Members and Members. That doesn't mean we're advertising it, it can obviously be from a confidential point of view. But I believe that the German Parliament must know these projects. We must have a country position, Mr. Count, on this matter. It is not claimed, as Mr Tellado did — good afternoon, Mr Tellado — this morning and then we have a destructive debate on Mr Sánchez. We, Mr. Count, understand that the Galician Union must react much more than it is doing. They reacted to the autonomous communities, some already establishing aid to the most affected sectors at the beginning of the pandemic, and a second wave providing aid to the already confined sectors, such as the hostel, in other autonomous communities. I can give you many: Catalonia, Basque Country, Castile and Lion, Asturias, those you understand, and those that exist. They reacted to the councils, Mr. Count, using their budgetary capacity, limited in many cases; small and also larger councils, using their budgetary capacity to finance economic activity, which is not their responsibility. In return, the Galician Union does not transfer a single euro to the municipalities. Because the Galician Union has received EUR 23 million from the state to fight against the pandemic — specifically for social actions, it understands — and of these EUR 23 million has not reached the councils. And, of course, the state reacted, of course. He reacted by constituting and building a real social shield - I will not give him the data because you already have them - in the form of the provision of the ERTs, autonomous, in the form of funding through the ICO or in the form of aid to the economic sectors most punished by the economic crisis. At the same time, the Ministry of Economic Affairs is designing a EUR 8.500 million plan today precisely to combat economic effects in a particular sector, such as the hospitality industry. And what is the reaction of the Board, Counselor? We don't criticize that the Galician Union did anything; of course it did, of course it did. What we're saying is that the Galician Union reacted, at an early stage of the pandemic, in a very faint, very slow, little agile, little effective, with few measures. And now that the situation gets even more complicated, of course, they've made decisions. We're talking about a 70 million-euro plan, and what's published in the CEO is a 30 million-euro self-help plan, and a 3 million-euro funding line. You're talking about a 17 million hostel plan, and I'm meeting you at La Voz in Galicia yesterday, with Mr. Feijóo talking about 100 million euros. I understand all this, but in this confusion strategy it would be convenient for you to clarify whether, in fact, it is EUR 100 million to help the inn or EUR 17 million, because of that agreement with the inn industry, of course, some associations have been found and it is precisely not because the plan is excessively boisterous to the sector. In that sense, Counsellor, let us make this inquiry in an honest way, trying to get the Galician Council to respond to what measures it is taking in relation to the current economic situation, to the current crisis situation that is experiencing the whole economy, especially the hostess, but also the travel agencies and the sellers who are engaged in walking activity, which in this country are many and who have seen, as a result of the confinement measures, absolutely limited their negotiating activity. More than 8,000 self-employed people are engaged in street sales throughout the country; walkers who, as a result of the confinement measures in the municipalities, are impossible to carry out their work. So we use it to answer all these questions as far as possible and then in the second round we will comment on something else. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u133	Thank you, Mr. Francisco Rivera. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Response from Vice-President Second and Economic, Enterprise and Innovation Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Francisco, I am grateful to you for bringing to this Parliament what is the situation from an economic point of view and from a social point of view, and what are the measures that the Government of Galicia is developing and that it has developed since the state of alarm has been decreed, because we are in fact faced with an enormously difficult situation from a health point of view, but it also has very significant effects on the economic environment and also on the social environment. So we believe from the Galician Union that we have to work together from all authorities, from all administrations, and also from this Parliament itself, to develop a useful policy and respond to the concerns of citizenship, both in the health and in the economy and in employment. I think it would be good to bring to this Parliament the various initiatives that have been taken — as I said — by the Galician Union. The first thing we did was get us to work. You know we've been working with the Committee of Economic Experts to try to minimize the impact of the crisis. We have also been in contact with the interlocutors involved in the social dialogue, and all of this has allowed us to adopt a plan of reactivation and economic dynamisation which is allowing public and private funds to be mobilised by an amount of EUR 3 billion, with a whole series of measures, Mr Francisco, in particular in five major blocs: in terms of health and education; also to alleviate the effects on sectors of the economy especially more affected by pandemic control measures; thirdly, to protect the labour market; to care for the most vulnerable families through measures that promote social recovery; and fifthly, also to provide means of protection against the scourge and to encourage R+D+i to achieve it. Finally, a whole series of measures with a mobilization of EUR 3,000 million. We created a liquidity line to complement, precisely, the Government's lines through ICO. And the Igape mobilized about 130 million euros in loans up to 200,000 euros, with which we are blessing 100% of the interest for small entrepreneurs and also the self-employed. We welcome the repayment quotas for loans from Igape and XesGalicia, we grant tax vacations and we are the second autonomous community that is paying the suppliers at the moment — less than 15 days. Fourthly, we managed to be one of the first autonomous communities that made it easier to collect an advance payroll for workers affected by an ERTE when the government — as you know — had not yet entered it. And we also approved help to complete the minor benefits and also for workers over 55 who lost their jobs. They are benefits supplements, as I say, for minor incomes. We also activate measures to accelerate digitization and, therefore, so that small businesses and self-employed people could also address those needs for greater digitization. We launch programs to encourage consumption in trade through the household appliances renewal plan and also through the automotive industry. We've allocated 12 million euros to the development of 112 innovative projects to better respond to the pandemic. And we also put in place a social recovery plan with more than 60 million euros so that the most vulnerable homes can get out of this situation. He knows that we have expanded the Basic Card to six months, that we have accelerated and flexible risk procedures, that we have increased 50% of the share of social inclusion aid, that we have special assistance to municipalities, that we have more than two million euros to strengthen people's care programmes without home and to complement social emergency aid and we have also just granted about 18 million euros to social initiative entities that are social service providers and that are in addition to the extraordinary assistance granted during the pandemic. Mr Francisco, an immediate mobilisation of EUR 3,000 million to respond, precisely, to the first shock that the self-employed, entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized enterprises and families had to face. From that point on, it is true that you raised this question in August and logically did not have the opportunity to formulate the measures which, within the budget which we have already referred to this Parliament, we are moving forward. Again, in a quick way — in an immediate way — the Council of Galicia is developing its full capacity for economic mobilization that allows the Government itself, establishing the maximum indebtedness established by the Government of Spain. This is allowing us at this point to process budgets that are the highest in history, with EUR 11.563 million; the greatest mobilization of resources, precisely to continue fighting the pandemic, to reactivate Galicia and to meet the needs of families, workers and businesses in a more vulnerable situation. These budgets, Mr Francisco, include a record figure for social expenditure, employment and economic promotion — close to EUR 9 billion — i.e. almost 8 out of every 10 euros in the 2021 financial year accounts are devoted to social development, employment and economic promotion. And he also knows that investments increase by 53% to maintain economic dynamisation, also exceeding the record figure of 2,500 million euros, which means multiplying by three territorialized investment. But it is more, in these budgets, not only is it included a hidden fund for precisely dealing with the impact of the pandemic from the health and social point of view, with EUR 530 million, but it is also included for the first time in the history of this autonomous community a specific fund of EUR 115 million for consensus with the social dialogue, with the group of experts and also with the Committee on Reactivation, precisely to share with the members of that committee measures that can complement what the Government has already brought to this House in the discharge of budgets. So there was an immediate response from the budgetary point of view, trying to mobilize the greatest possible capacity of resources both in social and economic terms. Mr. Francisco, I think it's an immediate response — as you claimed — and agile and, in addition, what a response to the needs. We hope to be able to improve this budget through consensus and also through the approaches that can be moved from the Reactivation Commission. And there's no doubt that we will give that immediate response to both productive tissue and families, autonomy and entrepreneurs. Logically, at the moment, in which the impact is having a more important footprint in sectors such as the hospitality, indeed, we are also setting out extraordinary and exceptional measures for an exceptional situation such as the one unfortunately due to the pandemic, which is suffering from the hospitality sector. We do this with a rescue plan with EUR 84 million to try to reduce the income drop of 30,000 autonomouss and 10,000 micro-pemes, of which EUR 17 million are reserved for direct aid to the sector. A sector for which, in addition, we will simplify the measures which the Government of Spain itself establishes in order to be able to access these aids, because while the Government of Spain demands 75% of billing losses, here in Galicia, we flexible it up to 45% with respect to the same period of the year 2019. We also set up for hosting new loans for self-employed and small and medium-sized companies that have more liquidity problems and more difficulties in accessing credit, a line of 10 million euros to facilitate these soft credits, and help that the hostel can access home sales and that can condition its terraces, precisely in order to get there and better adapt to the current situation of the pandemic. Finally, Mr Francisco, I think we should thank the effort that Galicia is making right now, which is making the productive fabric and which are doing sectors such as hospitality and trade or tourism and, of course, also the strength and the tension that are showing the Greeks themselves and the Greeks. I think in that sum of efforts is where we have to meet. We will therefore continue to move forward and hope to have the support of your parliamentary group. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u135	Thank you, Vice President. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica. Mr. Francisco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u136	Thank you, President. Mr. Count, in connection with this last one you mentioned, a plan of 17 million to the hostel, indeed, 17 million. Finally, we have gathered it in various initiatives that we have recently put forward. What happens is that Mr. Feijóo has us accustomed to this media confusion, as he did yesterday. And I'm going to quote the media because then Mr. Tell me whatsapp's chat from a political party. No, Whatsapp's chat is where Mr. Feijóo, the Cat of La Voice of Galicia, answering Mr. Feijóo to the netizens who were asking him. And, in question, a netizen asked her, "How much is she going to dedicate the board to the hostel?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh And Mr. Feijóo replied, "100 million euros, from 6,000 to 9,000 euros per hostel." Finally, in view of this situation you will understand, Mr Conde, that one, of course, has its doubts about what the reaction of the Union is and what the real position of the Union is on the aid it will give to the whole of economic activity, which at this time is going on quite badly, especially the host sector. But also travel agencies. In this help from the World Health Organization on 17 November, where EUR 30 million is considered for self-employed people, EUR 2 million is reserved specifically for activities essentially closed and, logically, travel agencies. There are 600 travel agencies in the country and there are 8,000 street vendors in the country, which have been completely inactive as a result of confinement; it would be worth 250 euros. Mr. Conde, I think the important thing is not to announce reactivation plans, the important thing is to announce plans in the DOG. And that's where we can deal with you, and we can have a serious debate about what measures you're taking here. You were talking to me about ERTE advances that made the Galician Union; indeed, 3,400 benefits to people whom the State was unable to provide at that time. 282,000 ERTE files have been processed in Galicia in the last two months; 3,400 is 1.20%. That's all right! But it's not an exceptional measure, as they want to sell us. And then you tell me about the tallest budgets in Galician history. Of course, thanks also to the Spanish State; to the one who criticizes both the People's Party in Madrid, likewise vetoing budgets. What would happen to Galicia, which would be of the country's economy as a whole if budgets were not approved in the state as a whole? How are we going to get out of the current situation if there's no approval of the state budgets? So the position of the People's Party at the state level is absolutely irresponsible, being out of the negotiation of State budgets. But the budget of Galicia includes 685 million, Mr. Conde, a transfer from the state, the assumption of the State of 1.1% of the deficit. It is therefore the state, together with European funds, which is bearing the highest budget in history for the Galician Union. The fundamental thing is not to have the highest budget in history, the fundamental thing is to know what we have to dedicate it to; to prioritize these 1,500 million euros, which are the surplus of expenditure, the expenditure supplement that has the budget for 2020. And there these 1,500 million euros, together with hundreds of millions of euros, nearly 700 million euros that have been received over the year 2020 to alleviate the effects of the pandemic, have to be applied — in this case agilely, immediately — to support economic activity in the country, especially those sectors that are most affected as a result of the pandemic itself, and as a result of the confinement measures that it takes to the Galician Union. We insist, Mr. Conde, that you speak of budgets and the priority of the budgets of the Galician Union. Health, of course, is not one of them. Primary care is 7%, it's true, the budget for primary care; the sport is 29%. I say this because I am talking about priorities right now in a situation of absolutely dramatic economic crisis as the country is experiencing. We therefore invite the Councillor — of course, we invite the Board — to receive this expenditure supplement in the budget of the year 2021, if you use that expenditure supplement, that capacity for indebtedness of the Galician Union itself at 1,1 %, too — another EUR 685 million — to maintain employment, to maintain economic activity. And once all this happens — if it happens — immediately redirect economic activity towards the ecological transition axes, digital training,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u137	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u138	...modernization of economic activity and social and territorial cohesion. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u139	Thank you, Mr. Francisco. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Close the interrogation. Second Vice-President and Economics, Enterprise and Innovation Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Francisco, in my speech - if you have noticed - I spoke about Galicia and about the measures that we are putting in place through the 2021 Plan of Economic Reactivation and Budget, and we are moving precisely to give an answer to these families, to those self-employed and to those small and medium-sized enterprises. And we're giving it data and orders published in the Official Journal of Galicia, which are allowing us to be able to mitigate the impact that is being produced, which, logically, with the development of budget 2021, we will continue to accompany. What I'd like is for the Galician Socialist Party to talk about Galicia. Surely, if you were to defend Galicia against the Government of Spain, the Greeks and the Greeks would be winning. And I'm going to give you three data that are to contrast. [[Applause]] First of all, the investment of the Government of Pedro Sánchez and Pablo Iglesias in our autonomous community is the youngest of the last fifteen years, Mr Francisco, just a 6.6%; less than half of the 13% we arrived with the Government of Mariano Rajoy. Second data. Galicia is currently receiving less money from the Government of Pedro Sánchez than the average of the autonomous communities. It looks at the data: 27% less of the money collected from 2019, published this very morning by the Ministry of Business. I think I should review that data and look at the fact that the Greeks and the Greeks are receiving 253 euros on average from the state, while the inhabitants of the rest of the autonomous communities of the common regime are receiving an average of 352 euros. And do you know how much the inhabitants of Catalonia perceive? EUR 421 compared to the EUR 253 of the Greeks. These are the policies that are currently developing the Spanish Socialist Party and to which the Galician Socialist Party is simply silent. But I'm going to transfer more data to you because you know that in general state budgets more than 1% of the transfer to Galicia from the autonomic funding system is being reduced. Mr. Francisco, with this data it is very difficult to understand how the Socialist Party in Galicia is not defending the interests of the Greeks. Why aren't you defending the intermodal of Ourense or Santiago? Why aren't you defending the improvements in access to the Coruña, Vigo and Pontevedra? Why aren't you defending the naval sector in Ferrol? So it assumes the Socialist Party of Spain the commitment it has to Navantia Ferrol, and then, with the construction of the AOR ship, and also with that promised dry dam that it is not even processing. Why isn't it developing and not in budgets the Balados electric substation? Of course, once again, the Socialist Party abandons Galicia, abandons Xacobeo, and there is no match to develop it. Therefore, Mr. Francis, with this government it is very difficult to understand the position of the Socialist Party. You were talking to me about European funds. I would like to know what the position of the Socialist Party in Galicia is in relation to the draft of the real decree which was introduced yesterday, if you agree that the European funds cannot be shared in Spain with criteria of objectivity, transparency and competition and if you accept, you are willing to accept, that the Government, bilaterally and without competition, can allocate the European funds. Of course, which does not contain from the Government of Spain with that position; from Galicia, we are defending equal opportunities between autonomous communities and social and territorial cohesion. We hope that these distribution criteria will be transparent and, above all, that attention should be paid to the situation of the territories from the point of view of the dispersion of the population, from the point of view of the demographic challenge, from the point of view of industrial transition and from the point of view of digitization. Unfortunately, that doesn't seem to be the position. I hope — for the sake of the Greeks and the Greeks — that the Socialist Party of Galicia will begin to defend Galician interests and face a situation that is undermining Galician economic and social recovery. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u141	Thank you, Vice President. We continue with the 7th point of the agenda, questions to the Government. In this case, it is the turn of Mr Martín Seco's question from the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Question by D. Martín Seco García and Da María Leticia Gallego Sanromán, from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the views of the Government of Greece regarding the information and advice they receive, with the current regulatory framework, the municipalities, the rural and mountain communities, as well as the neighborhood in general, so as to be able to negotiate with guarantees with the wind promoters
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u142	Yes, thank you, President. Mr. Conde, it's not bad that I was going to talk about Galicia and not the State Government. It is noted that he has little to defend his management because he only speaks of Pedro Sánchez alone and exclusively. Galicia had strong wind development until 2008. With its government — as it is clear from the data I show it — paralysing came to 2018 from its failure to bet on the sector, the legal insecurity generated by its decisions and the policies of blocking renewable energies that have been carried out since the Government of the People's Party in the State. [[Mr. Seco García shows a document with graphics.]] From 2009 to 2018, both included, only 277 megawatts were installed in Galicia, with millionaire losses in investments and the paralysis of the creation of thousands of jobs. In 2019, reality changed them and brought back the growth of installed power to the state and Galicia. In 2020, it will reach close to 4,000 megawatts in our territory and the forecasts for the current decade point to the construction of some 4,500 new megawatts. From the Socialist Party we believe that we need to wager for wind energy within the strategy to fight climate change, but we need to correct inequalities in negotiation for the installation of these infrastructures and the lack of transparency towards the owners, towards the rural communities and towards the municipalities and the lack of environmental and social guarantees created by their government. The regulation you established envisaged that the benefits of wind should be shared through industrial plans or solar energy promotion plans, but many of the operators lacked the said industrial plan and others did not make the approaches to that promotion of solar energy. The Galician Council saw certain Community benefits indirectly, but finally failed to exercise its supervisory function in the face of company failures. Likewise, there were also non-compliances with environmental impact, because 50% of that installed power is in areas of the Natura Network. In Galicia, the lack of participation and transparency for which you have waged has caused multiple conflicts that are manifest in the social mobilizations that exist throughout the territory. Mr. Conde, we ask them to act before it's too late. At the moment that the sector is experiencing a recovery, we believe it is important to correct its errors, balancing the negotiation between the installers and the owners in a transparent process that is a further tool to combat the depopulation of our rural, which drives mechanisms of transparency and information towards the owners, towards the local communities and towards the municipalities - as from the Galician Wind Observatory they are urged to insist - that neighborhoods, rural communities and municipalities receive adequate compensation for the exploitation of their resources, which establishes better environmental protection and of the territory with the deployment and retraining of parks in places too close to housing itself when the size of the propellers increases exponentially and that they respect areas that should be protected. It requires the reconfiguration of the wind model with the participation of all sectors involved. That's why we want to ask you whether the German Government believes that the current regulatory framework is the right one or whether we should improve the mechanisms of negotiation, participation, transparency...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u143	Thank you, Mr. Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u144	...and environmental protection.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u145	Thank you, Mr. Martín Seco. Response from Vice-President Second and Economic, Enterprise and Innovation Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As bad as you live in Galicia, you've experienced the development of the wind sector in Galicia and you know what your elders have done! That's a lot worse! What happens is that, of course, it turns out that in the Socialist Party they don't listen to the elders and, as they don't listen to the elders, I understand that you probably want to rewrite the history of the development of the wind sector as well. [[Mr. Seco García shows the same document again.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You forget — I have recovered the historical memory — that in August 2005, the Bipartisan Industry Advisor — that is, the Government Industry Advisor of the Galician Socialist Party and the Galego Nationalist Block — declared that Galicia could not bear more wind farms. That's the policy of the Socialist Party's wind sector in 2015. In January 2016 they changed their mind and announced the refounding of the wind business. You know perfectly well that this wind decree has accumulated various resources from the industry — in addition to objections from the Consultative Council — and, above all, you should forget — that you should consult your elders — that this two-party Government has approved two declared illegal wind competitions and that a third party has to be cancelled. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Unfortunately, as I say, Mr. Seco...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u147	Easy, easy, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u148	...you should listen to your seniors and thus know what I am referring to: to that resolution of the 2007 singular wind farms by 300 megavatts which was cancelled by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, and to that contest of 2016 by 2,325, which was annulled by Law 8/2009, promoted by this government and which was validated, as you know, by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia. What doesn't seem reasonable — because you want to rewrite the story — is that he's missing the truth here. I'm not going to talk to him about truths or lies, but about rigour. Do you want to tell me one park that since 2014, which has been approved by the rules of the Natura Network, has developed in Galicia on the Natura Network? You mean one park, one airliner? But do you come here to try to generate doubts about whether this government is complying with legal and environmental regulations? If you have any doubts, you should be somewhere else — on trial — but not in this Parliament. [[Mr. Seco García denies with his head and teaches another document again.]] So if you want to talk about the wind sector, come with data and rigour and, if not, what I advise you is to consult your elders. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u149	Thank you, Vice President. For the reply, Mr. Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u150	Mr. Count, I hope you don't listen very much to your elders, for the luck of all the neighbours of Galicia. I hope so. Once again, they show the futility of their competences in industrial policy, Mr. Count, speaking, as always, of the past and not seeing the future. As I told you in the past, they are useless for the generation and maintenance of employment in the wind sector, as they are living in Gamesa, in the Somozas; they are useless for the wind energy installed in Galicia to leave benefits for the neighborhood and for the municipalities of our countryside; they are useless to safeguard our territory, our natural heritage, and the quality of life of the rural neighbours, where large companies camp at their wide corners. But yet, I ask you again to listen to the Galician Wind Observatory, the Juana de Vega Foundation, the multiple collectives that you command in Galicia asking for changes to the defence they feel before large companies; to listen to the councils and local communities — including many of those governed by the People's Party — who see how their resources are exploited without receiving the desirable benefit between their citizenship; to listen to our rural, Mr. Conde, in areas from the Orders to Curtis, from Outes to Mazarics, in the Lower Mine, etc., in which while their primary industries try to strengthen their activity, they see as they are installed, at the foot of their exploitation, 200-metre mills — the triple of height they have the cathedral of Santiago — without the Junta doing anything and while observing the fractionation of projects to skip environmental procedures. [[Mr. Seco García shows a document.]] Mr. Conde, they are in time to listen to, rectify and compromise a new wind model by correcting the deficiencies of a system put in place by you; a system that must balance negotiations between companies and owners to have a fair benefit, which must establish formulas for municipalities and local communities to receive a benefit in accordance with the exploitation of their resources and that must respect our territory, our natural heritage and the quality of life of our rural neighbours. You decide, either we democratize the system or we continue to hold the hands of big wind companies, who, without getting colored, act as fellow directives of their Government of the Union, like Mrs Bea Mato
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u151	Thank you, Mr. Seco. Close the question, Mr Second Vice-President and Economics, Enterprise and Innovation Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Dry, of course I hear my older ones, of course I do. And I also recognize the work they've done at the time. President Fraga was precisely what enabled the development of megawatts installed in 2006 and 2007 in Galicia. He knows it perfectly. Just as he knows perfectly well that the megawatts that developed in 2019 are thanks to the processing of the government of Alberto Núñez Feijóo. I should know, too. [[Murmurs.]] And you should know that this development was due to the adoption of a law in this Parliament, the law on enterprise implementation, which offers all guarantees from the environmental point of view and from the point of view of territorial development. And do you know who supported that law? This parliamentary group. And do you know who does not support the development of the wind sector in this Parliament? The Galician Socialist Party, which seems to want to play a boost to renewable energies in Spain and here precisely what it wants is that we do not develop the wind sector in Galicia. [[Applause]] And I regret, Mr. Seco, your lack of rigour; for in this context it names the workers of the Somozas, who are going through an enormously delicate moment. Do you know how many years the Socialist Party's government has gone without convening a wind auction here in Spain? Three years, ladies and gentlemen, three years without the Socialist Party developing a single wind auction! And now, of course, we're in an absolutely limited position on a step plant. Why? Because the Socialist Party is not promoting the wind sector. I should therefore have a little more rigour and, above all, whether or not the Socialist Party in Galicia supports the development of the wind sector here in Galicia. I see that, unfortunately, that's not so. And you're still trying to get closer to that position that you've had in your time with the Galician Nationalist Block. Not recognizing that the wind cannon is having a positive impact on Galicia is simply missing the truth. It's just missing the truth. It is 23 million euros a year that, thanks to the fact that this government has implemented in the wind law this canon — and that only three autonomous communities have been established throughout Spain — are benefiting from the municipalities and are also benefiting from the whole of citizenship. Finally, Mr Seco, you should consult with your senior if you really want to support the wind sector here or not. If you look at your seniors, I'll probably tell you. But as unfortunately now the Socialist Party does not listen to its elders, because we are in this undefined situation. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u153	Thank you, Mr. Count. I pray all Members that, by being in the masks, as we are, if we avoid making comments as far as possible that may be harmful. I don't understand well from here, but I do. Intuendo. [[Laughter]] And that doesn't seem prudent to me. [[Murmurs.]] Then I ask you, please, to avoid any comments that might be harmful to some of us by taking advantage of this. We'll take this quietly. Please! Yes, but at last, I know what I'm saying, and I want to be careful. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I also think I heard it, but since I didn't hear everything I had to hear, I want to be careful. I have to let myself be guided by prudence and that's why I'm doing this. I'd rather — if you wanted me to tell you the truth — not have heard that. Perfect! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's it. It's over here. It goes for everyone in general. Question by Da María Sol Díaz Mouteira and seven more MPs from G.P. Galician people, about the actions that are pushing the Galician Union to curb illegal occupation of dwellings in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u154	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Good afternoon, Counselor. The Government of Galicia has repeatedly repeated its concern about the phenomenon of occupation, a problem that causes legal insecurity to legitimate housing owners, conflicts of coexistence in neighboring communities, social alarm in neighborhoods and outrage in citizenship. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, it is this outrage that opposition groups in this Parliament and in the Government in Madrid qualify as bullo, urban legend and even as science fiction literature. And besides, they say he's a minority. Then, if he's a minority, he can't be a legend. And, above all, even they say that the possibility of occupation is minimal. So ask the neighbors of Montealto, of the Ronda de Nelle, of Zapateira, of the neighborhood of the Miracle, of Chanca, of the rue Belvís, of the Algalia de Ariba, of San Pedro, of the Cross of Vigo, of Calvary; and, in Ourense, of the Square of Abastos, of the Burgas, of the neighborhood of Vinteún or of Mariñamansa. Tell these neighbors that their problem is fictitious. And if it's fictitious, why do the Attorney General's Office of the State and the Ministry of the Interior give instructions to act more quickly and forcefully against occupation? The cases I just cited are problems, but real problems. And they generate social concern, undeniable sense of insecurity in the affected areas and defence of legitimate owners of the occupied housing. And I don't say it, say it to the Attorney General's Office. The problem of occupation is becoming a path of access to housing that leads to social conflicts, which we reject by plan from the Popular Parliamentary Group, since we consider illegal occupation to be a flagrant attack on constitutional property rights, access to housing primarily for anti-systems and illegal business by organized crime. Counselor, ladies and gentlemen, a month ago I had the opportunity to share a forum with the president of the Association of Occupation Affectants, Mr. Antonio Miranda, who had just visited a neighborhood of occupied housing. There, voters of the Socialist Party — and I say the Socialist Party because the neighbors pointed out it — asked him to transfer his concern to the President of the Government because he didn't listen to them. He didn't hear or hear that they had a public order problem, and not because they had occupied a dwelling but because their neighborhood, before peaceful and fearless living, was now becoming a hell. They're at the most absolute loss. And neither do I. They say it, which, like any citizen, demands the Government to stand by its problems. That's what the Greeks and the Greeks also expect. So, in spite of the above, Counsellor, from the People's Parliamentary Group, we asked him the following question: What actions are you pushing the Galician Union, within the framework of its competence, to put a stop to the phenomenon of occupation in our community? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Mouteira. Reply by the Environmental Counsellor, Territory and Housing, Ms. Ánxeles Vázquez Mejuto.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u156	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. In fact, the phenomenon of illegal occupation of dwellings in Galicia is not only a problem of numbers, but also a problem of statistics. It's a problem of people, it's a problem of cohabitation, and from there our concern and that's where we put ourselves to work. They're important to us, they're important to us for these statistics that go up every quarter! And by the way, we should have the data from the second and third quarters of this year, which has to be facilitated by the central government and which still hasn't made it easier for us today. But also, apart from statistics, there's the social component, the social component that brings about the illegal occupation of housing in the neighborhoods. That's why we're continually next to the neighbors. Mrs. Díaz spoke of some neighborhoods and I can still give names: the neighbors of Falperra da Coruña — the thirteen unemployed who have just moved to May — the Zapateira, Palavea, those of Gran Via — whose photos were recently published and, although there are some Members who say no, I can teach her the photos. No, it's not like we say it. That's how the houses are left to occupy. [[The Counsellor, Vázquez Mejuto, shows a photograph.]] This is the reality. We found a little bit of everything, from tons of garbage to marijuana plants, toys, drones... this is a reality. [[Murmurs.]] But it's not isolated, it's something else, there's gravity. That's the Gran Via de Vigo. Are you still saying no? [[Murmurs.]] The neighborhoods of the compostal neighborhoods of Pelamios, San Pedro or Pexego Street, or that neighbor of Ourense who was recently out in the media and is sleeping in the car despite having their own housing, who occupied it, are a reality, one after another. So we have it very clearly. We want to end this phenomenon, which is a phenomenon of insecurity. Galicia is positioned and done with work. And what does the central government ask of the central government, the central government that is in the coalition and which, by the way, has not just agreed at all as far as housing is concerned — we have to hear only the latest statements by Nadia Calvin in front of Paul Churches, each on the one hand—? We call for legislative reforms. He's trying them to make the legislative reforms. So we take action. We did so in June and made it known, through a sectoral conference, to the minister himself — not only Galicia, but also to other autonomous communities. But like some Members here, they continue to deny this phenomenon. We started round of contacts with different public and private institutions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u157	Thank you, Counselor. He's got another shift later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u158	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u159	Mrs. Díaz Mouteira's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u160	Thank you, Counselor. I'm sure in that second round you will be able to detail more closely those measures that are being put by the Galician Union in defect or inaction by the Central Government. All these measures and all these actions that are being carried out are a further evidence of the commitment of the Government of Greece to our citizens and, I insist, within the scope of our competences, which are very limited in this matter. After listening to the counsellor, ladies and gentlemen, I insist again: if the problem we're talking about is fictitious, why would the government delegate in Galicia agree to create a bilateral commission for the follow-up of the occupations? There are occupations. I hope this kind of meeting isn't a waste of time. Because the People's Party but the Parliamentary Group and the Government of the Union are nothing but what we've been doing. It's our way of handling: to anticipate. And these measures are trying to prevent the phenomenon of occupation from gaining momentum in Galicia and that the occupations do not at any time have a feeling of impunity. The opposition only looks at statistics; we, people, families, neighborhood, coexistence. It's a qualitative problem more than quantitative. And while we're looking for solutions, we see with perplexity how from municipalities called "change" not only tolerate these types of actions but even promote them. You see that there are municipalities in which there are space release workshops or new alternative housing models. The only space that we and citizens are interested in is legal security, gentlemen. That's why from the People's Parliamentary Group we will continue to work on how many initiatives help to shorten the illegal occupation of housing. And there we know that you will be, Counsellor, the Housing Council and the Joint Government Set to demand the necessary legislative changes. Counselor, we know you will continue to demand the central government made, seriously, and in this group you will find all our support...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u161	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u162	...because the defense of the property is not left-handed or right-hand...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u163	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Mouteira. Your time is up. Thank you. [[Applause]] Close the question by the Environmental, Territorial and Living Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u164	Thank you, Mr. President. Faced with the denial of some Members, it is the reality that the government delegate is moving us, the same reality that the head prosecutor in Galicia, too — with which we also held meetings — and not only these but the experts and entities affected by illegal occupation. They are different associations, such as the Galaga Federation of Neighbors Associations passing through communities like Lugo, Ourense, Ferrol, among many others. And there's also the Vivenda Observatory. And on the measures, what measures have we proposed? Well, to protect those neighbors, who are desolated, through the operation of a pay phone to inform and advise those neighbors. But we also made a map of occupied dwellings in Galicia, because often they don't even match the data they give us from the Ministry with the tangible reality we have in each autonomous community. And the central government has to act. It's your competition. That's how we asked for it, and we've done it on many occasions. Which have been done in other countries, as is the case with Germany, with eviction in 24 hours and with penalties of up to two years for occupation. That's true in Italy, and that's true in Sweden, too. We therefore demand those changes and the State's commitment. And, within these amendments, we call for the amendment of Article 245 of the Criminal Code, in order to reorient and adapt the criminal type of "usurpation" to the current situation, the provision of a prompt or immediate trial procedure, so that the time of disputes arising from that occupation is accelerated and never exceeds 48 hours, or to establish a prohibition on persons illegally occupying an immovable. These are some of the legislative changes needed to strengthen and facilitate the removal of immovables from the very first moment. Make sure we don't stop here. Be sure we'll continue to watch for private property. But above all, we will continue to see for the well-being of the citizenship of our neighborhoods. These people, who often use force, cannot be unpunished as if nothing happened, as if nothing was happening. We therefore consider it fair that the owners of the housing have security. We also consider it very fair — and so it endorses the Constitution — the right to housing. And then, on the right to housing, we're working. But I believe that in the case of these occupants I refer to — or those also referred to by our honourable Member — no one has resorted either to the municipalities nor to the Council of Galicia to help them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u165	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Martín Fernández Prado and seven other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the assessment made by the Galician Board of Budget Shares entered in respect of road and rail infrastructure in the draft general government budget law for the year 2021
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u166	Mr. Fernández Prado, of the People's Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u167	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Good afternoon, Counselor. This question is prompted by the recent presentation of the State Budget Project for 2021 and the finding that Galicia is the object of a comparative deterioration in relation to other autonomous communities in respect of the planned sections of road and rail infrastructure. The accounts submitted by the Government of Spain for next year cannot be more disappointing for Galicia's general interests, as they are the lowest figure in the last fifteen years. It's the historic record year with the greatest budget of history and the most skeptic for Galicia. The download, in addition, is generally well known in the main infrastructures. We have checked from the Popular Parliamentary Group with perplexity how there are basic infrastructures that have witness sections or, in the worst case, disappear directly. This, in addition, goes generally throughout Galicia, reaching all cities as well, despite the fact that they are governed by socialist mayors or mayors. Some even complained publicly. But I don't know if you got any calls from Madrid because soon the speech changed. For example, the mayor of the Coruña, who did the first analysis of budgets, said that the budgets of Sánchez and Churches were "manifestly improved." A few hours or a day later he's changed and said "reasonably satisfied." Given the evolution that it has, as we said, with a few more days and with another call, it would seem extraordinary to you. But he does have complaints from the members of the board, who invest three times what the state is going to invest and grow at 65% in the city. We believe that the budget that was not approved, the 2019 budget, was regrettable and would generate complaints from these mayors and mayors. But we see now, presented this, that they are just as bad this year. Minister Montero justifies the descent because he says that the previous years Galicia was awarded by the works of the AVE. But today we also go on without AVE. And we're still getting new dates. Of course, in the penultimate that they told us -- at the end of this year -- it won't be; and it won't be in the summer of 2021 either. And we're going on, because this isn't just about investments. This is the realization of what we are suffering from in terms of services and infrastructure. Today we continue without recovering the railway services that we lost with the pandemic and that continue, months later, without recuperation. They tell us they're going to put 55 million in subsidies for Audasa -- a candy -- but they take us out hundreds of millions, hundreds of millions!, in street works. To get the data, they say 55 in grants, but only in the city of Coruña, about the 2018 budgets, we lost 100 million in road infrastructures, which they didn't run because they didn't want to.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u168	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. Response from the Infrastructure & Mobility Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u169	Thank you, President. Well, ladies, I won't give you any more spins. State budgets for the year 2021 in Galicia are bad for the interests of the Greeks. And the truth is, it's not an opinion, it's a social cry and a finding of data analysis. Because the numbers sing. The numbers sing! The State budgets for the year 2021 in Galicia are the minors in fifteen years — hence a minimum historical — three points less than territorialized budgets. Galicia occupies sixth place, but the infrastructure deficit is very important. So what we see is that there are other interests that are different from those that must be given priority when you expect an budget. What excels, of course, is to rejoice at the parties that hold the Government of Spain. There are either no budget shares of strategic infrastructures or they are minimal — which, of course, shows absolute disregard — or disappears — and therefore shows contempt. There are no solid or quantifiable investments in big cities. In the Coruña and Vigo the state's investments disappear. They're the big forgotten ones. I am surprised that socialist representatives defend the cape and sword the disastrous budgets of the Government of Spain in Galicia. The BNG party has already clearly stated that it is a slap in Galicia, but I also suppose they will know that the government has also been supported by the BNG party. It's surprising that a minister justifies the decline in investments in Galicia by contributing Galicia to national GDP, which is 5.2%. It's amazing that that's justification when it's budgets that grow exponentially, because we're in an extraordinary situation. And about the abolition of AP-9's toll in three years, no case. The Spanish Government has answered absolutely nothing. And now what we have is incognitas, incognitas and incognitas. The little letter I'd like to read, that little letter that's poisoned, because we don't know when or how. What we know is that when the Socialist Party governs it, Audasa always wins. So we're really worried. I hope that in January it will again ascend to AP-9, and it will be the only highway of the Government of Spain that rises from January 1st. And it's a shame they forget about AP-53. The fact is that budgets are discriminatory and unfair. They're discriminatory because of the clip in Galicia and because they're shot in Catalonia. They're discriminatory around the corridor... of course, the Government of Spain should rule all over Spain, not half of Spain. And they're unusual because it's not the time of the tax burden. So here are the budgets of the Union, which are indeed the highest in history. What counts for the Government of Spain is not the general interest, what counts is to be content with the parties that maintain the Government of Spain.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u170	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u171	Thank you, Counselor, for your assessment. In fact, since the People's Group, we're also concerned. But we're not only worried about these figures in a year of growth. Because investments don't go down into infrastructure; they grow up too, but they go somewhere else, they go to other autonomous communities. We're especially concerned because there's a clear bet of this PSOE government and We can for the Mediterranean. The only exception is Asturias, but as for the rest of autonomous communities, the Mediterranean axis grows enormously as they descend from the Cantabrian and northwest. For example: Galicia drops by 11% while Catalonia rises by 50%, Andalusia rises by 45%, Murcia by 83% and Valencia by 57%. I mean, this is clearly an investment bet on the Mediterranean axis, in front of the Cantabrian and the northwest. Allow me this last minute, since we don't have these demands on the part of our mayors, to quote — at least for the record — some of the works we miss. We talked about the big cities, and in Vigo is the theme of the library -- we brought it to a PNL -- or Madrid Avenue; all the roads disappear in the Coruña, and I'll tell you about the railway access to the port!; in Lugo, the police station or the bus to Ourense; in Santiago, the intermodal — with the excuse of the convention—, the old building of Lavacolla or the urbanization of Conxo; in Ferrol, the covered dike of Navantia, the connection of Ferrol to the railway Atlantic axis; in Ourense, the intermodal, the northern variant — this is the first stretch of A-56—; or in Pontevedra, the circumference — which they have is like having nothing—. Our Members have just tabled amendments to these general State budgets. Because, obviously, they're not going to fix all the faults and all the eves there is. But at least they want you to be present in the debate and they will present those amendments. All I'm asking is that they call their parties and ask them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u172	Thank you, Mr. Prado. Thank you, thank you, your time is up. Question is closed by the Infrastructure & Mobility Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u173	Thank you, President. Well, Your Honor, as I told you, the general state budgets in Galicia for the year 2021 are discriminatory and insolidary. They are discriminatory and insolidary, and they are also the budgets of excuses and forgetfulness. They are the excuses because they want to justify the lack of investments in Galicia on many issues. As I said at the beginning, they're excused in the raw domestic product, but also in that they've invested a lot in AVE in Galicia. And the truth is, in railway matters, they're slow in the Government of Spain! because three years for a geological study in the variant of Sardinia, of course, is a horrifying parsimony. If high speed to Galicia is an excuse, then how do we interpret the millionaire investments in Valencia and Catalonia, which already have AVE? How do you interpret it? Someone can answer me! It is unforgivable, of course, the forgetfulness of the railway Atlantic corridor. We've been working in the autonomous communities of Asturias, Castile and León and Galicia in partnership with the business sector and the social sectors, and with an important impulse. We have the utmost interest in improving the freight train corridor. And we see that for Punta Langosteira, nothing; the same luck in the southern exit of Vigo, nothing; zero investment in the railway connections of the Atlantic ports. And we see what happens in the Mediterranean corridor: EUR 400 million for the condoning of the port in Valencia and EUR 2,000 million for the Mediterranean corridor. I'm saying we have to rule all over Spain, not half of Spain. And let's talk about other railway improvements. Practically nothing for Ferrol-La Coruña, too. Ferrol-Ribadeo also disappears. The big cities of Greece are missing. In the Coruña, nothing, nothing of the expansion of Alfonso Molina, Ponte Pasaxe... and Vigo shines, shines by the absence of general state investments in Galicia. This is how Vigo shines in state budgets, because there are tiny amounts for the Vigo-O Porriño highway, the most accidental in all of Spain. We don't know anything about the urban integration of AP-9; we don't know about Madrid Avenue, which looks like a black hole of what we've known since 2016. Nothing at all in Vigo!, and neither in the Navy did they shine, nor in A-76 — Punferrada-Ourense — at A-56 — Lugo-Ourense —... So they're harmful to Galicia. That's why we hope that these amendments, of 300 million euros, will be dealt with. We're trying to beat these eaves, these forgetfulnesss, these deficits, with the general budgets of the Galician Union. Because the general budgets of the Galician Union do understand public investment to reactivate the economy we need so much. And, therefore, it is necessary to put into context general State budgets for the year 2021, which are minors in fifteen years – – at least historical –, and budgets of the Galician Union that increase by 14%, which triple the territorialized investment of the Government of Spain in Galicia. So we have a maximum history of the budgets of the Galician Union to correct the state budget in Galicia. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u174	Thank you, Counselor. Question from Noa Susana Díaz Varela and two other MPs from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the knowledge by the Greek Government of the danger that is supposed to face the declaration of the Sacred Ribeira as the heritage of humanity the project of the Provincial Deputy of Ourense for the conditioning and integral improvement of the road of access to San Pedro de Rocas, in the Town Hall of Esgos
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u175	You have a word for Mrs. Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u176	Hello, good afternoon. The Sacred Ribeira was declared a Historical Heritage in 1923 — as you know — and since 2018 it is Good of Cultural Interest in the category of cultural landscape, recognitions to which it should soon — and I say "should" — be added to the statement as World Heritage by UNESCO. The unique features of the Sacred River undoubtedly deserve the protection and recognition it offers to be declared Human Heritage, which will serve to improve the quality of life of its inhabitants and which will also help preserve its historical, ethnographic and landscaped values. But that statement requires scrupulously protection and preservation of the landscape, the environment and its heritage. This perishes at this moment by a project of the Provincial Deputy of Ourense, which says it seeks to improve the road safety of the truce of the Ourense-509 road connecting to the monastery of San Pedro de Rocas, in the Town Hall of Esgos. The so-called project — which has the only purpose of facilitating the transit of buses, large buses, to the monastery — will entail the cutting of more than a hundred trees included in the area of monastery protection, the condition of the Coutada's house and its surroundings and the destruction of the archaeological soil protected in an extension yet to be calculated, among other conditions. With this intended action it is demonstrated the concept that the House of Ourense — governed by Mr Baltar, the People's Party — has about the heritage: a good that must be made available to the public indiscriminately to promote a massive tourism that will ultimately lead to the destruction of the heritage. It is surprising because the president of the Union — of the party itself, by the way, that Mr Baltar — assured in 2017, on a visit to the monastery of San Pedro de Rocas, that he would protect him by rationalizing his visits. In addition, as reported in a report these past few days, multiple civil heritage associations — thanks to which this topic has really come to know — the great Rupester complex of San Pedro de Rocas — which covers at least 30 hectares — justifyes and argues, through scientific research, the criteria 3 and 4 of the dossier of the candidacy of the Holy Ribeira to World Heritage by UNESCO. It is unheard of, therefore, that the same administration that pushes and supports the statement of the Sacred Ribeira as the Heritage of Humanity intends to commit a heritage attack like this, and that it does so also under the justification of the preservation of the natural heritage. The heritage is not preserved by facilitating access to a massive tourism — something about which also alerts UNESCO itself — but by protecting and minimizing its potential risks. But it is even more unusual that, as Mr. Baltar himself says, the project contains the good visa of the General Heritage Directorate — something we hope not to be true. For all this, what we ask him is whether he is aware of the Council of Galicia that with this work he pervades the Declaration of the Sacred River as the World Heritage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u177	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Varela. Reply by the Councillor for Culture, Education and University.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u178	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, as you well know, the Greek Government is the main promoter of the candidacy of the Holy Ribeira. A candidacy that is an example of good management, good work, coordinated and collaborative work, which has carried out an exemplary process. In fact, very recently the ambassador of Spain to UNESCO — Mr. Perelló — said that this candidacy was defending itself. I think it was an example of coordination, protection and planning. It was a record-time work that will allow us, from one year now, to be talking about a fantastic territory inscribed on the list of the World Heritage Site. In the summer of 2021, God through, will meet the UNESCO Committee in China and will surely be declared Human Heritage. The truth is, I can understand your concern but not your argument. You're thinking here of some sort of heritage attack. And I want to tell you that the church of San Pedro de Rocas was declared BIC, indeed. It's an asset of cultural interest. And what is being proposed is an access, a way, to ensure road protection; to ensure secure access to the temple. However, I'm going to tell you that the proposed actions are outside the BIC's area of protection. If they act on listed goods in the municipal urban management plan, which are the Coutera house and its cruise. In any case, what I mean to you is that the BIC is not directly affected. Whether your environment is affected. And it's just that sometimes exaggeration loses credibility. I can tell you, Your Honor, for your tranquility and for the tranquility of all the people who listen to us, that in this case the Council of Galicia, like the House of Ourense, like the Deputies of Lugo and many of the municipalities around the Sacred Ribeira, we are all committed to getting this project forward, a project that, as I say, is an example of coordination and, as Mr Sánchez says — a word that greatly likes the Socialist Party — of co-governance. But, in any case, you can be absolutely certain that neither the House of Ourense nor the Council of Galicia will do anything that would prejudice the candidacy. In the hypothetical case that there is some warning from the competent bodies about this project or other project driven by any administration, you are quite sure that it will not be possible to carry out, because the opportunity we have at the moment is so important that it justifies any kind of action in this area. With which, there is tranquility, not exaggeration, the questions are technically studied and they are apostatized for what we all want: that the Sacred River be declared a World Heritage Site. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u179	Mrs. Díaz Varela's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u180	Counselor, even building a road and building a roundabout for large buses to board, I don't think it's, of course, a guarantee of road safety. It's simply what I'm going to comment on below, is understanding tourism or promoting our heritage in a completely different way. Of course, in view of the answer, it seems obvious that the Directorate-General for Heritage is not only aware of the project of the Ourense Provincial Deputy to modify that access, but also approves this action. Moreover, we understand that he has indeed made some reports that believe not only the need but also the urgency of this work. For us, of course, it is to be expected that the General Directorate of Heritage — who is responsible for, you know, coordinating actions in the field of artistic, historical, architectural, archeological, paleontological, ethnological, anthropological, industrial, scientific and technical heritage in all its manifestations — will urgently be involved in this project by making a more transparent report on this action, to all unnecessarily unnecessarily, which affects an exceptional cultural heritage of incalculable value. And, allow me, but the Greeks and the Greeks, of course, we have very bad luck with an autonomous government that allows us with assiduousness — and allow me to tell them that they are also always the same — our cultural and landscaped heritage suffers attacks like this; well for interests we do not know or for the bad conception of the public — that they think they can do with it what they want — and, on the other hand, with tourism, understood from an optical — and excuse me — of "cosmopalism" to which we have already been accustomed. [[Applause]] Luckily, thanks to the litigation brought by the owner of the land affected — again is the neighborhood to which he becomes a guarantor of our heritage — this dossier is paralysed. So they have time to reflect and turn on their wrong heritage policy to protect it. What are we going to leave our sons and daughters? Have you ever thought about it? Of course, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we have begun by saying that they are giving this project a rethink, because the damage, if it is finally carried out, will be irreversible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u181	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Varela. Close the question. Councilman of Culture, Education and University.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u182	Well, I am sorry to hear some comments that, frankly, are based on a presumption of superiority over other political formations. Indeed, those of the Socialist Party are very respectful of the heritage. Without going further, the president of the Lugo Deputy wanted to make a thyroid over the Sacred Ribeira. Vigo's mayor has hundreds of complaints about his management in Vigo's historic helmet. You actually have a high level of "cosmopalism" -- as you just said -- but they are based on a presumption of intellectual and moral superiority. When you scratch it a little bit in the action of your governments, you can actually kick it, as we all do. But I think that such a high-level stance hurts politics, because part of a position of intended moral superiority. I've already told you that in no case are we going to allow or allow any action to be taken that could harm the candidacy. From this intervention you speak of a roundabout, of mass tourism. Here we're making an access route to make it easier for the population to access. In any case, you have to do it carefully and you have to do it properly. Even today, General Directorate teams are talking to ICOMOS teams. We are in contact with the Ourense Deputy and we have your absolute commitment that, as there is some kind of risk or some kind of report that contradicts or causes the initial project to be modified, it will stop. But there's no doubt about it! It is only to question that, by means of a road access — with greater or lesser necessity — to a property asset to make it possible to visit and to facilitate access to it, if you put this candidacy at risk, that does not happen to anyone. I hope, Your Honor, that you are not working here as speakers of other interests that go against the general interest and the interest of the Sacred Ribeira, I really hope so. But I urge you and I will tell you again that we are talking to ICOMOS, that we are talking to the House of Ourense, and that we have your commitment that, as there is the slightest risk that there will be some problem, if there is to - as the old commander said. There's no kind of problem, no kind of problem. With which, be absolutely calm, because this Government, who is the main promoter of the candidacy of the Holy Ribeira and who is making an exemplary process, will defend and will enable that, in the summer of 2021... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u183	Thank you, Counselor. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u184	...the Sacred Ribeira is declared a World Heritage Site. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u185	Thank you. Question from Mercedes Complains Zas, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the intentions of the Galician Council regarding the support of Greek as a vehicle language of teaching, fulfilling the reports of the Council of Europe that demand the elimination of current limitations to teaching in Galicia at all levels of education and the publication of the pending evaluations of the decree of plurilingualism
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u186	Question by Mrs. Mercedes Complaints from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u187	Thank you very much and very late. The Committee of Experts of the Council of Europe evaluating compliance with the European Charter of Regional and Minority Languages delivered in 2019 the third report evaluating the application of this letter by the signatory states. After the previous negative reports, 2012 and 2016, this latest 2019 report represents a higher level of criticism to the German Government in relation to teaching and the evident fall in the use of the country's language. In this sense, the Council of Europe calls for urgent — and I read literally — "to eliminate limitations to teaching in English at all levels of precise education and to make public the evaluation reports of supervisors in education." The European body recries to the Government of Greece that the presence of our language is insufficient in teaching, particularly in the field of child education. And he warns again that in high school, there are no major scientific subjects in this language that are being standardised. The Council of Europe ratifys the socio-linguistic data which has been confirmed by the Galego Institute of Statistics on the serious decline in competition and use of Welsh, particularly by children. In this sense, the Galego Institute of Statistics has found that the fourth of the children and the children of Greece can only speak English, very little or nothing. It's a decline of almost 6 points in relation to the beginning of the century, due to to a good extent — it's true — to the breakdown in the generational transmission, which leaves the school as the only possibility of acquisition and education in its own and official language. In view of this, the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego asks the following question: Is the Government willing to support the Greek language as a vehicle language of teaching in order to comply with the reports of the Council of Europe which demand, on the one hand, the elimination of current limitations on teaching in Greek and on the other, the publication of the pending assessments of the Decree of Multilingualism? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u188	Thank you, Mrs. Complaints. Reply by the Councillor for Culture, Education and University.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u189	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam, we are in the face of a very recurrent debate, a constant one. Of course, Greek is vehicle language, but it's the same as Spanish. Because fortunately we have in Galicia a model in which we have two vehicle languages, as collected in the Statute. Well, the Block never respected the Statute, it didn't vote for it. It is as it is in the Constitution and even as it is in the Law of Linguistic Standardization. [[Murmurs.]] And you know that the Language Standardization Act itself prohibits linguistic immersion into one language. I think trying to move Galicia to debates that take place in other autonomous communities does not make much sense. This was a big topic of political discussion, vertebrate for a long time in Galicia. This House is tired of listening to this debate. And, of course, you see only one part. In the broad linguistic spectrum that we have in Galicia fortunately the People's Party and the Unity of Galicia are in the great center. Why? Because there are some who want only German—I understand that you are—and others who want only Spanish—I understand that you are not. And in the middle we are the vast majority, which we understand is that there are two official languages in Galicia and one language itself. And, of course, we have a model that is working. And the most important thing in our model is the data. He told me he didn't like the data in the morning. You quoted here some data. I'm going to quote you some other data and see if we can agree. Look, I'll give you the IGE data. The survey you're talking about, of the Council of Europe report, is a survey done in Oviedo in 2018. Here we're talking about data from the 2019 IGE. What do they tell us? The data from the 2019 IGE — which you have quoted as well — say that the number of spokespersons has first increased in statistical terms. Today, at that point, more people speak Greek than five years ago. English is the co-official language with the most use of all the co-official languages in Spain. In the population between 15 and 29 years of age, 90.16% speaks German much or enough.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u190	It's data from... I don't know, he said about the IGE.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u191	Well, I don't know. It's IGE data, it's IGE data.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u192	Mr. Rivas, please, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u193	I repeat, the IGE data says that, between 15 and 29 years of age, 90.16% of the population says speak English a lot or a lot, that Greek is the co-official language of Spain with the highest terms of written and oral knowledge competence in all autonomous communities of Spain. And he also says that the employment index of the Greek is higher than that of Catalan in Catalonia. You who look at Catalonia so much, see that we speak our own language more than Catalans do.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u194	Thank you, Counselor, thank you. You've finished the question, you've finished your shift here. [[Mr. Culture, Education and University Counsellor, Rodríguez González, utters words that are not perceived.]] Thank you, it's over. You have another shift later, Counselor. He's got another shift later. Thank you. [[Applause]] Mrs. Complainer's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u195	Thank you very much. With deep sadness, from the knowledge that corresponds to my sociolinguistic formation, I have to point out that it is absolutely manipulating what is meant by data of linguistic competition and use, which have absolutely nothing to do with it. In the same way, some of the data he gives are also perverse, because he's confusing the competence and use of language in older fringes with those of childhood, which are actually the ones that assure or seriously endanger and compromise the future of the language. [[Applause]] So I see, we've checked again, in fact, that you're a real enemy of an entrenchment of lies that you've been making for ten years now. They were pioneers vetoing Greek at school, banned for the first time in democracy, when they know that for many children it is the only place, the only option and the opportunity to learn the Greek language. They did it on their own — we will never forget it — unilaterally and giving their back to families, to the pedagogical renovation movements, to trade union organizations, to universities, to the Council of Culture, to the Galician School Council and to the Royal Galician Academy. They went on against everyone. Yes, the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia stopped their feet by nullifying two articles that were very harmful to the future of language and also because they were contrary to law. And now, ten years later, they go back to dealing with the ghosts of the past, and they assume as their own the speech of the veto to the Greek as a vehicle language incapacitating it to be a language of learning. They deny their capacity for social cohesion and use them naked again, in effect, as a weapon against society. They are joined by the most negationist, more powerful and complex politics, full of self-nobility fueled by the worship of ignorance. You've got paper, of course! O galego one. We follow that motto. It seems to you, at the PP, it's only about confronting. Really, I'm telling you from the heart. That will always be his penance. They can't brag, when they're done with their government time, if they've got it... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u196	Your time is up, Mrs. Complaints. Thank you, thank you. Time's up. [[Applause]] Close the question by the Councillor for Culture, Education and University.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u197	Madam President, you, your party, are importing Galician language models based on the reduction of individual freedom of each person to speak the language he wants. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You believe and differentiate even competition. What is the responsibility of the Autonomic Administration? Guarantee competition. Competition is absolutely guaranteed in the education system, absolutely guaranteed in the education system! I just gave the real IGE data. [[Applause]] They can deny it. Well, that's like when it rains, it gets out on the street, it denies it rains and it cools. It's okay. It's the real data. We have the utmost competition. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Another thing is the use, indeed. But use is an individual freedom. [[Strong murmurers.]] Because what do you want to do, do what your Catalan friends do in Catalonia and put cops in the play so the children speak Catalan in the recreation? You want that? Do you want that? Do you want that? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You don't respect the person, the individual, who expresses himself in something as intimate as the language. What do you want? Do you force them to speak one language or another? Because you want to make one talk, but there are others who want to make another talk. What do we do? What do we do?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u198	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u199	The best example is the Greek example. There's a model here. We have two languages that are teaching vehicles and both allow us to have the highest level of competition. He just said PISA, too. Don't listen to the IGE, PISA. [[Murmurs.]] And, look, we didn't ban anything. The Galician Union does not forbid anything, it does not forbid the Greek. Back off, defend him. He defends it by having a linguistic model of balance in which to know the two languages. And all students in the educational system are orally and writtenly dominating both languages. And that's true, radically true. [[Murmurs.]] Don't lose it. In any case, it is not seen as a vehicle language. [[Applause]] Its use is regulated. But — I insist — you have a policy. Its policy is monolingualism, only in German. You're copying what's done in Catalonia. The truth is, they shouldn't look so much at Catalonia because they're wrong. Because all we have to do is see the social conflicts that generate a monolingualism tax from the administration in society. That doesn't make any sense. The Administration must provide the skills and competences. Do it. And then we have to respect the individual freedom of each individual...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u200	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u201	...to the language you want...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u202	Thank you, Counselor. Time's up. Thank you. [[Applause]] Question from Noa Susana Díaz Varela and two other MPs from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the assessment made by the government of the data inserted in several studies and official reports reflecting a strong increase in cases of sexual violence in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u203	Good afternoon again. Today we bring this question here in advance of the committee tomorrow, in which we will also deal with this question. What's going on is that he probably doesn't have time to deal with it in depth. We have already said that the International Day for the Elimination of Male Violence is commemorated this November 25. And as the UN expresses, violence against women and girls, rooted in unequal power relationships between women and men, persists as an endemic silent crisis. In addition to us, among the multiple forms of this macho violence, they worry about sex, as one of the most brutal women who continue to suffer. There are alarming data showing a strong increase, as collected by studies or reports recently carried out by different official bodies. As I say, tomorrow we will debate in Commission 5th on the report on sexual violence, which makes it clear, for example, that sexual crimes in Galicia are increasingly being committed. In 2018 cases of sexual violence increased by 16.7% compared to the previous year. Also, the Galician High Prosecutor's Office recently presented its annual memory, corresponding to last year, with very worrying data on sexual offences cases, with an increase of 51% of the crimes. A total of 1,894 were the proceedings initiated by this type of crime committed against freedom and sexual indemnity. In terms of sexual offences, aggressions grew with 54.4%, and abuses with 63.1%, and rapes with 33.3%. And it is that these data from the Prosecutor's Office are also in a terrible way in line with the report on crimes against sexual freedom and compensation, which reflects a clear increase in the last five years of crimes; and more significantly in the years 2017 and 2018. The 2019 provisional data is already produced caught. Without finishing the data count, an increase of 18.7 % is already given as compared to the previous year. But there's more shocking data. 48% of total victimisations are smaller, almost half, smaller. Crimes are greatly increased through sexual technology. And the largest number of rape victimizations is also in the age group between 18 and 30 years. We have already said this morning — but the adviser was not in the session — that, in relation to the crime of trafficking — something that this parliamentary group is interested in and too concerned about, because it is the worst expression of this macho violence, of this sexual violence, it draws attention that only a judicial procedure was instituted last year, of what we were talking about this morning. This demonstrates the abandonment these women have on the part of society and points out how difficult it is for them to initiate such a process. Perhaps that is why, as I say, according to studies on the perception of sexual violence — which is terrible and which also appears in this study — prostitution is the least identifying society as a form of sexual violence. Terrible, isn't it? That's why it seems to us that... Oh, time's up. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u204	The advisor knows the question. Answer the Employment and Equality Counsellor, Ms. Maria Jesús Lorenzana Somoza.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u205	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Well, in the first term, and being, indeed, today, the International Day of the Elimination of Violence against Women, I want to express my support from here for all the families of the victims who are no longer with us today. And I also want to convey a message of hope to women who are suffering at this time of gender-based violence. And I tell them they're not alone and we're with them and supporting them. [[Applause]] Having said this, and already responding to the Socialist Party's initiative, which is its intervention and the written proposal for the question refer to that since the Galician Union no efforts are being made in connection with the fight against gender-based violence and, in particular, with this type of violence, which is sexual violence. And I'd like to point out from here, and for the reasons I'm going to expose you, that, in fact, this is not true. Since Galician Union, first of all, we have a legislative framework which is a legislative framework which does not have the Spanish State, because you know that in the Gender Violence Treatment and Prevention Act, sexual violence is considered a form of gender-based violence. I mean, all forms of sexual violence are typified, whether sexual violence as such, sexual abuse or sexual harassment, as forms of gender-based violence. This, therefore, allows treatment of sexual violence at all stages since the administration to end up for alleged gender-based violence. And what are the formulas and actions that have been carried out since the Autonomic Administration in this area? First, we believe that the best way to fight violence against women is through prevention; prevention through training, awareness and awareness of society. And in this sense, I'm going to put some examples. For example, the prevention and awareness-raising of sexual violence in youth at the three major universities in Greece — attended 742 pupils and students — prevention and action campaigns at workplaces, with professional schools; the guide of sexual violence towards children and women with disabilities; and the campaigns we are launching this year of "Aggression Off" with stands in the various municipalities of Galicia and with the "Aggression Off" APP. Secondly, the second action is direct intervention with victims through the telephone service, through the legal advisory service, through the psychological support services, the permanent psychological guard shift service, a psychological support service to victims of sexual violence specifically, and the entire network of treatment centres and victim care offices at judicial headquarters, etc. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, with these instruments we believe that, since the Council of Galicia, in the field of training, prevention, awareness-raising and in the field of direct action and intervention, we are on the most appropriate path to combating gender-based violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u206	Thank you, Counselor. Mrs. Díaz Varela's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u207	Recently, the President of the Galician Union reported that little more than half of the measures mandated by the State Covenant against Gender Violence for the period 2018-2022 had already been implemented. In that appearance, when he reported a report on the execution of the actions of the State covenant, Mr. Feijóo put in value multiple actions carried out — which we did not discuss, moreover — almost all of them focused on assisting victims and their minor descendants, but not on preventing, first link of the chain to breaking up with this violence that affects thousands of Greek women. You're talking about whether they work, especially in prevention, and we don't think they don't make any effort. We understand that yes, that they certainly do, but they're probably not enough in the data view. In the opinion of the Galician Socialist Group, these efforts in the area of prevention of sexual violence may not yet be sufficient. Because reality with sexual violence — as you well said — is struggling to raise awareness, educate and raise awareness in school, in the street, in places of work, in places of leisure, in homes or in institutions. And all of this must be initiated by the public authorities. If the numbers keep increasing, something's not doing right. We've given just a few data before, but there's a lot more to show that we're not even close to putting an end to this violence. And if that's the case, maybe it's time to reflect, to evaluate the lines of action that have been set up so far, to evaluate what's important. And from this sure reflection exercise that will come out much more effective proposals, direct actions and close to implementation in neighborhoods, in socio-cultural centers, but also powerful awareness campaigns focused on each reality and on each social group. We are missing — and I say it constructively, truly constructively, because we know that this is a matter of sufficient importance for consensus — campaigns aimed at men and the newer population on prostitution, on pornography, on the use of social networks. What we ultimately think is: less money for campaigns of "sentidy" and more for equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u208	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Varela. Close this question by the Employment and Equality Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u209	Thank you, President First of all, I would like to thank the constructive tone of the honourable Member, if I cannot agree that we have not been spending money since the first part of Galicia and taking seriously the need to invest in equality. For every euro spent on equality in 2009, when we arrived at the Government, we now spent three; that is, 54.7 million invested on equality in 2009, and in 2021 we will invest 141.7 million. I don't agree either that we don't think about equality and data. We have, of course, to continue along the path that we have begun. What is clear is that the path is the right one. We created in the plenary session of the Galego Observatory against Gender Violence a commission to address the prevention and treatment of sexual violence. We did a macro survey, as you know, in 2005, in 2012 and now in 2020. The sample percentage of this year 2020 is 200 percent above 2012, and we included sexual violence among the parameters of this macro-enquisition for the first time. It is apparent here that 80 percent of the people surveyed agree with the existence of machismo in society. It is also apparent here that 78.4% agree that poor sex education between youth is probably the source of alleged sexual abuse. And all this is done because we really want to reflect, we want to know how our awareness campaigns are impacting, our awareness-raising actions, our training actions for children, for children and for youth. And all this is what marks us the way to know what we have to keep doing. So, we just presented an action guide for alleged gender-based violence in the educational field. So, we've also just developed two new didactic units for ESO and for Bachelorship that tell the history of feminism. Thus, we have also recently renewed the agreement with the three universities of Greece, within the framework of the State Covenant against Gender Violence, to act, to raise awareness and to raise awareness among the young and young students of Greece. With this, what I'm telling you is that we don't stay in the superficial analysis of the data. With this, what I want to tell you is, not that we're not thinking about data, but that with this data, what we're doing is defining the necessary actions that should mark the path of equality in our community; as I say, with services, with resources, with awareness campaigns that we've been carrying out for years. Because we don't forget that, indeed, even though the survey shows is that we're on the right track, every negative figure hides, of course, a family, hiding children, hiding children, hiding women, who are being victims of gender-based violence. And, as I told you, we are convinced from the Council of Equality, from the Council of Galicia, that the best way is to prevent, train, educate our children, our children and our society. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u210	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Manuel Antonio Lourenzo Sobral and three other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the forecasts of the Greek Government regarding the necessary measures to solve the situation in which public health is found in Soutomaior Town Hall and in the parish of Ponte Sampaio, in Pontevedra Town Hall
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u211	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Health Counsellor, for years we have been witnessing a systematic and constant dismantling of our primary care, a dismantling that has recently led us to an absolutely critical situation: two doctors and an ODA for 7,500 inhabitants, health coupons that range from 1,600 to 1,700 patients per physician, delays of up to three weeks to have a primary care appointment, continuous collapses to their systematic refusal to cover health professionals' casualties and, if that is not enough, a consultant, as is Romariz's consultant, closed from March 15th. As closed was also the advice of Ponte Sampaio, which we also refer to on this initiative, but that — to a good extent thanks to the mobilizations of the neighborhood and the intervention of the Pontevedra Council, which is fair to say too — we have finally managed to get that consultant, as you know, to recover his doctor. But it seems that the neighborhood in Soutomairo was worse off. And despite the constant mobilizations, despite the emergency situation, we continue without the doctors they need. And the consequences are on the table: doctors who have to attend to seventy daily consultations, pediatricians and midwives with traveling replacements that are found several weeks a year with the care of 1,600 patients, the impossibility of healthcare professionals — to those who from here want to thank their commitment to public health in a limited situation but who find themselves unable, as they themselves indicate, to meet this demand—and a neighbouring, Counsellor, who is tired, is full of so many lies, is fed up with so much dismantling and is filled with so much contempt. I believe, Mr Counsellor, that social outcry and unanimity in these demands is so evident that the municipal corporation, on numerous occasions, has stood in favour of reversing these cuts. In the replica, if you like, we'll talk about it. But it is also true that, on the other hand, those agreements that were reached ended in the drawer, ended in the drawer. But, as we do wish to comply with our word, the question is quite easy, Counselor. Will you provide Soutomaior, Soutomaior's public health, with more doctors to avoid the constant collapses that we are suffering from in primary care? Will you respond to the social and neighboring cry that is expressed day by day in the neighborhood of Soutomairo and its municipal corporation? Will you, finally, Counsellor, end the shame that we are suffering from in the primary care of our municipality?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u212	Thank you, Mr. Lourenzo. Answer from the Health Counsellor, Mr. Julio García Comesaña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u213	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Lourenzo, it is the duty and custom of the Government of Greece to listen actively to the demands of citizenship and to combine these with fairness in the distribution of the resources available at every moment — including human resources, to those who refer to this question and what we are going to consider. The council of Soutomaior, as it happens with other areas of Galicia — and unfortunately — is losing population. In the last ten years this loss has been almost 9% — to be exact, 8.75% —. For the provision of health services in primary care, there is a health centre in Arcade and a peripheral consultancy in Romeriz, as you know very well. This consultant closed at the beginning of the pandemic for failing to comply with the minimum measures for protection against the spread of the virus. They both belong to the Arcade-Vilaboa primary care service. I want to emphasize that this decision was for the safety of patients and for the safety of professionals. The attention of both centers, Arcade and Romariz, is held in morning shifts, from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m., and from Monday to Friday. And this activity is concentrated in the center of Arcade, which has hosted the team from the Romariz office and where it is possible to make that separation from circuits to — I repeat — protect patients and professionals. On Sundays and holidays the attention corresponds to the continuing point of attention of the Parda, in the city of Pontevedra, as well as the working days from 3:00. On Saturday morning, the ordinary shift is at the Arcade Health Center. Soutomaior City Hall is hosting a total of 5,671 health cards in the primary care service. This is the official, public and transparent data of the patients assigned to this health center, not the 7,000 you just commented on. There must be some mistake. Of these cards, 868 belong to the pediatric cup — children under 15 —. For the coverage of the remaining 4,803 health cards, there are three family doctors, who did not have in the last month — to mention a period — absences exceeding one day on time, so there were therefore always two optional ones — as is customary in any health centre in the territory of Greece —. And unfortunately, you know that there's zero unemployment in family doctors, and much more in primary-care pediatricians; and in summer and punctual moments coverage is always done this way. On the other hand, there was no incidence on the coverage at the pediatric level or on Saturday mornings. I would point out that right now, today, the delay of appointment at the Arcade Health Center is between three and four days for a family doctor and that he does not reach twenty-four hours on the pediatric appointment. In reference to Ponte Sampaio's office — and as you have just indicated even if you did not put it to your question — after making a small reform, which was possible in that center, an isolation room was enabled and opened again on September 14. And today its delay is less than three days. So, Your Honor, we always listen to the demands of our neighbours and our professionals, we act and take measures that will enable us to meet our objective...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u214	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u215	...to improve health—in particular, make it safe.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u216	Thanks, you've got another shift. Mr. Lourenzo's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u217	Counsellor, you have to coordinate your speech because you have, for example, the Mayor of Soutomaior of the People's Party, because in these days he was announcing an increase in population of 300 and peak people, who logically will have an impact on health care. But to collect the data, for example, in neighbouring municipalities with Soutomaior and 6,000 inhabitants, we meet four doctors. In Soutomaior, with 7,500 inhabitants there are coupons — I insist, because I would like you to talk about the coupons — of 1,600 patients per doctor. Do you consider, Counselor, that it is reasonable and legitimate that our neighborhood should suffer this kind of health coupon? And you also referred, Counselor, to the consultation of Romeriz. But, really, agree also with the demands of the People's Party of Soutomaior! Because they, on the one hand, say it's the responsibility of the Galician Board, which doesn't have more doctors. And at Galliza's board, they're saying it's the responsibility of the county because the health center, the Romariz office, doesn't meet the conditions. And that sounds like it, Mr. Counselor, they're laughing at the face of Soutomajor's neighborhood. So I just wanted to clarify to you, Counselor, that this situation is unsustainable. There have been several mobilizations of the neighborhood and, if they don't leave us another alternative, that'll be the way we have to go. But I'll tell you more. This morning, President Feijóo did an exercise, I think it's absolutely inappropriate for a president of the Union, establishing a correlation between health care and election results in Verín. I urge you, without at all sharing that logic, to which you, Mr. Health Counsellor, do the exercise that proclaimed your president, take a look at the election results of Soutomairo and value yourself if the demands of Soutomairo's neighborhood in defense of his public health are legitimate or not. It's a shame and, if we don't have more alternative than mobilization...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u218	Thank you, Mr. Lourenzo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u219	...in the mobilization we will be.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u220	Close the question by the Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u221	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Lourenzo, I just said, on the one hand, that there is 5,671 TIS in Soutomaior. You're talking 7,000. There really is an important difference. [[Murmurs.]] And with these 5,671 health cards, discounted kids, the ratio is not 1,700, nor 1,600. It's true that there's an optional that has 1,600, but the rest are below that ratio. Well, but they're below. [[Mr. Lourenzo Sobral utters words that are not perceived.]] It's not 1,700, Mr. Lourenzo. In any case — I repeat — I did not speak at any time that it was a problem of the Soutomaior Town Hall. What I'm saying is that Romariz's office doesn't have the characteristics to be able to make a separation of circuits, and that's why health professionals — and I suppose the population — have willingly agreed to bring down the Arcade, where it is possible to guarantee this safety for patients and professionals. In any case, we are not closed to any action in that council, and, in fact, in this year's budget, we are going to reform the Romariz consultancy and, if so, reform the Arcade Health Centre, or even put a better alternative on the table to actually improve, as we do in many other municipalities, the infrastructure situation of this municipality's primary care. And in addition, those infrastructures would allow, on the one hand, better safety for patients and professionals, and they would probably also better accommodate the incidences when an optional takes a bass — which can happen to all of us, to you or to me, which can happen to us that we can't come to work tomorrow, or that the distribution of health cards between the optional group is easier to do with a structure that makes it easier for you to do all that. I repeat, we are not at all closed to any type of study. And, of course, if that's what's best for the inhabitants of Soutomaier County, then we'll do it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u222	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and two other Members of the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block, on the actions planned by the Government of Greece to ensure the attention and assistance needed by the persons in need of the emergency aid service approved on an extraordinary basis
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u223	Have the floor to Mrs. Rodil
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u224	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Good afternoon, too, Counselor. Today we asked him from BNG about the future of the aid service in the extraordinary home, which ends on November 30th. And above all, we wonder why rights and attention will be guaranteed to people who today are users of this service. To put it a little in context, during the closure of all non-essential activity, day centers, rehabilitation centers and other centres or services to support older people, dependents or persons with disabilities were cancelled, which forced that population to stay at home. The dependency rating procedure was also suspended, which prevented the incorporation of new users into the home help service. That fattened pretty crowded waiting lists already by itself in many municipalities in the country. To alleviate this situation, the Board has made available to the municipalities a 500,000-hour-extraordinary grant of free SAF for users. When the board announced the hour bag, it did not indicate to the council when it would be the date this service would end, nor would they even be able to incorporate new users from September 30. They received only a few weeks ago, that is, a brief communication through the web, which indicated that it ended on September 30th and that, from November 30th, it was finished, that it ended this extraordinary service. This causes many people who have access to it to be without this service and cannot be included in ordinary hours that have the Town Councils, hours that are insufficient in many cases to care for the people who need it, who must wait – – I insist – on waiting lists until hours are available. That's for people who are linked to the SAF by the Dependency Act. Then there are those who still expect to be valued, who expect to join the service and those who can't afford that help or home care if they don't have the city halls free time. In the middle of the second wave, a large part of the population is also in a perimeter closed situation and there are limitations of entry too. And even if they reopened day centers and other services, they can't be lent in the same way. They didn't even solve the problems, and the pandemic, of course, didn't finish. So we, from BNG, don't understand that this service has been completed right before the end of 2020. That's why we ask you what's going to happen to that extraordinary SAF and, above all, how will it be ensured that those people who need that attention right now can count on the support they need. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u225	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Reply by the Social Policy Advisor, Mrs. Fabiola García Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u226	President, ladies and gentlemen, very late. Mrs. Rodil, as you well know, the Galician board launched last April a service of a temporary and extraordinary nature to help in the home. This service of help in the extraordinary home was born to provide temporary attention and urgent attention to all the people who needed it during that situation of exceptionality motivated by the coward, for at that time, as you said, day centres, occupational and disability centers were closed and there was a generalized confinement. All these activities therefore remained closed at that time by caution, or on the recommendation of the health authorities. As you well say, half a million hours of home-help service were distributed among the Greek municipalities, half a million hours a hundred per cent free for people who perceived it. And they dealt with situations aggravated or caused by the health pandemic, such as those of the users of the day centers that remained closed, or by other particularly urgent cases. Over all those months, and thanks to an investment by the Galician Board of 6 million euros, the relief service at the extraordinary home provided a service to 3,500 people throughout Galicia. And we can say very clearly that this home help service has fulfilled its duties. And although the health pandemic continues to be a reality right now, we are now in a context that is significantly different from that of the month of April, because the day centers, the day centers of older people, persons with disabilities and occupational and therapeutic centers work practically normally; so I must always acknowledge the admirable work, commitment and professionalism of all those responsible for all these day centers, the responsibility of all workers and also the strict compliance with health standards by all users. And now is the time, therefore, for these exceptional aids to make the usual system of regulated benefits. And this, of course, doesn't mean that you stop paying attention at home, or that you reduce various accounts, but that dependent people will still have at your disposal the support service in the dependency home with 8 million hours that we have distributed from the Galician Union to all the Greek municipalities. And people — as you say — who, without being dependent, need that urgent attention also have at their disposal a help service in the home of free competition. Both one and the other services are offered and lent by the Greek municipalities, although they have very important financial support from the Galician Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u227	Thank you, Counselor. Mrs. Rodil's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u228	Thank you, President. We ask him -- and I leave the question to him -- are how many, of those 3,500 people who have been treated with the extraordinary SAF, would need to continue maintaining that help and they won't be able to access the service because the ordinary and free competition hours that the municipalities don't have enough to give them access to it. I agree that the situation is not the one we had when we were in the state of alarm and confinement, but it is also true that the situation is not resolved, that the crisis has not ended and that, in addition, we saw how many people who could be grade 1 or grade 2 in an assessment at the beginning of the pandemic were today very damaged or very advanced their personal deterioration and need access to these support services. We, from the BNG, what we ask you, advisor, is, first, planning and coordination, and that decisions are not made unilaterally or to create 500,000 extraordinary hours or to give them for finites from day to day without even counting on the opinion of at least the local entities, who are the ones that directly manage the service — although they have outsourced their services in a company. Secondly, to maintain that increase of hours for precisely — in collaboration with the municipalities and seeing how to co-finance it between the two administrations, or even incorporating the provincial deputies themselves — give access to the SAF people who are on the waiting list for dependency assessment, which are many people. Because in our country there is even two years between being rated and being able to access home or dependency help service. There are municipalities – – I insist – that they do not have enough hours of free competition to meet the needs of their neighbours. And finally, that also those people who because of the causes of the pandemic themselves need it — and so they value the community social services — can access the home aid service; a service of which we are urgently going to have to talk about it again to see how to change the management model as well as funding.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u229	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Your time is up. Close the question, Madam Counsellor for Social Policy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u230	Thank you very much, President. Mrs. Rodil, the strong commitment of the Galician Union to the attention of the elderly and the attention of the disabled and dependent people, we demonstrate it every day with facts. As I explained earlier, Galicia is the autonomous community with a higher percentage of attention to older people through the home aid service, with about 33% — twice as much as the average — around. And, as you well know, they are professional workers who pay the best care and best attention to older people in their own home, in their own home. And most of them tell us that they want to continue living in their surroundings. This assumes that more than 24,000 Galicians and older Greeks receive professional and highest quality care at their own home. And these figures that I'm reporting, even though they're positive, don't lead us to conformism in any case — as I moved you today to your companion — but they always motivate us to continue to improve in a service that directly impacts on a better quality of life for all the older people in Galicia. And that's why tomorrow's board of directors will examine a home aid reinforcement plan that will allow you to attend your own homes to over 6,000 older people. Because guaranteeing the best attention to our elders is a responsibility of the Galician Union and that we will always, always, assume as a priority responsibility. We continue and will continue to work always to give older people the quality of life they deserve so much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-25-DSPG014.u231	Thank you, Counselor. Before you finish your session, you'd like to transfer some information. The Centre for Transfusions in Galicia is periodically coming to Parliament. He figured this is the first time he's been here since we started this legislation. They very much appreciate the prayers, of course, because the needs are what they are. Parliament has always been doing so, as far as possible. We do not have a great task within Parliament, we are the ones we are, but since we are at the beginning of legislation, and there are many new Members — and also very young, too old, who are in favour of giving, because I would like to thank you, and so do the Centre for Transfusions in Galicia, which we have given you a hand. It's just an act of great generosity, and it's also healthy. So if we can do this, because nothing, thanks a lot to everyone.
