ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-01-DSPG002.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of Parliament, so we do not proceed to its reading. Mrs Vázquez has justified her inattentiveness to this plenary session, and we are fully involved in the development of the agenda. Promises or oaths to abide by and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute for the Self-Government of a Member of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-01-DSPG002.u2	As a preliminary point, we proceed to the promise or oath to abide by and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute for the Autonomy of Galicia of the new Mrs Maria González Albert. This is done by complying with Article 7.1 of the Regulation. Therefore, I am seeking the promise or oath to abide by and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Galician Autonomy Statute of the new Member. According to the procedure, the formula is to answer "yes, I swear" or "yes, I promise" to the question of this presidency. I'm asking you to answer the question I'm going to ask you. Mrs. Maria González Albert, do you swear or promise to abide by and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute of Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-01-DSPG002.u3	I promise, as a legal imperative, to comply with and enforce the Constitution and the Statute, as well as to defend the public freedoms and national and social rights of the people of Greece.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-01-DSPG002.u4	Thank you. Once the promise has been given, you shall acquire the full condition of the honourable Member. Welcome to Parliament. [[Applause]] We continue with the agenda, and to that end I ask the Secretary of the Bureau of Parliament to read the agenda of this plenary.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-01-DSPG002.u5	One point: Proposal for a candidate for the Presidency of the Galician Council, presentation of its Government and election programme (Articles 15.3 of the Galician Autonomy Statute and 136 of the Galician Parliament Regulation).
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-01-DSPG002.u6	Thank you. Proposal for a candidate for the Presidency of the Galician Union, presentation of its Government and election programme, in accordance with Article 15.3 of the Statute for the Self-Government of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-01-DSPG002.u7	Therefore, and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the programme shall be presented by the candidate for the Presidency of Galicia. Mr. Alberto Núñez Feijóo has the floor for his show. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-01-DSPG002.u8	Mr President of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Party, the Galego Nationalist Bloc and the Galician Socialist Party, invited in the House, the Greeks and the Greeks, this investment session culminates in a process that began on 10 February, the date of the decree which dissolved Parliament and, with it, the X legislating of our autonomy. The Galicia that we have before us almost seven months later, after we are forced to speed up the April 5 celebrations by the coward-19, the Galicia that we represent today by the citizen will finally expressed in the July 12 elections, is very different from that moment. Any illusion we had then is now conditioned by the countless uncertainties that generate the pandemic. Any positive data has diminished by its effects. Any challenge is subject to its evolution and any step forward that we make will be marked by the deep emotional rift that causes how much we suffer and we will continue to suffer, especially the 644 families the coronavirus seized from a loved one before time, and also all those who couldn't say good-bye from their proximity and the grips we need when someone dies. He has come up with a new historical circumstance that compels us to live with a pandemic, and this means bringing with us the pain that it means in so many Greeks. With much more reason, in this Parliament we are obliged to respect so much suffering with our forms and with our deeds. Of course, my duty is to keep it in mind. [[Applause]] There are more than 3,600 people affected by the virus in Galicia right now. The vast majority, 95.7% of the total number of infections, is overcoming the disease in their homes, but there are 17 people fighting in intensive care units and 143 who are in hospital plants. Since March 8 the first person was released, 12,771 won the virus, but some of them have physical or psychological sequels. And unfortunately everything indicates that there will continue to be new infections, as we said months ago. All these people, like those who are already suffering or will suffer the social and economic consequences of all this, they also demand an exceptional response for an unprecedented moment, and we have to give it to them. Of course I will. This is the fourth time that I request Parliament's support to preside over Galicia. I've always come proud of my people, and today even more for the determination he's faced with such a difficult moment. I have always come to realize the responsibility it entails, and today even more so, because no other legislation — not even the first, in full economic recession — presented as many needs and challenges as there are now. I've always come with illusion, and today even more, because, despite all the obstacles, I'm convinced that we can overcome ourselves as we have done before. And I've always come with the vocation to keep Galicia united, and today even more, because it's not the time of selfishness but to work together for the common good. Ladies and gentlemen, the autonomic executive who will have Galicia, if I have the confidence of this House, will be prepared to continue ruling from the first day and for all citizens. Like those who have voted for us, those who have supported other parties — whether they have been represented or not — can be sure that the future government will be theirs as well. It will be the government of all, without exception. I don't devise any other way of ruling. [[Applause]] The unity that is needed at this moment also requires this House, which, after a few unusual months, is back in operation on an ordinary basis for three reasons that I would like to expressly acknowledge. Together with the Basque Country we were the first territory to organize elections during a pandemic and, as a people, I think we can be satisfied by the date chosen, by the execution and by the citizen's response. The experts pointed to July as the safest time to hold elections. I will not take account of what the different parties have said in this regard. I didn't do it or I'll do it because I understand that what counts is the experts' opinion. They had a great responsibility, but they assessed us, they advised us, and in view of the fact that this clinical committee of the Galician Health Service was right when I proposed elections in July. We must also thank the organization of the errands for the people who have kept an eye on everyone's safety. For history they'll have done a great job. And, above all, the Greeks showed their participation in the polls, above any logical fear, unbreakable adherence to democratic values, for the good, and also for the bad times. Ladies and gentlemen, I will never tire of thanking the new absolute majority harvested by the People's Party in Galicia. Many analyses were carried out on it, as were also done on the remarkable rise of the Galego Nationalist Block — so again I congratulate its members — or on the results of parties that formed and formed the coalition of the Central Government, or also on the disappearance of forces present in the past legislation and other parts of Spain. However, I see a mistake that we are only left in party readings, because what is decided at any beginning is not the situation in which each training remains, but what the people say for their own future. And we must know how to interpret it to be completely useful to you at this complex moment. In my opinion, beyond acronyms and candidates, stability and moderation are the main winners of the elections that make up this parliament. [[Applause]] The victory of stability comes from the majority conviction that it is the best formula ever, but even more so to face the many uncertainties that we have today. The stability given by a government that is not a beginner, because any experience is little to deal with a situation like this. And the stability that gives a solid and undivided Government, therefore capable of making decisions that are necessary, without internal pulses, without more submission than the general interest. The second - I said - was the victory of moderation, that nothing has to do with weakness, indecision or ambiguity; quite the contrary. The moderation that the Greek people advocate is synonymous with determination, respect and humility. And that's positive for management and coexistence. In management, moderate policies allow for calm and effective changes, constant and safe, such as those we apply in the 2008 crisis. In living together, moderation unites, because moderation facilitates encounter points that are not feasible with doctrinal theses. I think I'm not mistaken if I say that to elect a government, and also to form opposition, citizens received more moderation. Therefore, it would be fraudulent to answer them now by hardening our respective positions from each party. I won't do it, and I hope you don't either. They don't understand this as a purely rhetorical request. The moment we live really requires everyone's involvement. I appeal to the spirit of understanding that the Greek society has shown in these months, which we must now reproduce in this chamber to face the two major challenges we have: the health challenge and the socio-economic challenge. We must continue to work in common. That is why I want my first concrete proposal today to constitute in this Parliament a committee that will enable us to define together the pact of reactivation that needs and deserves our land. Ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic is proving everything; also politics, which in recent years has not always been up to circumstances. Many citizens will wonder if even a situation like the one we live in will make their representatives better. Our duty is to prove to them that yes, that Galicia is. That forces us, first of all, to tell them the truth at all times. We've addressed citizens who have demonstrated their maturity by trying to look after everyone. In recent months, many sacrifices have been made, they have put up with great civic restrictions on rights and freedoms, they have adapted to new obligations and prohibitions, they have had exceptional behaviour. And bad response will be given to them if we now underestimate the situation or if we are wrong about the instruments we have and those we don't have to deal with. Ladies and gentlemen, at the last session of control of the past legislation, on February 5, I said that Galicia has had a good evolution in recent years. I reflected, for example, that he recorded the highest gross domestic product in his history. Well, that Galicia that had been growing for five consecutive years, which reached employment levels prior to the 2008 crisis, which consolidated its recovery and excitedly prepared the best Xacobeo in its history, now suffers the blows of these last few months. Today's reality is that society, economics and well-being are being severely affected. So I'm not here - and I hope neither do you - to promise four simple years. I didn't do it in the election campaign and I won't do it today, because the Greeks didn't choose me to lie to them. What we live for is no longer a crisis. If the 2008 crisis was tough, what's about to come is very hard. And although there are quite overwhelming predictions, the truth is that their dimensions are still unknown. Unfortunately this is the case, and so we have to tell the citizens. We must speak with transparency because it is our duty, but also to raise awareness of collective responsibility, especially in view of the evolution of infections in recent weeks. We have to assume that the month of August was demolition. At present, in Spain, about six thousand seven hundred cases are again diagnosed daily, and in Galicia above the 200 sixty daily cases. To a greater or lesser extent, the whole nation recorded a clear rebound that was expected all over the world, but that comes before the predictions that the Government had transmitted to us, and again with more force in Spain than in other countries in our surroundings. In this context, there are responses that are appropriate for organizing different administrations, but we need to be aware that no government should fight the virus without citizen collaboration. Being scrupulous, each person contributes to the progression of the contagion. If anyone relaxes, caress about the hygiene of their hands, the use of masks or physical distance, there are consequences that we all pay for. And, of course, we have to be ruthless about irresponsible behaviors, of those in Galicia we have suffered some particularly regrettable example. Prevention is the most valuable thing we have to protect ourselves while there is no effective vaccine or treatment in the world. All we have left after prevention is the restrictions, with all that it means. And that's why we have to keep insisting: if we relax and trust ourselves, we will retreat and confine ourselves. I want to address the young and not so young, all those people who, because of their age or physical condition, feel invincible against the virus. They're wrong. 80% of the cases detected in August are under the age of sixty; more than half, under the age of forty; a quarter, twenty-five or less. Most of them coincide with parties, family gatherings or recent trips. They worry about them, but especially because in many cases they are asymptomatic that continue the line of infections until they reach more vulnerable people, as unfortunately is already happening. The average age of the deceased in Galicia with curfew-19 since the beginning of this new increase in cases is 83.6 years. So, among all of us, we should try to prevent this trend from continuing, taking care of older people, as would older people. Is there any doubt that our elders would put everything on their side, everything they needed, all that was in their hands, all that and more, and all the time it was necessary to protect us? As far as we want, we all take care of ourselves, and we especially take care of our older ones. As far as we're concerned, let's take precautions and comply with the rules. As much as we like, let's keep trying. [[Applause]] Galicia must continue to be an example for Galicia, by its exhausting result. And throughout Spain, Galicia has to remain an example of sentiño, with measures to protect public health and with measures to protect the economy and collective well-being. Those two objectives will mark the immediate priorities of my Government if I gain the confidence of this chamber, without neglecting the challenges we had before the pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, in an investment session like this, the usual thing is to present a roadmap in the medium and long term. I will, too, because Galicia of the new decade had drawn up a pre-covid strategy, which we will certainly not give up. I'm summoned by every measure that we set out in the electoral program to achieve a more familiar Galicia, a younger Galicia, a more innovative Galicia and a more open Galicia. And, yes, I'm fully aware that the first thing we're about is the emergencies, the emergencies generated by the pandemic. That's why my duty is to make it clear that the most important moment in legislation is this. It will center the first and most of the intervention, because probably no other challenge, however big, will be at the level of what we play in the next weeks and months, and I hope not years. The result depends on us, but also on what Spain we're part of achieves as a whole. My commitment is to continue working with the central government, as it has so far, supporting what is right and marking what we can all improve in, because that's also loyalty. To warn about errors, such as delays in national alerts or constant changes in criteria in data, to denounce the central government's inaction in key areas, such as the homes of older people, to regret the lack of a single leader in the acquisition of material or in the course of school, to surprise us by ignoring requests as basic as those we have done to reduce the EVI by 21% of the mandatory-use masks or to reject the legal strategy being developed is compatible with recognizing the efforts of most members of the state executive and wishing them to do everything they can. Ladies and gentlemen, I see neither Mr. Sánchez nor Mr. Churches, leaders of one party or another; in this situation I see only the Government of our nation. Both they and the autonomic leaders know that the Greek people have been, it is and will remain at the disposal of the common interest. Join us in the objective of getting out of this with the greatest possible strength, and nothing, absolutely nothing is more important than that. There is nothing more important than continuing our efforts to maintain as a Community data that, in the midst of so much pain, encourages us in the field of health; as being one of the least affected communities of the virus - fifth at this time - with the lowest lethality rates in Spain, with the lowest rate of hospitalisation - together with Asturias and Extremadura - with fewer serious patients in relation to the population - the second - or with less mortality in residences than in Spain - seven times less deaths than we would have in the population -. And there's also nothing more important than avoiding among all a second generalized confinement. We need the economy to work to keep counting on the resources that finance public services, and we need not to tear down the productive fabric as a whole so that what works will help the sectors that are being irremediablely affected. With maximum health care, we all need to protect ourselves. With the greatest determination and energy of all of us, we all have to work for everyone. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, at a public meeting on March 13, I said that we all had a duty to meet this crisis, but not all of us would have the same responsibilities. Over this time, and political apart, there is no doubt that the greatest weight has fallen on the more than 40,000 professionals who guarantee the functioning of hospitals and health centres. And more specifically, in those who care for foster patients and in the thirty-five professionals who form the Clinical Committee and study each situation, each risk and propose each measure. They do it with uncommon rigor and effort, and they do it as they ask us all to respond to this threat: without giving up in any circumstance as hard as it may be. We'll never thank you enough. In fact, the health challenge is the most important, conditions everything else. And as I told you, we're at a critical time, because evolution in Spain is bad, and in Galicia, even if there's less impact, too. The incidence in Spain in the last 14 days is 205.5 cases diagnosed by 100,000 inhabitants, placing us at levels equivalent to those of April 2. We are again the European country with the worst evolution and we multiply by 2.3 the incidence of the second most affected nation, France. In Galicia this indicator continues below the national average: 123 in Galicia, 205 in Spain. But the trend in Galicia is also negative. It is true that there are 99 municipalities without new cases in the last two weeks, 130 municipalities without new cases in the last seven days and nearly 200 municipalities without registering any cases in the last three days. But we must be aware of the evolution of the most affected areas and at all times protect residences and centres of disability. The current situation is 161 active cases in residences, which means 0.57 % of the total users. In this context, in Galicia we reacted as we did from the very first moment, even before the Spanish ensemble had publicly warned about the coronavirus. They know that already in February we constituted an interdepartmental commission of the Galician Union, we started on 1 March hiring the first professionals in the field of public health and we increased the stocks of respirators to the point that we are now able to triple the number of critical beds compared to before the pandemic. We react, we go ahead on many occasions to the rest of Spain, and they can be sure that we will continue to do so at every moment. But I also say that it will be easier and more effective if coordination at the national level is broad and permanent. Spain has a serious problem if it normalizes that there are only two alternatives to cope with the pandemic: either the sole command of the central government or the absolute decoordination. The communities have our role, and the central government must also assume its role, which is not to centralize everything or to inhibit everything, but to accept that it has its own powers to exercise so that others can also perform those that correspond to us most effectively. The Government of Spain has to lead the response to a pandemic that affects the whole nation, it has to ensure that security forces and bodies ensure compliance with the laws, it has to equip itself with the necessary means and detect whether there are standards to improve; and, of course, coordinate with autonomous communities, with alarm status or without it, on issues that are common. If not, why are there 22 members in the central government?, why are there ministries that manage competences consistent with autonomy?, why is there a social vice-presidency if nothing has to do with residences?, why is there an education ministry if there is no responsibility in school?, why is there a university ministry if there is nothing to say in the organization of higher education?, why is there a territorial policy ministry if there is nothing to coordinate? The State of autonomy is a state, it is not a set of states; therefore, the Central Administration cannot be a mere observer who refrains from acting now. Because that's not co-governance, gentlemen, that's ingovernance. [[Applause]] With that conviction we will continue to advocate that greater coordination is essential to protect ourselves more and more. And, of course, we will continue to exercise our powers supported by the health emergency decreed on 13 March and since that time it has been fully effective, supported by the response plan to outbreaks that have been operating in Galicia since April, and above all supported by the clinical committee that advises us permanently on the three key action programmes: detection, care and adaptation. And I'm going to refer to them now. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to carry out intense detection work with all the people involved in tracking tasks, with family doctors — who are having a key role in this field — with the members of preventive medicine — who follow the cases at the hospital level — with the teams of the Health Council, the central services and the territorial heads, and announce that with future incorporations, such as those that the Ministry of Defence has made available and that Galicia has already requested. And also with the reinforcement of the structure of the public health department, which requires dimensionalizing and adjusting to the pandemic that we live in. Tests, tests and more tests are the road marked by the World Health Organization and we're not going to deviate from it. We were the first community to launch the "Covid-auto", we prioritize health professionals, in residences each new incorporation is submitted to a diagnostic test, and we also carry two complete barrels of the 25,000 people who reside in the said residences — and we're going to start the third. We also come to the collection of especially exposed groups: the Civil Guard, Civil Protection, children's school workers, who today start the course, schools, institutes, pharmacy professionals, local government officials, home help workers, etc. Integration into the Radar Covid App is being promoted and we are waiting for its entry into operation in mid-September. And, above all, before each outbreak, a test strategy was adopted to make early diagnosis, isolate positive and maintain close contacts. We currently do an average of 4,400 daily tests, i.e., 178% more tests — only PCR tests, in addition to complete antibody tests — than we did at the peak of the alarm state. That's how we're more effective, and that's why they're detecting more cases. But we want to take one more step. As you know, we have been pioneers in the use of the pooling technique — which currently analyses jointly up to 20 samples and will have the ability to reach 60 joint samples. And we propose that we return to it with a new system of massive tests from saliva samples that are being planned at Vigo hospital and that we hope to consolidate during the month of September. Let each person from his own house collect his own sample, record it through an app and transmit it to be evaluated on robots with the ability to analyze 100,000 tests per month only in this technique. It's a qualitative leap to make major assessments, which we'll logically prioritize in the health areas and also in large workplaces or affluence. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the tests, it is inevitable from a certain point of view to apply restrictions, such as those in force at the moment. In some cases generally for all Galicia and, if necessary, more intensively where there is a greater incidence, as we have done in the areas of Coruña and Lugo in recent weeks. We will take the necessary measures, being aware that no one is infallible and with humility we will also recognize that success in the containment of the first outbreaks — for example, in Barba and the Marine Lighting — will be increasingly difficult if among all we do not reverse the Community transmission that is back in Spain. At this point, I want to send a message of calm to the Greeks: we have a great health system with the ability to pay attention that is needed. As a people we have decided that public health was one of the great collective works in our democracy; as a government, we have improved it in the last legislation; and, as president, health remains my highest and main vocation and commitment. In short, we had a great public health. [[Applause]] We believe it by giving one of the best responses from all Spain in the first wave of the pandemic, and we also prepare it to respond to the second: we maintain the reinforcement of health professionals hired; there are reservations to increase ICUs — and today is only 3.6% of the total available ICU beds in Galicia—; we meet the requirement of hospital beds — still fortunately, currently occupied only at 1.7 per cent —; we count on the TELEA platform to track home patients — we have reached more than 4,300; we have the capacity to lift campaign hospitals if necessary; and there are stock of materials and channels open to acquire what is necessary and we are prepared to intervene the residences that suffer the greatest impact of disease, as we have recently done at Incio. And beyond the timely reinforcement that this crisis compels us, I also want to underline that it remains in force the strategy that we had before the coronavirus for public health. First, because this crisis has shown that it has been a correct investment in health care in recent years and, second, because we also owe it to all the Greeks who suffer from other pathologies that are different from the coward. I would like to tell these patients that they suffer from other pathologies other than the coward-19 that we are aware of what they also suffer, that the management of the pandemic influences on day-to-day hospitals and health centers, and that it would imply for each case that the contaminants are released again and force again to limit the ordinary activity of health centers. Ladies and gentlemen, last year Galicia was the fourth community with the lowest average surgical expectation of the entire national health system. It also recorded a higher surgical performance — almost 40,000 interventions more than the year we did in 2009, 23% more. It improved the rate of consultation, with an average waiting time of 40% lower, and also the effectiveness of primary care, which today derives from hospitals 13% less cases than a decade ago. Thanks to all this, according to the health barometer, the Greeks valued their public health more than ever in history, especially in emergencies and primary care. To keep this data — and more rightly still in a pandemic context — complete the comprehensive renewal of the Galician Health Service will be a top priority in this legislation. It will be at all levels, starting with primary care, because we know that it plays a fundamental role in this crisis and also in a normal situation. [[Applause]] In the same way that in the last eleven years we have built or renewed 74 health centres we will drive those who are missing — other 39 centers — in this legislation. And we will continue to implement the 2019-2021 Primary Care Plan, which is equipped — as you know — with 100 million euros, which has already enabled more stable wage improvements and contracts and which will have the necessary updates to continue to overcome the pandemic. Even so, we will end the impulse given in the last decade to hospital care. Just like we built the new public hospital in Vigo and put it into operation and fully equipped the public hospital in Lugo, we built a new public hospital in Coruña to double its current surface. In the same way that we transformed Ourense's public hospital into a new hospital with an income building in the first phase and with the second phase currently underway, we will also transform into a new public hospital in Pontevedra, the Gran Montecelo, the new public hospital in Ferrol — already under construction — and extend, as the commitment, the public hospital in Santiago. In the same way that we have completed the expansion of the public hospital in the Navy and we are pushing its second phase, or equipping the public hospital in Salnes with new surface and new services, we will include new improvements in 100 percent of the city hospitals: in Verín with a new emergency service and CAP; in Monforte with a new day hospital and pharmacy; in the boat we will reform the facade, external consultations, the day hospital or the larger outpatient surgery area; and in both Cee and Barbanza we will end the expansion of the emergency facility. Finally, we will fulfill the word given and this legislation will be that of the completion of a new Galician Health Service. A hundred percent of the Greeks will have a new or renewed public health infrastructure with up-to-date technology. [[Applause]] In addition to completing the health centres and building the new hospitals referred to above, we will continue to incorporate new rights and services, as we have done in previous legislations. Just as we introduced the free choice of doctor, pediatrician, nursing staff and hospital, or access to the second opinion, will include new pathologies in the decree that guarantees maximum waiting times. Just as we have improved the provision of services — for example in hospitals, such as Hemodynamics 24 hours in Lugo and Ourense — in this legislation home hospitalization will reach 100 percent of the Greeks. Just as we set up the rapid pathways for certain diseases, we will now renew all breast cancer diagnostic technology, extend the cervix seizure to all of Galicia, continue to promote colon cancer to achieve more participation and start new ones, such as lung cancer or certain rare diseases. The same way we incorporate new vaccines into the calendar or new treatments, such as hepatitis, we will strengthen the service portfolio of the comarcas hospitals, starting with day-to-day hospital empowerment. Just as in recent years we've been betting on hospitals with more technological means — hybrid chirophanes — now we're going to start robotic surgery. And we will bear in mind, ladies and gentlemen, that the pandemic is a damage to the mental health of many people. Therefore, in this legislation, as already committed, we will develop the greatest mental health plan in our history. We will create new units, for example, in the field of child-care, and the Galego Health Service has already planned to hire more than 200 professionals to give better attention to people with mental health problems. Ladies and gentlemen, I mean detection and health care, but, as I told you, we also need to talk about adaptation, about the adaptation we have to make in all areas, and about combining security with activity. For this reason, we have already supported the various sectors to develop appropriate protocols - trade, industry, primary sector, tourism - and we will continue to work with everyone, recognizing that in many cases there are no instructions at national level - which would be advisable - that to comply with the rules requires great effort for the whole world and, of course, that, as we try not always to be right, the revision of the protocols must therefore be constant. Over the past few months, citizens have adapted to their jobs, day by day, to their customs; they have assimilated a new context with a majority responsibility. So we also ask ourselves if our adaptation was complete, if we respond as we were due to the weaknesses that the first few months of the pandemic have left undiscovered. Well, I want to refer to four issues in which I believe we have pending issues: health legislation, health professionals, senior residences and education. After all this time Spain follows exactly the same health legislation as it had before the pandemic. It's incomprehensible. You can understand the state of alarm in the beginning because we suddenly faced something new, but it is inexplicable that after these months, with a second wave above us, we continue the same. We're talking about new normality, but the mechanism given to us to deal with a situation similar to that of March is still exceptional; it's neither new nor normal, because the state of alarm is extraordinary, whether it is requested by the President of the Government or whether we are asked by the autonomous presidents. It's essential to ensure agility and legal certainty in outbreak control actions, and there's no need if we're subject to the criteria and times of each guard trial to make decisions or if the only alternative is that we're approving "an alarm stadiums" each community with a different criterion. That is why we are in favour of modifying the regulatory framework which governs Spain as a whole and collecting in the homogeneous instruments to make homogeneous decisions, which, logically, each territory must adopt at the appropriate time, but with a common criterion and with a single legislation. Convinced of this, this week we will refer our proposal for organic health law to the President of the Government himself, and we will do so in accordance with my commitment to the Conference of Presidents. I also confirm to you that in this initial period of legislation we will send to this House a reform of the Galician Health Act. They know that so far the updating of autonomous legislation has been impossible, Parliament was dissolved. But, fully recovered from legislative powers, this rule seems to us priority for five reasons: firstly, for greater effectiveness when urgent measures must be taken at all times by ensuring proportionality; secondly, to achieve the maximum of these measures, maintaining, of course, some flexibility in response - for example, we see it appropriate to introduce regulation on mechanisms that have been proven effective, such as the registration of people from other territories in different epidemiological situations -; thirdly, to collect the role of new technologies in the law; fourthly, to clarify the competences of the local and autonomous administration; and fifthly, to update the sanctioning matter and make it consistent with the orders we gave last week in this field. Another issue, in addition to health legislation, is the stability of health professionals. The question of health personnel is shared by all administrations, but I am not sure that we are responding to facts in addition to respect, applause and words. They deserve more stability and that is why we will continue to insist on the central government that it is urgent to eliminate the rate of replenishment in public employment offers for health workers. [[Applause]] It doesn't make any sense to continue to ban more professionals than retirees, nor does it make sense that the Administration is obliged to make a multitude of temporary contracts when what it is to avoid them. They also deserve greater reinforcement, because there are key areas in which generational relief should be ensured, such as primary care, pediatrics and mental health - as mentioned -. The number of new doctors who form each course - which also depends on the central government - must ensure the incorporations that are needed in these areas. And thirdly, they deserve more recognition, always, and even more at this moment; so, as far as the future self-government is concerned, we will propose to improve their working conditions in line with their efforts and professionalism. Ladies and gentlemen, the emergency caused by the coward-19 also had a great impact on social services, not only at the human level, but also because it triggered a collective reflection on the future of residences. The situation in Galicia did not reach the extremes at which it was seen in other territories thanks to the anticipation and intensity with which it had been worked since the first time. Before the declaration of the state of alarm and before the Central Government published its criteria, Galicia already had a residency protocol. The health authority has taken care of all residences, both public and private. We strengthened the staff of the residential centres with more than a thousand people, we launched the first integrated residences several days before other communities, which would follow our example, we intervened, as I mentioned earlier, in private residences with a high number of contagions and we have a complete reactivation plan that indicates how visits should be developed, the exits of residences and when and under what circumstances they should be restricted if there are outbreaks. There was less affect and mortality in the Welsh residences than in other parts of Spain, but, of course, we cannot conform because we had to cry too many losses and because the protection of the elderly should be as much as possible always. Our goal is to perfect the response mechanisms in the residences before this or any other emergency, and that's why there will be even more health in the residences, because we will approve a protocol of relationship between them and the public health network focused on improving patient follow-up and progress in teleassistion. We will put in place a permanent training plan for the workers of the centres and social services in Galicia, we will address the renewal and technological support of the centres, we will strengthen the inspection, among other measures, and we will develop a new regulation that regulates the conditions for opening and operating the homes of older people. We will continue to do our best, and we will also count on the rigour and professionalism of the workers of these centres. We are aware that the practice of all dependent staff has demonstrated in these months a great commitment and professionalism that deserves all our gratitude. Of course, where bad practices are detected, it is necessary to detect and denounce them, but exceptions cannot disturb the meth and dedication of most. Why? Because it wouldn't be fair. [[Applause]] Another idea where adaptation is basic is education. We're worried about the start of the course because we're talking about the most important thing we have, which is our children, our daughters, the generations that guarantee the country's future. Over the past few years, Welsh education has advanced in key areas in which we intend to continue to deepen, overcome sterile struggles and opened public education to multilingualism. Today more than 100,000 students are taught in a third language and we are committed to continuing to increase this number every year. You've seen infrastructure improvements. Since 2009, more than 850 educational centres have been built or renovated, where 220,000 students are studying, and we will continue with the training. There has been a more accessible public education, which we will maintain with more public dining facilities, with the largest school transport network, with help for books and materials and with the lowest university rates in Spain. And there's more technology available, since there are over 120,000 students studying in digital classes; targets that, of course, will be strengthened in this legislation. Only in this course will we acquire at least 14,000 new computers. Galicia may be proud of its public education because, in addition, the results believe it can be. In the results of the PISA report, Galician education exceeds the average of Spain and OECD average in all the competencies assessed and there is the lowest drop-out rate in the history of the autonomous community (from 25.8% of school drop-out in 2008 we went to 13.5% in 2018). But, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to pride, I also want Galicia to feel safe and at ease with the education we have given to the boys in this difficult course that will begin and for as long as the pandemic lasts. It's normal to face it with concern, too, that marked elections in unheard of conditions and with all the fears that then happened. Finally, I think it has been resolved successfully. Surely zero concern will never be achieved, but families and the rest of the educational community must know that the Union is doing and will do everything in its hand and that at all times the Clinical Committee of the Galician Health Service, which has given one of the best answers to the Spanish pandemic, is working in this area in a special way, in the educational field. That families face the beginning of the course with concern is inevitable, that they do it with confusion is a regrettable fact for which we must apologize and that we must resolve. I do it regardless of who has more or less responsibility because I think the administrations can do it better. Until last week, to the days of the date initially set to start the course, the Interterritorial Council was not held to deal with the common protocol for the opening of the school in Spain. And it seems that finally the Conference of Presidents of this Friday will have education at one point on the agenda. I want to make it clear that I didn't feel comfortable in this delay in the preparation of the course, nor do I observe how central government partners go through this matter with each other as if it were a hot potato from which no one wants to take responsibility. But I'm not going to listen to that either, because the opening of the classes is my job and I'm worried. The course must begin with maximum certainty, and so Galicia was one of the first communities to count on a proposal for the new course - presented in July -, the first to have instructions adapted to the national protocol agreed throughout Spain last Thursday and also to be adapted to the latest recommendations of the Clinical Committee. In this way, the cloister that is now incorporated into the centers has a roadmap from this day one and, in the same way, for parents to have all the information needed before the course starts, the Education Council will organize telematic meetings with families to explain all the measures directly. Afterwards, the management teams will also have the indication of specificity in each centre. Ladies and gentlemen, the German children will be back to classes step by step because we think that makes it easier for them to adapt to the news that's going to happen. They will return to the safe, reorganized classrooms when the distance recommended by the Ministry was not necessary in the current spaces. In these classes they will be professionally subjected to a full-fledged job, as we are performing tests for all the educational staff and for all the staff working in the educational centres, both the public and the concerted. Galicia, which was already the community of all Spain with more teachers per student — 10.5 boys per teacher in front of 12.5 students per teacher in the average of Spain — will add the teachers needed to attend the new school map. And at the disposal of the entire educational community there is a list of preventive measures to comply: firstly, the most important, the requirement of the mask from 6 years old; information on what to do every day before going to school or institute; protection measures such as those relating to classroom ventilation several times a day and the cleaning of the center; as well as double shifts or masks in the dining rooms; scenarios for a possible outbreak situation; and a virtual teaching plan for when these outbreaks occur, because everything indicates that, unfortunately, they will occur. Among all of us, with maximum safety and maximum certainty, we must work to get the course started, because, ladies and gentlemen, children need quality education. Their parents cannot become their only teachers and teachers must be beyond the computer screen. Education, especially in smaller or more difficult situations, will be less education if it is not presentable, because the figure of a teacher in front of his students, the relationship they make personally, is indispensable and irreplaceable. That is why we must aspire to the course to begin, with all concerns and without losing sight of the epidemiological situation, but we must aspire to the course to begin. I understand the concern and share it as a father and as an educator. All sectors felt it, those who never stopped and those who returned to activity. They all answered with great professionalism, and that's why we must not accept that no one questions or tries to boycott the teachers and the rest of the educational workers. [[Applause]] Just like the staff of hospitals - especially those of emergency, infectious and critical units - adapted their service, in which thousands of people enter every day, like the workers of supermarkets, who live with thousands of citizens who buy near them, like those responsible for opening up tourist establishments in security conditions in which citizens enjoyed their vacations, like the workers of small, medium and large businesses that every day perform their duties, the educational community must also resume the course with the rhythm that the health authority advises, with the greatest responsibility, knowing that the zero risk, unfortunately, does not exist, and with all the vocation of giving our children the best training. I'm convinced the educational community will do it well, and it will do it well, as always. Ladies and gentlemen, the course begins with all guarantees is essential for no minor reasons; it is essential to preserve the quality of our children's training, and for more reason in the case of disadvantaged families. We cannot forget in education and in all the fields that Galicia must emerge from this more coherent crisis, no less, more solidarity, not less, more equitable, not less. During the first weeks of the health emergency, Galicia unveiled a social plan of continence to support families who have to live on the day and who were the ones who suffered the most impact of the first uncertainties; it shifted to the maximum that allows the law to access Risga so that more than 1,600 people were new beneficiaries of the Risga - i.e., 15% more than they had previously received it - provided home care, 100 percent free of charge, over 3,000 older people and expanded the service of Eating at home to reach 1,700 new Galicians who live alone - increasing more than 20% - ; and they gave help to about 60,000 families, with a school lunch bag, both for children's schools and institutes during the pandemic. In this way, we managed to soften the first blow of the pandemic, along with the commitment they showed hundreds and hundreds of Greeks from administrations, from NGOs or individually to care for the most vulnerable people. The exemplary behaviour of Galician society inspired us to put in place a social recovery plan that is still in place today with 60 million euros. For 1,200 families with no incomes or very low incomes, we gave a basic card of between 450 and 900 euros to acquire first-needed products, in addition to a 50% increase in the share of social inclusion aid. For families with children or dependents in charge, we offered just fines Special Care, with 500 euros a month to hire home care, which have already requested more than 1,800 families; for 730 families with minors in foster care, we increased their remuneration by 25%; for vulnerable children, two new protection centres; and to ensure continuity of fundamental social services, such as child schools and day centres, extraordinary lines of help to compensate for the time they had to remain with their suspended activity. Ladies and gentlemen, we also bear in mind that the fight against masculine violence cannot be neglected at any time. We haven't done it in the last few years and that's why we've kept regular support and guaranteed support in psychological, judicial or counseling during the pandemic. At the exceptional time of the alarm state we put in place a victim's relief plan. And we will continue to work in this legislation, for example, by creating 4 public ownership information centres to improve and coordinate the 82 that exist at the municipal level and also by encouraging them to continue to reach the rural area. The path to Galicia of well-being also goes by bringing to all families the resources to live as dignified as possible. In the past eleven years, our community has doubled funds for the fight against poverty. Thanks to that, and to the legislative improvements, like the new Risga decree, the security network that assists the most vulnerable families is stronger today than it was eleven years ago. Now, this can't lead to conformism. The consequences of the pandemic will strain our social fabric and we must be prepared to react, resource-based, normatively-ready and politically-ready. The fight against poverty must be based on consensus in this legislation and not on dissensuals. [[Applause]] In an area where it is difficult to dissociate the autonomous competences of municipalities, coordination is capital. In the last few months, we have shown that it works this way, in addition to desirable, it is perfectly possible. I have nothing but praise for the work of the Greek municipalities, for the vast majority of them. It must continue to be like this. I have always defended from this forum that collaboration allows to exercise more widely, efficiently and correctly the functions that we have assigned, so I am sad to read information that points to the fact that the Minimal Vital Income is not being dealt with with with in the agility that is currently required. According to the data we have, only 0.5% of the people who apply for it are accessing the Minimum Vital Income. Still counting on families you've already granted automatically, this benefit is reaching less than 10% of your potential beneficiaries. The serious bureaucratic impasse we are living in can be a sign of the effectiveness of a measure that the Government has announced as historic and that it could be if it had been put into practice properly. I'm not going to remember the warnings we made to most autonomic managers or most NGOs about the ways in which it was negotiated and approved the measure and the method of management that was selected. If I would like to move forward the position that the Galician Council will maintain if this House gives me confidence to be its president. First, our community will continue to demand the management of the Minimal Vital Income. As I've moved several times to the President of the Central Government, after thirty years of dealing with Risk, the Autonomic Administration has the professionals and the experience necessary for this benefit to arrive as best as possible to the people who need it. Neither the majority of the Greeks nor myself understand the reasons why some communities have already been committed to managing this help and others have denied us, even if the paralysis is such that when three months are completed from the publication of the Minimum Vital Income in the Official State Gazette, they were not even satisfied with the management order to the two communities -- two single communities -- that, according to the Government, they were worthy of doing so. Secondly, and in parallel to a claim that we believe fair - the direct management of this income by the autonomous communities - Galicia will design the mechanism for a part of the risk budget to be directed towards complementing the Minimal Vital Income, ensuring that it is, yes, linked to the socio-laboral insertion of people who perceive it. Our community will also be looking after those people who are in a more extreme situation. We will continue to work to avoid evictions and facilitate housing alternatives to the people who suffer them. In addition, in this legislation, the measures collected in the Home Care Plan will be developed, which particularly affect access to housing. We have the conviction that having a roof is the best way to start a social inclusion process. We are aware of the difficulties of many Greeks, especially the younger, to access a home. It can get worse in the current context, and that is why we will continue to prioritize this task: through the Social Rental Bond, which during the pandemic is covering 100 per cent of the income with the money of all the Greeks through the budget of the Union; with new aid for the acquisition of protected housing, both new and rehabilitated, from up to 20,000 euros for families with less income; encouraging the emancipation of young people with a rental program with a choice of purchase; and also promoting the mobilization of empty housing, a goal in which we have worked a lot over the last few years. More than 33,000 families in Galicia have help from the Board for Rent or Rehabilitation, and our goal is that there will be more and more, because having a decent housing is a key goal for anyone. Of course, under no circumstances can the constitutional right to housing be exercised in collision with the freedom or property of other Greeks. Like most citizens, we are concerned about the illegal occupation of housing; it damages the coexistence and attention to the values that make us strong as a society, and, like the rest of Spain, it is growing worryingly, so it must be reacted at the national level with speed and consistency, changing the appropriate legal regulations. [[Applause]] The difficult weeks in which Spain has been confined made us appreciate more, if any, the importance of having a home in condition. But our thought was also with those who have a home but not with whom to share it. Older people living alone need support, companionship and affection. To get you closer, we have the home aid service, which, after these eleven years, reaches 16 times more homes than before. Dinner at home or the teleassistation service, too. We'll still be next to him. In the coming months we will present the strategy of attention to unwanted loneliness, which will identify this problem and propose measures to solve it. It will also be reopened with all health guarantees or the door-to-door care bus, which in 2019 has travelled 20 municipalities and will lead to 200 municipalities optical services, podology, cognitive stimulation, etc. I have the conviction that older people must be active subjects, not passive, of this society. His voice must be heard with attention, appreciated and respected. The older Greeks have the right to decide how they want to grow up. From this philosophy we will extend a pioneering initiative like the homes of the largest, which in this legislation will reach 100 percent of the municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants. The first 30 are already in operation and the order has been launched for another 30 houses of the largest. We will also strengthen the public network of older residences for those people who, because of their degree of dependence, need more intensive support. In the first half of this Galician legislation there will be seven of Europe's best residences, which we project with the financing of the Amancio Ortega Foundation in the main cities of Galicia, and will complement with more public squares in those areas where there is a greater demand. If in these eleven years we can increase by 44% the number of squares available to the most dependent people, up to 2024 we plan to rise this percentage to 80%, creating 2,000 more squares. [[Applause]] But all this, naturally, we can't do it alone. The financing of the dependency care system cannot almost exclusively lie on the shoulders of the autonomous communities. Of the EUR 383 million that Galicia is intended to care for dependents, three-quarters come from the Autonomous Community, contradicting the law, which establishes a 50-50 breakdown. Since 2009, investment in dependency on Union has increased by 95% and state funds by 24%. I hope this is the legislation in which the Central Government pays this debt to the biggest and disabled people in Galicia. That doesn't mean, ladies and gentlemen, that in our community we don't have any pending matters. Despite the sharp increase in public squares, despite the impulse to work integration of people with disabilities, despite improvements in accessibility, there is still room for improvement. Many people spend too much time waiting for their degree of dependency or disability, a situation that was accentuated during the pandemic. For them, we commit ourselves to speeding up and simplifying the processes necessary to access public services and services. In this same line, in the near future, we'll have a useful tool for people with disabilities to access a centre that meets their needs and preferences. I'm talking about the decree of the social concert, which is already being processed and we hope you'll soon see the light. Let me also reiterate my commitment to justice, a service that is also being strongly pressed at the root of the pandemic. It is a priority for the Central Government to develop a plan for the reactivation of judicial bodies successfully and with sufficient funds. It has all the support of the Galician Union. For our part, we do not give up continuing to complete neither the technological renewal nor the completion of the judicial infrastructures that we need. In fact, in the same way that in recent years we have invested 100 million euros in technological renewal and infrastructure in the cities of Ourense, La Coruña, Santiago and Ferrol, which have new judgments available, we will continue to work and, for example, we will end the City of Justice of Vigo, the largest judicial work ever done in the history of Galicia. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, there are and there will be difficulties that we must protect because the economic situation is very complex. We are already suffering the consequences of the pandemic, like the rest of communities and countries. To this is the uncertainty about the outbreaks, and the effects of the measures to be taken to contain them. And in our case there are also the worrying forecasts for Spain, which point to the greatest fall in the gross domestic product of the European environment, unprecedented in our history. We must accept it realistically because this is basic in order to be able to anticipate, without passively waiting for events. And we must face it with hope because we are past moments of recession before. If Galicia is the second largest community per capita GDP in the last decade, it has reached the highest convergence in income with Spain in the historical series, struck export records until the pandemic arrived, reduced the unemployment rate of 12.6% that we found in 2009 to 11.95% today or changed the course of sectors that were falling, such as the naval or the automobile, if we were able to achieve this, it is because as the people were able to reverse the fundamental crisis that also marked an investment session like this in the first of my legislations. That experience must move us. There are also places of hope at present where we can support ourselves to meet the present challenge. For example, GDP drop data - although very hard - reveal at the moment a better behaviour of Galicia than the rest of Spain. In Galicia GDP falls 14.5% and in the rest of Spain 18.5%. Employment destroyed in the second quarter is recovering at the highest rate than the national average. In Galicia, 81.85 % is recovered from 31% of the state. And the same thing happens with ERTE. Galicia was the fifth community where the number of workers fell faster in this situation, with an intensity of eight points higher than the set of Spain. And in addition to data, we also have our collective strength. Like I said, I'm counting on all the groups of this camera. If every day Germans who were voters of the Socialist Party or the Nationalist Block or the People's Party of Galicia work and fight together, we also have to add efforts in search of realistic responses to the economic and social consequences of the pandemic. The reaction will also be more appropriate if we continue to count on the productive fabric, with its vision and experience, as we did in Galicia when we set up the Committee of Economic Experts. I want to thank all your members for their willingness and transfer them as well that their service to Galicia is not over. We'll still need them. And, of course, social dialogue. Social dialogue is a key tool for drawing up measures that bridge the current situation and drive the path of growth. Social dialogue proved very useful to take the first steps during the pandemic. For example, in the Galician social dialogue he agreed and managed to be one of the first communities to make it easier for workers affected by an ERTE to charge an advance on his payroll when the government had not yet entered it. For example, in the social dialogue we act as aids to complete the minor benefits of workers affected by temporary employment regulation records and for people from 50 to five years who have lost their jobs. For example, in social dialogue we have done a new digital training programme aimed at unemployed people over forty-five years of age. And also in the social dialogue during the pandemic, we approved a package of extraordinary conciliation measures to help families, including surpluses and day-to-day reductions by care of minors or older. All of them - yet - are initiatives that emerged in the midst of social dialogue during the months of the first wave. That's why my intention is to strengthen the conciliation framework we already had. I announce that my first decision together with the appointment of the new government will be the call of the Social Dialogue Bureau, precisely to draw together methods and objectives. [[Applause]] Methods and targets to alleviate the crisis, but also to get strengthened out of it and design Galicia in 2030, supported by four axes where we've been working as you know: a more familiar Galicia, a greener Galicia, a more innovative Galicia and an open Galicia. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not hide that a determining obstacle to coping with the future is the uncertainty we have about public accounts. Galicia had until the arrival of the vault-19 a healthy financial situation. We've been able to maintain self-government. We don't need any help involving the loss of control or intervention of our autonomous farm. We have been the Community which has increased public debt the least since 2008 and which it now pays its suppliers the best. That data, which, of course, we continue to aspire to, is now overcome by a limited number of unknowns about the financial situation that we have in our communities and that we must dissipate as soon as possible. Since this crisis began, most autonomic presidents have called for the holding of a Fiscal and Financial Policy Council. None have been celebrated. And it's essential because autonomy, which we're assuming important tensions in order to meet the skills we have, we need answers and decisions. As is the case with improving the functioning of the Conference of Presidents, so that it will be useful and truly an area of agreement. First of all, we need to talk again about the €16 billion fund that is qualified to meet this year's expenditure, because it is proving insufficient. But in addition, we remain absolutely opposed to the criteria set out by the Government, which in the case of Galicia only in the first instalment of this fund loses EUR 83 million in relation to the percentage that would correspond to the current financing system. Secondly, we disagreed that the social area had been eliminated from the bottom, although Galicia had already provided for seventy-six million and a half resources in the social area, while the Government had sent only 18.9 million, and 43% of them to the municipalities. And thirdly, because it must continue this year 2021. There are costs that will be structural for several years - in health and in education especially - and for this reason the Government should enable a similar fund sufficiently endowed for the year 2021, the covered fund 2021. Within the restriction of uncertainties, second financial necessity: the central government continues to do not outrun the 370 million it owes to Galicia, as well as to the rest of the autonomous communities, for the monthlyity of the VAT it is unpaid and for the incentives for compliance with the tax targets, which since 2017 remains unpaid. Third. The finalist funds for employment were also not transferred, funds that just confiscated us, and that in the case of Galicia amounts to 100 million euros. We continue to demand access to them. The logic would be to expand them into a new socio-laboral reality that recommends strengthening active employment policies. Fourth. We still have no information to draw up next year's budgets, which at the moment - as you all know - should be in the process of drawing up. We don't have any information. We don't know, we don't know the expenditure ceiling, the forecasts, the advances on the account, the public deficit targets, the percentage of the debt allowed, that is, we don't know anything. Fifth. We disagree with the agreement reached with the Presidency of the Spanish Federation of Municipalities — against all parties, except the Socialist Party — regarding the surplus of the municipalities, which corresponds to the neighbours of each municipality. And sixth place, very important. The situation in Galicia with regard to European funds needs to be clarified. The agreement reached by Spain at European level meant, with the current procedure, a loss of 40% of the European funds over the previous Community period. Which, of course, you will understand that we cannot accept. I have already asked the President of the Government to reconsider at national level because it is essential that we prepare the future with a minimum of economic and budgetary planning. Seventh place. We've been complaining for years since June that the fund-sharing system, which was born ejaculated, is being updated. It goes through a reform or updating of the system of self-financing that can no longer be postponed and that we should negotiate between all of us, thinking more about people and less about territories. And, eighthly, we must enable a system to ensure that communities participate in the management of the recovery fund approved by the European Union, which I shall return to. In addition to the financial situation of administrations, it is very important that we do not aggravate the problems we already have. It would be totally incompatible to talk about reconstruction and, at the same time, let go of companies that make up thousands of jobs. [[Applause]] The central government must put an end to the uncertainties generated in the industry settled on the coast with a new law of back that gives rise to consensus and the defence of employment; also of the jobs which it guarantees to Ence for five thousand families directly and eighty thousand families who live in wood. It must look for alternatives that guarantee an industrial future for districts dependent on Meirama and The Bridges. Sail through the future of Navantia, especially to cover the void that is due to the delay in the construction of the frigates. To guarantee an electric price that brings stability to the intensive industry, so that it can compete on equal terms with the rest of Europe and because five thousand families in Galicia depend on the energy price for the intensive industry. And it must be involved in materializing the viable and stable solution for Alcoa. There's an option. And we also have the word that the President of the Government gave me personally. Of course, I believe in that word and I will work with it to achieve the goal that we all share: to keep industrial activity in the Navy shining and saving thousands of jobs at stake. [[Applause]] Among all of us we must create an enabling climate so that the economy can cope with the present moment, and of course Union too. With this conviction we approved in June the Reactivation and dynamisation Plan, with EUR 3,043 million of public-private investment. And as we have already done, we will bring it to the committee which is set up in this Parliament to further strengthen a package of measures in three areas: measures to deal with shock, measures to encourage reactivation and measures to accelerate economic transformation. Logically, the most urgent thing is to deal with the initial shock. And that's why we've reached all the funding mechanisms within our reach for industry and the rest of the productive tissue. For example: tax holidays in Greece until November 2020, acquiesces of the depreciation quotas of the first half of the loans of Igape and XesGalice, agile payment to suppliers, loans of up to 200,000 euros that already benefited 2,200 companies and microcredits with which we credited 100 percent of the interest to small entrepreneurs and self-employed, and Igape Reply became a single window to advise entrepreneurs; all possible, ultimately, to provide liquidity and support the maintenance of the activity, because that was the first. In a second phase, we also assume our responsibility to contribute to reactivation. For example, we recovered the 100 percent of the public work that was being carried out in Galicia prior to the state of alarm — the first autonomous community that recovered the entire public work, with 508 works that are supposed to maintain 5,300 jobs — we made the conditions of access to the business soil owned by the Galician Union flexible, we approved new lines of funding to help companies reinvent themselves in a new context where almost nothing is like before — the transformation and digitization of commercial spaces is perhaps one of the most illustrative and successful examples of this – we helped to generate a copper material industry in Galicia with nearly 12 million euros which, for example, enabled a capacity to manufacture about one million masks every day in Galicia. Let me refer at this point to the people and sectors who are particularly affected by the crisis. Logically the people most punished by the crisis are the unemployed, or those people who see their work and income reduced. It is necessary to give them specific answers and that is why we redefine a new employment agenda that plans to mobilise more than 225 million euros and benefit more than 65,000 unemployed Greeks. We address the main challenges that must be faced in the labour market, which must be prepared for the technological transformation of businesses and self-employed people and facilitate the coexistence of different forms of work — present and telework —. The crisis is also not affecting all sectors in the same way, and we need to be fully aware that hospitality, tourism, the leisure and party sector or street sales are suffering very much. I appreciate everyone's collaboration in a moment of great uncertainty for them. Decisions such as the closure of night leisure establishments are necessary at certain times to contain the progress of the pandemic, but logically they have economic consequences to take into account. In this sense, we will continue to work together with the sector in a reactivation protocol for when the health situation allows the gradual reopening of the premises and funding to which they can access. I also want to acknowledge the efforts of the whole tourist sector in preparing for the summer campaign, which we are trying to contribute to a shock plan of EUR 58 million and of which 75% of the measures are under way. Galicia comes to months of holidays with the most done duties and that's what we're in between communities with the best tourist results. And with that impulse we will continue to work to resist but also to move forward. Because this crisis — I told you — also calls us in the medium and long term and puts before us the challenge of coping with the transformation in which we were already immersed but that we need to accelerate. First, the transformation to an open Galicia. We were already on our way to an open Galicia driven by a successful tourist model and the horizon of a decade that will celebrate three Jacobs. Over the past few years, we have increased by more than one million the figure of annual tourists, we have grown by all variables, we have consolidated a new tourism model that is more decentralized and more deseasonated, we have doubled the number of foreign tourists. It's true that the pandemic has profoundly transformed our reality, so it's essential to reformulate Xacobeo. And we're doing it just four months from the start and thanks to the advanced work, which allowed us to have a proposal and a very early diagnosis. The Jacobean decade that we are about to begin must be, beyond a celebration, an economic tool in which we must try to support ourselves. In the tourism field it will be a competitive advantage at a time when all destinations seek to reinvent themselves and adapt to a new scenario of uncertainties. In Galicia we started a world-renowned event that has been promoting the values that all today seek for their destiny — not only in the tourism field, but also in the cultural field. In the cultural field it must be a revolutionary for our creators to resume their activity, an event that promotes the design of products and formats and encourages demand to build and consolidate country projects in the long term. After a collective impact as deep as the one suffered during these months, Jacob may be — and we are going to work for it — a support for not only economic recovery but also emotional recovery from the Greek people. [[Applause]] Transformation, secondly, towards an innovative Galician. Ladies and gentlemen, we must also keep moving towards that most innovative Galicia. That doesn't mean giving up what we already are, because the strategic sectors of our economy are called on to follow it. We do not give up being leaders in the fisheries sector, but we must continue to be innovative in responding to the challenges of marketing and ensuring more sustainable new work formulas. In this sense, they're ready to walk in the first shells of the legislate, the Marisqueo Action Plan and the Handicraft Coastal Fishing Action Plan. We will also pay attention to the consequences Brexit has in such areas as this. We also do not give up many of the Greeks still living from the countryside, but we must continue to innovate to move forward in their modernization, to continue attracting projects for the transformation of the dairy sector and to continue to increase ecological agriculture. We don't give up our historic industries, like naval and automotive, and we're going to keep innovating and continuing the bet decided by their modernization. And we don't give up gambling for new sectors without tradition in our economic history, but with special growth potential, such as aeronautical or biotechnological, because that's also innovating. But, in addition to our own conviction, we are forced to follow that path of innovation because the European Union is going around too. In this sense, the fund enabled at Community level is a window of opportunity that we cannot take advantage of. And that's why it will continue to be a priority for us to support tool pemmes 4.0 and the industry in the betting by the smart factory; also that advanced manufacturing centres continue with the first ones that are already approved, such as the ICT of the Crown, and continue to accompany entrepreneurs in the marketing of innovative solutions to the vault, as we have come in these months; and of course by supporting Galicia innovative in digitization, which in this context is absolutely essential. Thirdly, the transformation to the green Galicia. The European reconstruction fund also reinforces our commitment by the Green Galicia, calling on us to deepen the challenge of the sustainable economy. And Galicia is in it too. We will continue to bet on a strategic sector for our economy as the forest, and in particular we will launch the line "Use wood" to encourage construction or rehabilitation from this material. Also due to the growth of renewable energies. Galicia is the second autonomous community with the highest renewable power, with production equivalent to 88% of our total consumption, and we will continue to work on its impulse because we want this percentage to reach 100 percent. We are finally called upon to accelerate economic transformation, and Galicia is ready. In fact, as I told you, we have already asked the Central Government to involve the communities in the plans for investments and reforms it is developing, and this Friday I will ask again at the Conference of Presidents. We must sit down so that in the autumn we can bring Europe a plan agreed upon by all. Of course, Galicia is willing and has already designed the first tractor projects, which, in our view, fit perfectly into the philosophy of the European fund: the installation of a green hydrogen production plant, the establishment of a centre for the impulse of the circular economy and the creation of a sustainable textile fibre manufacturing centre from the cellulose wood soluble that allows a strategic sector to be diversifyed for Galicia. It's three tractor projects we've been working on for months. Ladies and gentlemen, only these three projects are worth more than EUR 1 billion investment, but our commitment is to continue with additional initiatives, which we will design with experts and with the most innovative sectors. That's our goal, because they fit into the bet for making a planned, orderly, fair energy transition. The ecological transition we would like to agree with the Central Government, rather than relying on closed doctrinal criteria, should be supported in reality. This reality is defined by regions in need of industrial reactivation, well-qualified workers and professionals and by industries that require gradual change and adaptation. We're not original at this point. Europe, without partisan distinction, follows this path which, for difficult reasons to understand, the Government of the nation of the moment has come to an end. Ladies and gentlemen, it is unquestionable that the arrival of this pandemic disrupted Galician plans as in the world. The families have reordained their habits and the institutions of our community have not been linked to this collective reorientation. In these months, the emergencies of the Government of Greece have changed, but not our commitments to citizenship, because our commitments to citizenship remain and will be fixed in the strategic plan that we are working on. The decisions we make and we will make to fight the pandemic will leave a cement in our community. Our job is to ensure that on that cement we can continue to build the Galicia we want and that we've been working for so many years. In this dark age it is difficult to look away, forward, but it is our duty to do so. When we overcome this situation together, which we will overcome, we cannot and must not find ourselves in the open without a plan that guides our steps. Before this crisis Galicia had shared goals, common goals and consensus routes to achieve them. We may have to change the travel plan, but of course we're not going to give up the fate we set ourselves. [[Applause]] The first of them, the first of the challenges we cannot renounce, is the demographic future. It's not that this demographic problem is a new issue. Today there is a broad consensus that demography must be at the top of the agenda of European governments' priorities. I trust that this collective feeling is reflected in this House, which will be an opportunity to demonstrate throughout this legislation. The Board approved this year the Galician Demographic Impulse Bill, a pioneering text not only in our community but at the national level. One of the first decisions to be taken by the next Government will be referred to this Parliament to discuss, enrich and give it a final green light. To address this issue with rigour, with the rigour we need, we must avoid falling into simplism, not just a cultural issue, not just an economic problem, not just a problem of conciliation, not just a problem of personal preferences, it is a combination of all these factors that any demographic policy must take into account to be effective. In that line are the measures the Demographic Impulse Act collects, some of which are already in force. In the week when the little ones in the house — today — start to re-enter the classroom, it is obliged to remember that the Greek families are the only ones in Spain who have a totally free childhood education for the second and second children. [[Applause]] The freeness of education for more than twelve thousand children is not an isolated decision. This is from the logical continuation to eleven years in which childhood education has lived in Galicia an unprecedented stage of expansion, with twice as many public squares, with new aids and new conciliation instruments as the children's homes in rural areas. Over the next few years, we will be building on the reconciliation beyond the limits of the children's school with funds so that companies can set up childcare services, with more support to hire kangaroos and a special reflection on schedules and flexibility, which is a matter that confinement has once again become a matter of great urgency. In addition to the conciliation measures, in these years we have also addressed households with children more economic aid than ever before. Since 2016 we have distributed 60,000 Welcome cards, with an economic contribution of seventy million euros for the benefit of families who have a child or a daughter. In this legislation that will begin, Galicia will again be at the forefront of family support policies, equating, for the purposes of income tax, single-parent homes or with two children to numerous families, and granting them a bonus of EUR 250 for each child from the third. Naturally, families with three or more children will continue to count on the unconditional support of this government. For them, as we compromise during the campaign, we are already very advanced in drafting the Plan of Support for Many Families, which will see the light before the end of this year 2020. Within this package of measures, these homes with numerous families may find, for example, discounts on all the rates of motorways of autonomous ownership, specific support for the numerous families of special type with five or more children, or reduced prices in the parking lot of the hospitals or other centers of Junta de Galicia. But demography embraces much more than policies of reconciliation and support for families; it is also the fixation and attraction of new population, territorial balance and equality, and it is policies for the younger and the older. Galicia of the future must present new opportunities for youth, and it is essential that they continue to have adequate training for present and future needs. Opportunities such as those guaranteed with the highest wager for vocational training, which today with 50% more enrolled and increasingly dual vocational training, and as well as those that guarantee universities through the renewal of the Title Map they are doing. Opportunities for both the boys who were born here and those who came from outside. Ladies and gentlemen, it's more and more people who want to settle down on our land. So in 2019 we were able to grow timidly in population for the first time in ten years. But since 2009 they have entered Galicia 46,661 more people than they have left. And, of course, our doors remain open to all those who want to come back, especially thinking of the second and third generation Greeks, who are living at a very difficult time in most Latin American countries. The Galicia of the future must bet on active aging, because our older ones are still having a lot to say and get closer. Galicia of the future must continue to take equal steps, because it is much that has advanced in this matter, but it must continue to move forward so that remains of machismo on our land. Galicia of the future must deepen in cohesion, so that opportunities do not depend on the place of our community where they live. The gap that still exists between rural Galicia and cities will continue to be reduced during this legislation. That's why we need to move forward in the allocation of infrastructure that reduces the time needed to move within our community. The same commitment that made it possible to renew the public transport lines and ensure that it is free for all under twenty-one years of age in all public transport lines in Galicia. The same commitment that made 80% of the Greeks already have less than fifteen minutes in our house a high-capacity track, which will also ensure that new progress is made. I'm talking about intermodality, which in this legislation may begin to take advantage of many Greeks; I'm talking about road infrastructures, where we will continue to work and, of course, the arrival of the high-speed train. There can be no more excuses — I suppose —. Galicia will not allow further delays in delays, nor any more breaches of non-compliances. We want a definitive calendar now. I don't think that's much to ask. [[Applause]] We are also very aware that, at the gates of the third decade of the 21st century, some of the most important infrastructures are not dedicated to people's mobility. In Galicia's "debe" there is still mobile connectivity in certain rural areas, something that poses major difficulties for its neighbours at the time, for example, of teleworking. To remedy it, Junta will lead and continue to lead efforts to improve coverage in areas where operators do not plan to do so. Because a vertebrate Galicia must necessarily guarantee decent Internet access at any point in our territory. The improvement of infrastructure is one of the fundamental tools to improve the vertebration of our community, but it's not the only one. In the last decade, an important policy effort has been made to move forward towards a more orderly territory, in which we will persist in the first stages of this legislation with two very ambitious laws. The historical problem of land ownership in rural will be addressed in the new law of recovery and value of Galician land, which will help identify abandoned land whose owners are unknown or imlocalizable and mobilize them to make them productive. And the land management regulations — the second law — will take a new step towards rationalizing them with a new law on this matter, which will make the procedures more simple and agile for the implementation of projects of strategic interest, whenever all legal and environmental guarantees are complied with. The urban situation of many small municipalities will also be clarified thanks to the municipal basic plans, and about thirty municipalities will modernise their urbanism with the approval of the new general municipal management plans. Sorting instruments should not pose unwarranted obstacles to projects that the Greeks want to develop, but on the contrary. The regulations we've been developing for years consolidates a more vertebrate territory, which combines the harmonisation of individual initiatives and businesses with the necessary protection of one of the most valuable goods we have: our landscape. Galicia has been betting on a development model that is compatible with the protection of the natural environment and the future of the planet. My proposal for next legislation goes through the circular economy, more rational waste management and historical reform in water resources management through the creation of the Water Sogama. [[Applause]] Galicia will also put its big sand to mitigate the causes of climate change and mitigate its consequences by developing the approved strategy last year. Our community, which is already a reference to renewable energy, will continue to work to reduce emissions. We will do so — yes - as we believe it is necessary to do: progressively, rationally and always looking for alternatives to the maintenance and development of the productive tissue. Responsibly taking advantage of Galicia's rich natural heritage is the best way to respect it. Making use of it and promoting its permeability with Greek society is the most effective way to preserve it. Over the next few years, we're going to favour that the Greeks, especially the younger ones, know our natural parks better. In parallel, we will continue to work on the Greek candidatures to the heritage of humanity. Atlantic Islands, the Iron of Illustration and the Sacred River are three jewels that we will leave our children and grandchildren with a recognition, a prestige and a state of conservation better than what we find ourselves. We will also continue the bet determined by the recovery of our urban heritage. In addition to boosting the rehabilitation of about 3,000 homes, mostly in historic helmets, in the wake of Rexurbe areas, we will launch a specific line of help so that owners with less resources can finish the buildings that have unfinished, respecting the indications of the Guide to Colors and Materials. Galicia of the future must love herself more, give more value to what is ours. That includes continuing to defend our language to open it to all ages, especially to young people, to all fields, such as economics, and sister languages, through the Lusophony. It also includes, of course, the talent of our creators. That's the purpose of the Strategy of Greek culture, which we have just premiered and includes more than 300 measures to support the key sector of our land. Ladies and gentlemen, the urgent can't make us forget what's important too. So these future structural challenges must continue to concentrate a part of government action in a variable proportion as the pandemic evolves. Ladies and gentlemen, for your immediate and not so immediate future, the Greek people have just issued an eloquent warrant in the polls. It makes this parliament composed of three forces, while it places positions outside the House which, in our view, are extremes of one sign or another, reaffirms the pluralism of our own land and facilitates the possibility of understanding us. The Greeks were called to the polls in a special social, economic and health situation, and I think they sent us a message according to the times in which we live. We can't ignore that call. They told us that Galician democracy is still standing, that they want stability, and they asked for a moderate response that demands from all of us an effort to get closer. That is why, as a candidate for this investment and, in principle, I hope it will be confirmed, with even greater support than on the previous three occasions which I have had in a debate like this, I would like to tell you that I am counting on all the Members and Members who are here today. For me, most of the people that the Greeks gave in the polls are not an exclusive mandate, but an inclusive mandate. I hope that the answer we have to give to the challenges and difficulties we face is not only that of a Union that has more support from citizens than in previous legislations, but that may be the answer from all Galicia to all of Galicia. [[Applause]] In recent years, in crises initiated, in the midst of crises and overrun crises, the Greeks have persisted in their way of being. They want to live in a united and focused land only as they move forward. The Greeks are like this, we are like this, we want to continue to be like this. I am a lawyer for not importing struggles that undermine the coexistence we have given ourselves through the Spanish Constitution and the Statute for the Autonomy of Galicia. I advocate asking each day in every decision and in every project: what unites the Greeks more?, what makes them free?, what makes them more equal? I advocate managing real problems — which are already enough — instead of adding other preventable and indispensable and artificial problems. And that's why I'm here and I'm asking for the support of this parliament. I request the support of this chamber so Galicia progresses undivided and united. [[Applause]] I request the support of this chamber so that the general interest always prevails over children's interests. I call for the support of this chamber to defend the priorities of the Greeks: health, employment, economic recovery and well-being. [[Applause]] I request the support of this chamber so that Galicia will continue to respond to the pandemic with the sentiño that characterizes us. I request the support of this chamber to work on the emergencies that generated this crisis, but without forgetting that there are goals, challenges and dreams to which Galicia should not give up. I request the support of this chamber for a Galician who acts like a family where we support each other, for a green Galician who takes care of herself, for an innovative Galician able to anticipate the future, for a Galician who trusts the young and their own future and for a Galician who, with all concerns, affirms that she can maintain confidence. I ask for the support of this chamber aware of the difficulties we have in the future, but also in the hope that gives me experience. I am convinced that Galicia will be able, as we have done at other times in our history. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, today's legislation is that of the coronavirus, but I'll put everything out of myself to end by being the legislating of understanding and the legislating of recovery, the legislating in which Galicia was able to overcome itself again. Galegos and Galicians, I'm at your service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-01-DSPG002.u9	Thank you very much, candidate. The intervention of parliamentary groups, in accordance with Article 136 of the Regulation, will be on 3 September 2020, Thursday at 11.45 a.m., twelve minus four. We did all this according to the extension of the candidate's speech. I remember: 11.45, next Thursday, starts the session. And in the meantime it is suspended. Good morning, everyone.
