ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u1	Good morning. Let's start this session. The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, so we do not proceed to its reading. I am communicating to the House that has justified its inattentiveness to Ms. Cristina Isabel Romero Fernández, for a mild health problem, and it is also not in this full Fr. José González Vázquez, Counsellor of the Rural Environment, for the management he is doing in Brussels. Even so, I inform the House of the in attendance and the voting delegation of Mrs Anne Belén Pontón Mondelo and Mrs Paula Vázquez Verao, by motherhood, that in the light of the provisions of Article 84.3 and 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the House they exercise their right to vote for this session in Mrs Olalla Rodil Fernández and Mr Luis Villares Naveira, respectively. The Bureau, at its meeting on 27 January 2020, authorised those delegations. And we're already on the agenda with the preliminary point. Promise or oath to fulfil and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute for the autonomy of Galicia of the new Mrs Anne Belén García Vidal
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u2	In compliance with Article 7.1 of the Regulation, I am seeking to apply for the promise or oath to abide by the Constitution and the Statute of autonomy of the new Mrs Anne Belén García Vidal. According to the procedure, the formula is to answer "Yes, I swear" or "Yes, I promise" to the question that we will ask from this presidency. I'm begging you to answer from the scene. Does Ana Belén García Vidal swear or promises to abide and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute of Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u3	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u4	Thank you very much. Once the promise has been made, you acquire the full condition of the honourable Member. Welcome to Parliament! [[Applause]] And let's start with the agenda, point one, legislative texts. Comprehensive discussion of the draft Law on the Management of the Territory of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u5	Amendments to the draft law have been tabled to the whole of the Joint Parliamentary Group, the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, the Left Joint Parliamentary Group and the Socialist Parliamentary Group. For the presentation of the bill, Mrs. Maria Ángeles Vázquez Mejuto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u6	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a very important day for Galicia, since we bring to this chamber the project from which will be the new Land Management Act. This law is the best evidence that the Government has made a determined and clear bet on the purpose of sustainable management, territorial balance and the protection of the landscape. A task in which we have been working for over a decade with rigour and seriousness since the Galician Union. This task has made it possible for municipalities, economic sectors and citizens in general to make available more than a decade of laws, tools and tools to achieve the true balance between urban and economic growth, between development and betting by the green and blue values of our territory. However, this law is not the only project that bears the stamp of this government, since it must add others to it, such as the Land Management Guidelines, the Land Law and its regulations, the Coastal Management Plan, the Territory Intervention Guides, the Autonomic Basic Plan, the Landscape Catalogues, the Municipal Basic Plans and the Landscape Pacts. The Galician Union is aware that urban legislation is the guarantee to ensure that the land management of each municipal term is coherent and equal for the citizenship of that municipality. In order to ensure that equality at an autonomous level, it is necessary to have an instrument of a supramunicipal nature that guarantees such opportunities and to correct any imbalances that may arise from the variety that presents the territory of Greece. With this new law, Galicia changes its normative corpus in the area of land management and protection and experiences a transformation of it, since we have to travel to the past, more specifically to the year 1995, to find the date of the entry into force of the law of land management that currently governs. After a quarter of a century later, let me affirm with roundabout two aspects: the first, which is out of date and the second, that the law must be modified in order to adapt its contents to the different requirements, especially those of an environmental nature. Finally, today we bring to the Galician Parliament a document of the Land Management Act, a text that was raised to the Council on December 5th and which was previously exposed to public information after the Board authorized the initiation of the preliminary draft law at its session on September 6th 2018. In the process of public information, the project was sent to all municipalities, universities and business and association entities; in total, 300 entities, of which allegations were made twenty-five. After evaluating all the allegations received, it was estimated that forty-five percent of them, thus enriching the text drafted by the Environmental, Territorial and Living Council, always seeking the greatest possible social consensus around the norm. We are before a law with several primal objectives, of which are fundamental, on the one hand, the simplification of the number of land management instruments with respect to which it is collected in the current standard. The law we propose sets out four instruments: Territorial Management Guidelines, Territorial Plans—within this figure, integrated and special plans differ, sectoral plans and, finally, projects of self-interest. Instruments that I'll explain to you a little bit later. Another new feature of this law is to establish a single processing procedure for all land management instruments, which will be subject to strategic or simplified environmental assessment as appropriate. Another objective of the Territorial Management Act is to achieve the principle of effectiveness, in order to avoid unnecessary administrative burdens or accessories, which implies rationalization of public resources associated with the processing of initiatives. Finally, in this review of the objectives of the law, it must be said that thanks to the creation of Galicia's Land Planning and Urban Planning Register, we shield the regulation of greater legal certainty, transparency and accessibility. In this log all land management instruments are inserted before their entry into force. So it turns out that for a management instrument to enter into force it will be a requirement for it to be inscribed in the said register. I mean, this log will be a guarantee of legal security, since we will be in front of its final version, to which both administrations and citizenship will have access, in general and in particular. In this respect, it should be noted that the broadest citizen participation has been promoted, both in the development of the law itself and in the management instruments provided for in it. We are convinced that the future Land Management Act will reinforce a number of issues that will improve the quality of life of citizens and make Galician a territory marked by an integral and sustainable development, betting on the rational use of soil that responds to real but also objective needs. This new law is also compatible and provides for the conservation of Galicia's landscape and cultural heritage. We make our motto: to protect and evaluate, and to care for, and to preserve. We must be aware that the soil is a very limited and also exhausting; it is a natural resource that is not renewable. Thanks to this new approach, among all of us, we will be able to make caretaker cities and villages — we must not forget that the principle of equality between all people —, welcoming and cohesion, with the set-up of actions such as green infrastructure — is a reality. I'm going to go a little deeper into the contents of the future Land Management Act that we bring to this parliament today. As is the case with all law-based regulations, LOT has surpassed a process of public information hearing and transparency; a process in which approximations were received that were introduced into its content. It consists of fifty-eight articles distributed in two titles, six additional layouts, three transitional layouts, one derogation provision and four last layouts. I'm not going to shake the law as a whole, but if I want to stop explaining in detail four figures, the four spatial planning figures collected in this law, which will be the four pillars that will ensure the security and rationality of the territory. The sorting tools that the pre-project collects have a cascade structure. At the top, we have the DOT, the territorial management guidelines, which is the first benchmark for all territorial impact actions. And below it we have, at the same level, integrated territorial plans and sectoral plans. The projects of self-interest, which are of direct intervention in the territory, are the last link, and its object is to plan and project the immediate execution of actions that go beyond the municipal sphere. It is about the Land Management Guidelines, which, as I mentioned earlier, continue to be set up as a global instrument, the general framework of reference, setting out the spatial guidelines for the settlement of activities, in accordance with social, economic and cultural policies. In this issue, we must remember that Galicia approved its guidelines in 2011 and that these do not have any major variations. Another novelty that needs to be highlighted is that the follow-up report referred to in this parliament will be triangular, with the aim of managing data and indicators that reflect greater evolution. Also in the area of territorial plans there are news, where the Land Management Act distinguishes between integrated territorial plans and special territorial plans, depending on their larger or lesser scale and scope of territorial condition. On the other hand, integrated territorial plans are directed at the organization of supra-municipal geographic areas with homogeneous characteristics or those that by their size in functional relationships require planning of land use, productive activities, infrastructure and commercial or integrated equipment. Special territorial plans can support special field planning requirements depending on the different characteristics, such as morphological, nursery, forest or landscape planning, which require consideration and unitary treatment. The purpose of special plans is to define the natural environment, in order to achieve balanced growth and improve the quality of life of its inhabitants. In Galicia we have several examples of territorial plans, such as the Coastal Management Plan, the Santiago Roads ITP and historic routes or the watershed ITP. Another very important aspect of the new Land Management Act is the management figure of the sectoral plans, whose scope extends so that it is as a rule for the entire autonomous community. Obviously, this does not mean that other minor areas cannot be covered. The main objective of this is to achieve a better management of the activities that can be implemented through this figure, so the sectoral plans are strengthened as an instrument that governs the entire community, so they can only be promoted by the public initiative. I would like to draw attention to this last idea by stressing that it is impossible to implement a sectoral private initiative plan, as regulated by the Land Management Act in force today. The reason for this decision is that we understand that self-planning of this type of activity only makes sense from the perspective of administration. Some examples of such initiatives are the Sectoral Plan of Business Areas, promoted by the Galego Institute of Housing and Soil, or the Sectoral Plan of Extractive Activities, dependent on the Employment and Industry Council. Finally, a sectoral plan seeks to manage the territory of a specific sector, setting the whole autonomous community as its scope. The new law makes it possible for a single procedure to be adopted simultaneously with the approval of the land management instrument and the modification of urban planning, in any case respecting the principle of municipal autonomy, of local autonomy. All of this aims to ensure the effectiveness of the determinations contained in the territorial management instruments and the principles of speed, efficiency, simplification in all areas, but especially in the administrative and legal certainty. Planning on a territorial scale will ensure that different actions meet the goals marked for the entire autonomous community, avoiding isolated actions and with partial criteria, which can be developed through local planning instruments. Therefore, sectoral and territorial plans are instruments that govern large areas of the autonomous community. They shall do so in accordance with the characteristics of the territory and the sector of activities which they regulate, and shall seek to establish a number of standards and criteria which shall take into account the urban planning instruments and the direct executions carried out in this field. As far as projects of self-interest are concerned, it must be remembered that this is the only form of direct intervention in the territory. This turns out to be the figure that will be used to plan and execute concrete actions. They come to replace sectoral projects of supra-municipal incidence, so their territorial, economic, social or cultural impact must have a forecast in a state of play and current planning. These plans can be planned; that is, the existence of a sectoral plan already says how in the future this development should be done through a project of self-interest, the only instrument that develops it in the event of a sectoral plan. Therefore, self-interest projects that are not covered by this sectoral plan will not be allowed. In the case of unplanned plans, that is, in those cases that there is no sectoral plan and that action is intended to be carried out regardless of who the promoter is, they must justify that they have supra-municipal impact, i.e. that they sit in more than one municipality and that they also have a series of territorial aspects, which will be necessary to obtain the declaration of self-interest, such as their location, the territorial impact, the economic means which guarantee that viability, among others. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the new Land Management Act that we are going to discuss today in this plenary seeks to correct the evasive measures that have been detected during the years of application of the current law, trying to improve it and provide the Autonomous Community with a useful tool to carry out its management. As it could not be otherwise, this review and update was also used to incorporate into the content of the law criteria such as environmental sustainability, the protection of landscape values, the fight against climate change, the guarantee of universal accessibility to services and infrastructures and the consideration of the soil as an exhaustable and limited asset, i.e. the need for rational and sustainable exploitation of it, the green infrastructure and the perspective of gender; issues that we can no longer leave behind. To understand that the soil is a very limited and depletable laying the foundation for ensuring that a sustainable territorial development model is created, which combines growth needs with the protection and preservation of natural resources and territorial values. This sustainable territorial development model is the only crack to ensure social cohesion and the improvement in quality of life, not only for the present generations, but for those who are about to come. Today, Galicia is closer to having a standard that corrects the possible imbalances in the community, that guarantees the accessibility of all the population to infrastructures and services, that improves the relationships between urban and rural environment and that enhances economic and sustainable development. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u7	Thank you very much, Counselor. The role of defence of amendments to the whole, with the positioning of the bill. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u8	Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, the presentation of this bill is a missed opportunity for the management of the territory in Galicia, and we are willing to defend this statement until the end. You came here to say that the Galician Land Management Act is not the only norm approved by the Galician Board in this legislation that was dedicated to the land management, and it has announced another series of figures, such as the Territory Management Guidelines, the Coastal Land Management Plan... it has mixed this with urban figures, such as autonomic basic planning, etc. He also intended to explain that it was a simplification of land management instruments. In addition, he said something in this explanation that is not collected in the Land Management Act itself, because he said that at the top of the land management were the Land Management Guidelines, then he said that below were the territorial plans and the sectoral plans and that at the last step — I said literally — were the plans of self-interest. Would I like to know exactly where that supposed normative pyramid you announced is described in the legislative text? There is no single reference to the principle of regulatory hierarchy between land management instruments, or hierarchy between land management and urban planning, which, as you know, are different things. Therefore, this absence determines that the exposure you have made is incorrect, from the point of view of the normative exposure of what the law itself establishes, particularly in Articles 16 and 17. This means there's not going to be a real spatial sorting because there's no real planning with a pyramidal development like you just announced here. In that normative pyramid there can be no other figure above the planning, the planning of the territory, other than the Land Management Guidelines; we agree, that's what you indicated as a superior character. Under the Territorial Management Guidelines are plans, territorial and sectoral. Thirdly, there are the self-initiative plans, the development of the self-interest plans. So that triangulation in normative development would seem ideal. And we would be willing to support a rule that declared it, but the problem is that it doesn't. That's the main objection that we have today of a formal nature, which, in addition, we think creates a dislate in the ideological plane, regardless of what its political ideology is. That is, nobody benefits from the establishment of a Land Management Act that does not explicitly declare the normative hierarchy; firstly, the internal hierarchy of planning instruments and, secondly, the hierarchical relationship between territorial planning and urban planning. This does not benefit anyone because it causes disorder, causes insecurity, causes legal uncertainty, sends — for sure — the unwanted judicialization of the various management instruments and, therefore, a conflict that must not order a territorial planning. This — I insist — is our first objection. We also say in writing — part of it is well developed with regard to specific articles, and I will now stop in some of them — as the bill does not establish a preeminence of territorial planning on urban planning. In addition, I refer to Article 16.1 of this Territorial Management Bill, which says that the land management instruments are linked "without prejudice to the use of urban management instruments and those established in sectoral legislation". So that "without prejudice" indicates a hierarchy relationship. When it's said that "this is so and so, without prejudice to..." it means that it's a salvation and that, therefore, there's a preeminence of what is put after "no prejudice". Article 16.1 therefore contains a formulation that denies the normative hierarchy as an absolute nature of the planning of the territory on urban management and sectoral management. Secondly, in Article 16 itself and Article 17, when establishing its own legal effectiveness and the structure of planning instruments, there is an absence of the principle of hierarchy of land management instruments on urban management, there is no "hierarchy". And that's very common in administrative texts: to establish the hierarchy between standards or instruments that develop certain development issues through plans, in particular. Article 17, when it speaks of the binding of the determinations of the territorial sorting instruments, does not contain the word "hierarchy", nor does it include 17.1, in which a small coherence is requested. It's about coherence, but it's not about hierarchy. A coherence can be solved, as a way to end the anti-nomys that are presented between standards, giving prominence to either of them. The hierarchy principle solves the antonymity by the higher rank norm or by the higher range planning instrument. Well, if instead of "coherence" if you put "hierarchy," this would be resolved, so that the higher planning instruments would be imposed on the lower in case of contradiction between them. If this is not declared, there will be a problem that will, of course, give rise to an obvious litigiousness. In addition, there is a small affirmation of the pre-eminence of land management over urban management, and there is no more to read paragraphs 17.4 and 17.5. The Land Management Act — here and in any country in our legal context — must declare the higher regulatory hierarchy and planning as a higher nature at the level of regulatory hierarchy on urban management, and also with regard to sectoral management, of course, because sectoral management cannot be pre-eminent over the territory, and much less about the instruments you have stated in the exposure of reasons as of a higher rank, which would be the case of the Land Management Guidelines. Well, secondly, this bill does not establish a clear generation among the territorial planning instruments themselves. You internally denounced a series of steps which, however, in practice in the reading of the law are not warned. And I'm going to say that this is clearly deduced: in Article 16.1 there is a use of letters in the formulation of instruments and not of ordinary numbers, which is what corresponds to the rules of those characteristics. If the first is the Territorial Management Guidelines, it is set 1st), not (a) if the second is the territorial plans, it is set 2nd), not (b) and then there, within that subordination, also between the different territorial plans, and then finally the sectorial projects of self-interest. Well, there's nothing about this. And I insist again that Article 17.1 also does not contain a statement of the hierarchy principle of the Land Management Guidelines on the rest of urban planning instruments. And this turns your enunciation here into paper into the rostrum, in which it establishes that escalation — as you have mentioned — into paper. As for the Territorial Management Guidelines, there is a lack of -- notably inadequate -- drafting of Article 24 on the normative effectiveness of the Territorial Management Guidelines, on their force of obligation and their preeminent position on the rest of the land management instruments. In such a way that, as I said before, Articles 16, 17 and 24 may result in sectoral planning instruments being imposed on the Land Management Guidelines. And that's a dislate from the perspective of planning, regardless of the political ideology of each one. As for integrated territorial plans, there is an absence in the definition of the reference to the Territorial Management Guidelines, no reference, when it is an instrument that, of course, pyramidally develops the Territorial Management Guidelines. There is only one mention of relief in Article 26.1, paragraph 5(a), which contains, on the other hand — and the regulatory technique is well done — in the definition of a special territorial plan in Article 29.1. So that same technique should be done when defining the integrated territorial plan. Similarly, in the integrated territorial plan, Article 31 contains an ambiguous and insufficient wording on policy effectiveness and position. And this is important for what we said before: for pyramidal development. As far as sectoral plans are concerned, there is an absolute lack of reference to the Land Management Guidelines and territorial plans, and this is sufficient to read the literal content of Article 32. Although, on the other hand — and this is well done — it specifies its normative position of superiority verb from projects of self-interest that develop sectoral projects —Articles 32 and 56.1. That technique is correct. And the rest — the position of the DOTs and the position of the territorial plans — should keep that same wording to be clear. Finally, in the sectoral plans there is a lack of drafting of its position of regulatory and legal effectiveness in relation to other instruments in Article 35. Finally, in projects of self-interest, these are the only ones that contain a clear drafting of the hierarchical relationship with respect to the rest of the land management instruments in Article 43.1, which regulate the other instruments that should also have a similar clarity. In addition to all this — and I will refer to this later on — the whole system believes in projects of unplanned self-interest, which do not support any sectoral project and which assume an absolute breakdown of the claim of urban planning. Therefore, this project must be removed for this second reason too, because of the lack of relationship between planning instruments; something that is fundamental to making a Land Management Act. The third major reason, which has to do with the structuring of the norm -- the margin of the ideology that is being proclaimed in this chamber -- is the preeminence of sectoral legislation on land management and planning. No sectoral order can be imposed on land-use management, because land-use management contains a holistic perspective on which sectoral legislation and sectoral management will then develop. Well, the law — as it is drafted — subordinates territorial management to the sector, which does not necessarily include the territorial phenomenon as a whole, and introduces a reverse solution of how the solution of the territory should be addressed in its entirety. Thus, for example, prescriptions in urbanism, in water or in mountains can be prevalent to the overall idea of the land management set. And you can impose these sectoral urban plans, for example, on the whole of the Land Management Guidelines. And this is wrong from the point of view of the hierarchy technique that must preside over the planning of the territory. And I'm going to give you a number of examples: Article 16.1 of this bill relates to land management instruments without prejudice to the authorization of urban management instruments and those established in sectoral legislation. And Article 17.1, in the pre-eminence of the second subparagraph of the sectoral rules on land management. So that pyramid you announced here is not collected in the law, among others, by these two articles I just mentioned. So this is a dislate. What are the consequences of these three anomalies in the conception of the law from the point of view of the regulatory hierarchy, and I am talking about the lack of pre-eminence of land management on urban planning, I am talking about the lack of internal hierarchy between planning instruments and I am talking about the prevalence of sectoral management on land planning? Well, it creates a big problem of legal insecurity, because from the point of view of the right applicator and from the point of view of all legal operators who later relate to the planning instruments of the territory and urban development, they will encounter chaos by not knowing what is the prevailing norm or whether it is different from what has been explicitly stated here. And that will give rise to the judicialization of conflicts. In addition, there is another problem, which is the inexhaustible practical consequence I believe that for the Galician Union: the patrimonialization of rights as a result of obtaining licenses according to the urban management instruments that are later declared null for contradicting the management of the territory. And, therefore, that will assume a heritage responsibility of the Galician Union that we must avoid. And this regardless of which party we belong to, because it's of general interest that land management is coherent, coherent in order to establish a holistic and hierarchically clarified vision. But it is also — and I think this is already the colophon of the disorder of the territory — that two figures are created in the bill that graze with all the intended good intention of the management of the territory, which are facing diametrically. First of all, they are integrated territorial plans for circumstances not provided for in the DOT. Let's see: it turns out that DOT, the spatial management guidelines, contain a holistic perspective on the territory, a holistic perspective on what the country is, what its uses are, what its physical space is, what the management of the settlement of man and woman in physical space, all this, and then it turns out that, if we forget things in that great holistic vision, we put a plan without modifying DOTs, without making a complete reconsideration to try to amend them through the path of the patch. This is contrary to the entire planning philosophy and must be eliminated. Article 26.3 is what contains it, and its concordants. And, if so, how should we proceed? Well, by adapting reality to the Land Management Guidelines. In the same sense, Article 29(2) in relation to special territorial plans. The second figure that completely breaks any urban management claim in this text is the projects of unplanned self-interest — Article 37.3.b), which believe in the character of the secondary planning figure which is correctly provided for in Articles 32.5 and 36.1, since the IAPs are called on to develop sectoral projects. This means a breakdown of land management and a co-sponsor of actions with serious environmental impact or serious territorial impact not foreseen by planning. We understand that the solution is the detection of needs and, therefore, not to destroy through the IAPs not provided for complete planning, because it breaks the coherence of instruments, but to submit, if so, the revision of instruments of a higher character with due guarantees. Both figures, integrated territorial plans for unplanned circumstances and projects of unplanned self-interest, have in common the deficiencies in top-level planning figures, or have not been warned of certain needs, or have not been properly determined the realities of the territory itself — you have finished, Mr President. In both cases, instead of resorting to a change in the instruments that adapt them to reality or needs, they are patched up. And they're patched up with figures of lower rank, which are extravagant to a system that is incoherent and disorientated and hinders the joint interpretation of spatial planning, by the opposition of instruments inferior to other superiors that do not contemplate these realities. This technique — and I will finish by now — deprives the top-ranking planner of designing needs or describing realities from a holistic perspective, and then adapting them from a sectoral or urban perspective. So this must be corrected. There can be no such superiority of the unplanned over the planned, because it would contradict the essence of the planning of the territory. Finally, I want to point out that these two figures contain a relaxed protection of environmental control, and that also results in a loss of quality...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u9	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u10	...of the text itself.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u11	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u12	There are more reasons we managed and are collected in writing, but it seems essential to me to have a debate with you where I had actually defended the vigency of what you just explained. You well explain here the need for a pyramid, but the text does not contain it. And, therefore, since En Marea, we've been conforming to the correction of that defect...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u13	Thank you, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u14	...and if he comes back to the corrected chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u15	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u16	Good morning. Counsellor, you did a meritorious exercise of presentation and summary of the law, you missed PowerPoint so it could be more illustrative. In any case, you said we were on a historic day and wait a bit, because today we are going to discuss basically the debate about the refund amendments that all opposition groups have tabled. Later on, in any case, you'll see if you give them time to pass this law. It depends on how the legislation goes, which now goes at a lot of speed and costs down. There seems to be nervousness in the ranks of the People's Party. [[Murmurs.]] I missed him anyway in his presentation that he didn't say the magic word of the laws of the People's Party, he missed "pioneer." This isn't a pioneering law, is it? It's a law -- you said -- that tries to mend an outdated situation. Yes, we'll talk about that, of the twenty-five years of the law and also of the years that have been approved the guidelines and what happened to them. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So what's really going on is that you haven't done your homework; you haven't done your homework and come here late, bad and drag at the last hour trying to pass a law after all that's happened over the years. Although you said there were other reasons and other purposes as well, we will say that there is an agenda that is nothing hidden, which is obvious, where are the true intentions of this legislative amendment. We'll see you later. But first we want to make some reflections on what our territory is, and not exactly about the management of the territory, but about what we see every day if we travel around the country, which is degradation and destruction of the territory and the landscape. Because really the landscape we have in the country is devastating; it is a desolation after that law that has been in force since 1995 and since those Land Management Guidelines and the Coastal Management Plan adopted in 2011. We're talking about the chaotic growth of cities and urban areas; we just need to go around the cities. We're talking about desertification and the depopulation of rural areas; you yourself recognize that fact and the drama of depopulation and the demographic drama this country has suffered. We're talking about environmental aggression on the Natura Network or on land land, like, for example, the planting of fast-growing species, and the loss of 17 percent of the agricultural surface in our country has to do with the management and planning of the territory that you haven't done. We are talking about the lack of control over extractive activities. You know how many miners are. What's going on, for example, in the Touro mine? What's going on, for example, on Neme Mountain? That's the model you present as the tourist attraction of the country: Mount Neme. We're talking about landscape aggression everywhere, because after you passed the Landscape Law in 2008 -- and it's been twelve years -- you were unable to approve the Landscape Guidelines, which is a fundamental instrument, yes, for the management of the territory and the landscape, and for planning and ordering all the issues, and to prevent that predation that we're seeing. That's why you didn't approve those guidelines. And the best example of this scenario is what you want to do now with Mos' ball. But what are they talking about planning and management of the territory when they want to drag a million square metres of the mountain essentially, of rustic forest protection lands, to give them to a private initiative and a large commercial area? what are we talking about? What model do you want to bring us here? That's your model, which is sponsoring and promoting the Galician Union and the Town Hall of Mos to benefit the Celta and a large multinational company. That's your model: the model of speculators' interests and private business. And the reality, Counselor, is that the Board has not done its homework. You're not responsible as such head of the Board because it's been a short time. But in all these years, in these ten years, and essentially since 2011, you have not fulfilled and have not developed the mandates established, for example, in the Land Management Guidelines, which are not met and are not developed. Because these guidelines provide for the adoption of key instruments for land management, such as integrated territorial plans. It's just that you came here to talk about Land Management Guidelines, Integrated Territorial Plans and Sectoral Plans that were already in the previous law. The news really comes from the PIAs—then we'll talk about the PIAs—but the other instruments were already there. So what are we talking about? Why didn't they make any of the territorial plans, excluding the POL, which were planned for the DOT? Because there was talk of making a plan for each of the urban regions: the Coruña-Ferrol and Vigo-Pontevedra, and an integrated territorial plan for each of the seven cities, also for the intermediate urban system and for the nodes, which called it the balance of the territory, which is a fundamental issue. Why didn't they make that plan? Why did they leave the country alone? Why did they let the depredation of the figures, as you call them to intervention in the territory, proliferate everywhere like fungi? Because they didn't do their homework! They only approved an integrated territorial plan, the POL, in 2011. Yes, now they're going with others... and I'm going to tell you what the third additional provision of the POL says: "Ence, area of environmental improvement and landscape. The aim of this area is to recover the space that will be vacant from the materialization of the transfer of these facilities to another location on the horizon of 2018." [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, Counselor, Attention, Attention, Attention... You don't like me telling you this, do you? This is what the POL for the Lands of Ence in Lourizán. And you know what you did? Give him a 60-year extension with a favourable report from the Galician Council, with a favourable report from the Environment Council, going against what the POL and the Land Management Guidelines set out. [[Applause]] That's your way of sorting the territory, which is at the service of the Ibex companies, at the service of the spin gates. And of course, what you didn't do was you were a coordinated program of action, which is a figure that was also provided for in the previous law and also in the guidelines. Coordinated action programmes! Do you know what this means, Counsellor?, do you know what coordinated action programs mean? To agree with all the agents of the territory, for example, in the Vigo metropolitan area, which you too have torpedoed, to make a joint action plan on infrastructure, equipment, services, in an orderly and planned manner, so as not to go through what you're doing, for example, with that Mos ballatzo. That's the difference between one model and another: the model of planning, management and performance combined with coordinated action programs, and another is to let the powerful, speculators do what they want with the territory. And they didn't even make any physical media management plans, which was a fundamental tool for ordering natural spaces, for example, and also for ordering the rural environment. And now they come to us with these bucolic corners in defense of the rural environment, of the rural legislation. I'll tell you later what rural people are doing in this law. What did they do? They didn't make the territorial plans, that is, within this pyramidal management they didn't do the top planning, the top management, and they did let the sectoral projects of supra-municipal impact, which are the ones that interest private companies, large companies, who want that direct intervention in the territory above the general determinations, 300 and two, but territorial plans, one. That's the model. And now, at a time of discount, you bring us here a legislative arsenal or its legislative bulldozer, in this final gap at a time of discount of the legislation, — in 2018, yes, but we are in 2020 — the Land Management Act, and announce another danger: the Environmental Assessment Act, after which they had approved before in 2013 the entrepreneurship Act and in 2017 the depredation Act. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's all going clearly in the same direction. We could also talk about the Urban Rehabilitation Act. Do you know what all these rules have in common? They use an excuse, which is simplification and administrative coordination. But what they have in common is to deprive the interests of the large business groups, of the large lobbys that they want to strip away, following the spread of our territory: the energy lobby, the forest lobby, the mining lobby, the lobby also of the large commercial areas, which are Voytre funds that want to raid and destroy our territory. And you have to recognize them anyway something that they do well: this project has also its kind face, it has a kind face. You do as carnivorous plants, which spread attractive aromas and attractive colors to see someone being bitten, and then they put in this rhetorical envelope -- we can say -- good intentions, and they talk about balanced development, sustainable development, social cohesion, participation. Well, here you told us about the green and blue Galicia, which is already the wonder of all the wonders, Galicia in the country of wonders. But I'm going to tell you that you talk about "participation," but you don't understand what participation is, because for you participation is, for example, making a public consultation procedure. But that's something that's regulated, that's the regulated regulatory procedure. Real participation is something else. Real participation has to do with dialogue and social intervention, horizontal and from the bottom to the top, with the participation of all the agents in debates that have to do with fundamental issues for the future of the country. And you don't. And so we can say in the case of rural, which occupies an article. By the way, they speak of the rural system of Galicia, a single article in front of the fourteen IAPs. A single article to talk about the rural system of Galicia, when you systematically failed everything the DOT asked for for the rural of Galicia. For example, one of the DOT's determinations was that the Galician Union will map areas of the territory with the highest agricultural and forestry capacity, to protect them. But you didn't because you don't want to protect those uses from the countryside. And you've been an advisor to the rural environment and you've been able to promote that physical environment management plan to perform those actions. Or number 3.7.7, which says that "The Galician Union will regulate both agricultural and forestry energy crops." And they didn't, and we know why they didn't, because there's the energy lobbyies that they want to do these biomass plants to polish our resources. [[Applause]] And then there are screaming absences, too. But I'm going to talk about the real face of this law, which is the face B, which is the real agenda, the real reason for being and the main novelty, which are the projects of self-interest and which occupy fourteen articles, which are the real horse of Troy that you put in the regulations to favor the interests of these great economic agents, these large economic groups, to those who want to give them a course patent to polish the territory. And they replace plans and projects of supramunicipal incidence, but corrected and increased. And you're talking about coordination and administrative cooperation? What they do is they assault and go over like a bulldozer of competences and municipal autonomy. They talk about administrative cooperation and they go over planning and the need for the municipalities to approve licences for these projects. They go over the landscape regulations and the protection of natural spaces. They include a pernicious, aberrant figure, which is that of the projects of unplanned self-interest, so that private companies can make that intervention directly in the territory with their satisfaction, against any superior planning and management, and also of what the municipalities say, which have nothing to say. And in addition, the most aberrant thing is that they give those PIAs unanticipated the possibility of declaration of public utility and social interest and the way of expropriation. And if this figure existed, they would now use it, for example, for Mos' ballazing. And then they create an exception for wind farms as well. Therefore, Counsellor, the BNG submits this amendment to the whole of the return to the Government because this is a matter of such magnitude that deserves a country agreement, it deserves a territorial pact, where they have to be, of course, the parliamentary groups and where all the institutions of this country have to be — hence, the Greek Government, the deputies, the councils — and also society, the social agents through their representative entities, but not only the economic agents and those great economic agents behind it. That's why we are presenting this amendment as a whole and we are asking for a new consensus rule that it is at the service of general interest, social interest, public interest, not private interests, and that it reconciles, as it has to be in a norm of this kind, ecology with the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u17	Thank you, Mr Bará. Joint Left Group, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u18	Good morning. Counsellor, this is once again the purest tradition of this government and the People's Party: a monument to absolute falsehood, a way of saying one thing and making the opposite and one lie after another. Well, it's the colophon, in addition, to the legislating of the rural spoli. The motivations set out here to change this law are absolutely false, not supported. Why does this law change? The adviser and the legislative text state that it is for two fundamental issues: to adapt to the European territorial strategy, which was adopted in 1999, and a second argument is because it has passed twenty-five years. And we say, Counselor: the laws are not outdated because the years pass, they are outdated if reality exceeds that legislative text. Because we have, for example, a law of forced expropriation, state, of 1954, and it's still working, and it's the one that applies to facilitate expropriation to people by electricians in wind farms, for example. It's 1954, and it must be that this law works well for you, that it's not out of line. So it's not justified. But we're talking about something, we're talking about a real country, we're talking about Galicia. We are talking about an effective law, Law 10/1995, on the management of Galicia's territory, which was developed with very clear objectives: to correct the imbalances that were already in the country so that all regions of the country had an equal development — as you said — that there were opportunities for people in all territories: interior and Atlantic axis, and to improve the supra-municipal inter-administrative coordination, which was another one of the eves that Galicia had to develop economic, social, territorial management policies, which was to create supra-municipal entities that could create endogenous economic development plans that would set up a proper management on a scale and so on. We're talking about a real country, with real needs in 1995. He said in the explanatory statement: "The endemic lack of an integrated and combined vision of administrative action led the Galician Union to adopt a set of measures, integrated into the different sectoral action plans involved, which resulted in the overcoming of a situation characterized by the old territorial imbalance, where population, economic activity and infrastructure concentrated on a relatively small part of the community, the Atlantic corridor, leaving the remaining areas in worse condition, which increased the differences in quality of life between the inhabitants of rural and urban areas." "The traditional management instruments offered by urban legislation have shown in practice insufficient to address the correction of socio-economic territorial imbalances or the coordination of supra-municipal territorial actions." The two objectives that are set are the correction of territorial imbalances and administrative coordination between municipalities and between administrations as well. The first thing you had to do when you come here, when you're motivated by a new law, is a balance of application of the first one. Because you've assumed that they make a lot of laws; well, in this legislation, the data says that they don't. Even so, you read them loudly, especially on this subject where you shoot all over — and then I'll talk about it — but you have to do them and you have to implement them. And you had to come here to make a balance of what was applied to the vigorant law and what was not applied. And of what has not been applied, say the reasons why you think it has not been applied, and if they are needed to apply, correct what is needed for them to apply. For example, we'll know a lot about what you've dedicated to the government if we go to the data on which instruments of the law were applied. And I'm going to tell you: from the sectoral projects of supramunicipal incidence, about 90 percent, the eighty-six percent of the sectoral projects of supramunicipal incidence were for wind farms, for high voltage lines and for hydroelectric power stations, the ninety percent; the rest, for business soil. And with this data we know why this law served: to make sectoral projects of supramunicipal incidence, to overcome the local resistance of people and municipalities, to offer certain projects that cause rejection. I mean, when the neighbors and the neighbors of Laxe deploy a wind farm, even though in that council the corporation unanimously says not to that wind park, it is there, because the board is not that administratively coordinated, it imposes its law. And he imposes his law for the benefit of private companies. So you had to have here a balance of why only an integrated territorial plan, the Coastal Management Plan, was approved; besides, driven — and a great deal of success — by the two-party Government to curb in those years the outcome that could come. Well, it turns out you didn't approve any integrated territorial plan for something as important for this country as creating comarcial, supra-municipal or metropolitan dynamics. An absolute failure! The integrated territorial plan is for these sub-municipal entities to implement comprehensive economic, social and other development measures. Not one! And you here don't wonder why they haven't been approved, and they don't change anything so that in the future there's more ease to approve, if there's political will, of course, that often doesn't. Nor do they wonder why a coordinated programme of action was not carried out, which is that program where administrations, different administrations, make an investment plan to achieve a goal. So the justification for changing the law would have to come around. And what you want to do would have to come around. But you guys, what they do is they delete two elements and improve what worked well. But improve for whom, for the general interest? No, for the companies that have already used those instruments. Because if 90 percent of the sectoral projects of supra-municipal impact were for electricity, as it is official in the Commission's monitoring of implementation of the Land Management Guidelines, now what you do is give them even more advantages and create that for autonomic programmes. Therefore, motivation is false. This is not a law that seeks to correct imbalances, which have worsened since you rule. Because if the Land Management Act sought to rebalance the country, the data tell us that the situation has worsened since you govern. And we have to go beyond those memories that annually follow the Land Management Guidelines, which tell us that every year since you rule, the density of the population of the sparsely populated areas has fallen. The last year has passed from 21.8 inhabitants to 21.4 inhabitants; a startling pace that is following the countryside in this land of depopulation. For the first time we descended in many years of the 2,700,000 inhabitants, we lost 100,000 inhabitants between 2009 and 2019, and until the year 2009 the population grew. In the last ten years, 100,000 people have been lost. But above all, they were lost, above all, in those rural areas, to which they were intended to help with a Land Management Act. Nothing has been said about that, nothing has been said about that reality, which is one of the great challenges this country has. On the other hand, we also want to point out why we say you can't say the real motivations. Because you're in business, and that's what explains everything. You can't come here saying that you've had demands from certain sectors to change the law, because there are times when I can't get certain issues forward. Of course, the same thing they didn't do with Law 3/2016 or the Accompanying Law when the Municipal Management General Plan was cancelled, which is multiplying the laws to violate planning, which is what you do with projects of unplanned self-interest. That is, without being in a sector plan or sector planning, you can now do programs of unplanned self-interest since the private initiative. Yes, yes, yes, private, Counselor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] As I'm wondering, here's the text of the law, let's see: "Projects of unplanned self-interest..." Yes. "...which are intended to plan and project the execution of actions not contemplated in a sectoral plan. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] "In this case, the project must meet the criteria and objectives set out in the Territorial Management Guidelines. It must be congruent and fit... "Once the sectoral plan has been adopted, they cannot be approved within the field... Self-interest projects can be promoted and developed on a public or private basis. Counsellor, don't you know the law? You put it here, don't you? [[Mr. Sánchez García shows the whole House a leaflet.]] Give it to the advisor to make it clear. [[Ms. Counsellor Vázquez Mejuto speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, you can't recognize the real goals. So you cannot recognise, for example, that it is particularly serious in the case of private initiative projects, for example, the forecast that the development of the self-interest project and its initial approval in the case of the private initiative correspond to the promoter. In practice, this means that the definition of self-interest is left in the hands of the particular promoter. Two. The possibility of expropriating the land which it deems convenient for the interests of the particular promoter. Three. The removal of the obligation to obtain municipal urban license. You suppress this obligation of the municipal license. It's no coincidence. Since the sectorial project or self-interest project now does not have complete technical content, no one will control whether or not the construction project complies with the sectoral project's determinations, nor the safety, habitability, functionality and so on. Moreover, since the works are not subject to municipal control, the necessary measures are not envisaged to restore the urban legality violated, nor to punish the infringements committed in the event that the works are not appropriate to the sectoral project. This is key, and they're giving them more broad sleeves to those who have already had wide sleeves, for example, in the Oribio. I mean, the Town Councils don't give municipal license; therefore, the Town Councils can't control how these works are done. She wanted municipal autonomy. Not a small excuse. [[Murmurs.]] You said you respected municipal autonomy, as the law says. They don't say that to all the municipalities that made claims to the law during the consultation period. They say that municipal autonomy is violated, and it is obvious, because it is expected that at the same time the approval of the project of self-interest will be approved the amendment of the general municipal management plan directly in the municipalities. No, I wasn't. He forced the county to change, which is not the same. They have already removed the municipality from the intervention in this process, which does not elaborate the modification of the general plan, or approves initially, provisionally or definitively. In practice, it will be the particular one, in the case of private initiative, who decides on the content and scope of the change, without counting on the interests of the municipal community, which represents only the fullness of the corporation. They go above the will of the city council people. And all for what? To build protected housing? No, no, no, no. To build public infrastructure? No, because all of the sectoral plans you approved are there to see. They didn't approve any sectoral housing plan protected in the worst years of the economic crisis when people went to the streets, and they accused the two-party government of going to rob people's lands because they wanted to make a sectoral plan of protected housing. You didn't meet the needs of the general interest in sector plans. You approved the wind sector plan, you supported the wind sector plan — the last amendment in 2002 — to meet the interests of the companies that have settled in the territory. You used those tools to disbalance the country more. That's why I say it's all they say is false, it's the opposite: they say one thing and they do the opposite. They talk about land management, and the instruments they use are to further debalance the territory, because they allow actions that drive people out of rural areas, as data shows. Never so many rural people have been expelled like these last ten years with their performances, and so they say the data. [[Murmurs.]] It also fosters regulatory dispersion, full of instruments that are precisely to dodge planning instruments. Unforeseen projects of self-interest come to press the regulated instrument in Law 3/2016, too. The same is true of the regulation of sectoral projects for the development of sectoral plans of business areas, which are set out in the Predation Act, 5/2017. You are exempt from the fulfilment of this Land Management Act to the wind sector companies, which will continue to be rejected by the Predation Act; except for them, they will be brought to a level. For example, projects in these two sectors will not have to meet the requirement to believe acceptance by the owners who represent more than 50 percent of the total area of the project's scope of action; that private promoters are required in other types of actions. Instead of a hypothetical project of self-interest for protected housing development, if there's a private promoter, you'll have to count on the minimum agreement of 50 percent of the landowners. And ultimately — that time is over — the motivations you argue are false. And, therefore, by analyzing the figures, what we see is that this is meant to leave certain measures tied up before you stop ruling this country and not responding to the general interest. It doesn't analyze why Galician territorial imbalance or take measures to reduce that imbalance; it doesn't analyze what didn't work out of the law, or part of the actual data. You just wear the saint and then you benefit from the usual ones.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u19	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u20	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u21	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u22	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. For the amendments to the whole that we present all the groups and the arguments of the different voices and voices employed so far, it seems that there is what is an obvious common feeling in the opposition to clear rejection of the law that is presented here today. And the truth is, it's not strange because this is a law that is born with very few arguments. Well, it's true that today your defense is already guaranteed in advance, and we know it. And opposition groups can only, in any case, alert about their weaknesses and, perhaps more importantly, about the threat they pose to our territory. From the vision of our group, this bill today places the territory of Galicia in a much more vulnerable position. A fact that also reminds us of the times of the most aggressive and destructive Greek urbanism with the territory, with our coastline, with our mountains, with our rivers. With a good basis — yes — of makeup is announced in this law the intention of this government to sell the territory, the whole territory. A daring that is, if it is true, more serious when you take advantage of, in addition, a document with concepts such as green infrastructure, such as protection of the environment or sustainability, and which is no use in this case than to mask what is a clear preposition of business urban business to the various values intrinsic to the territory. So we've faced a kind but perverse text law. That's the summary of this draft law. Unfortunately, the examples we already have today, and they are already alarming the neighborhoods like Santa's and Touro's and Pino's. And that shows us that this is an ad hoc law made for the perfect fit of private initiatives, that Mr. Feijóo's Government understands that they are above the neighboring interests, the natural or cultural interests of our land. And if well from the Socialist Group that is the final conclusion, in order to get to it we have asked ourselves the following question: Why and why is this law drafted? And it is that, from our point of view, the justification for drafting a new law must be based, at least, on the need to legislate what has no regulation and, in any case, as a response to the exhaustion of shown failure to monitor the law before it. By carefully analysing the Galician Territory Planning Bill in process, we can conclude that it does not seem to be responding to either of the previous assumptions. Well, it's true that in the bill's explanatory statement, the need for a new law is argued for more than two decades of current vigency. And frankly — we also agree with one of the speakers who has already argued about it — this does not seem to be sufficient for when there are other previous laws, in this case also autonomous, which are neither needed nor proposed by this government to be replaced. And so is the existing urban legislation, when it should not be the one that causes the existence of a new Land Management Act, but precisely the opposite. It is also notorious how it is to argue with the need to face new objectives, but without that previous analysis in any case of the behavior and results of the current Galician Land Management Act, both regarding its degree of development and application as well as the vigency and capacity of the land management instruments it contains. Question not addressed either. At the same time, there is also a need to argue which questions would be those that cannot be addressed within the framework of the current legislation, if there is any. Without that previous analysis — I insist — of the current Lotga that serves as a reference, you will understand the government group that is very complex to understand and evaluate enough justification for this change. And if these nearly twenty-five years have served the Government today to conclude this past year and a half — because it must be said that this necessity has never been manifested before — the obsolescence of previous instruments contained in the law, why are those conclusions not properly argued? And what's more important: why don't you transfer this properly to Greek citizenship? When you break with a law, like when you break with a couple, you should give some sort of explanation, and not a simple little argument "It's just that you don't serve me anymore." As long as there's a responsibility here, there's also responsibility as managers of Welsh and Greek resources. And that's where our first point leads us to view as totally wrong the starting point for the drafting of this bill. In addition, a point of departure that leads us to doubt whether the law is truly valid is an obsolete document for the territory of Greece and those new objectives that they say are introduced into the law, or rather it is for the real interests and intentions of Mr Feijóo's policies. In fact, and pointing out in this direction, we see as it is pointed out in the considerations of the allegations to this bill presented by the Official College of Architects of Galicia itself — and I read textually: "Most of the points highlighted in the explanatory statement of the preliminary draft law are already included in the adoption of the approved Land Management Guidelines in 2011. So it's considered... they conclude... that they don't justify the amendment of the current law. Sure and concise. So not only from our group do we appreciate this scarce justification for changing the law, but professional collectives, such as the COAG itself, stress the failure to incorporate new motivations and objectives that explain and justify their origin. As for the degree of development or application of the current law, the analysis of, for example, possible causes — as has already been pointed out here — for which, for example, since the adoption of the Coastal Management Plan, for example, no other integrated territorial plan has been reached, nor the development of the corresponding coordinated action programmes. Is it a flaw in the law or rather lack of impulse and interest on the part of this government? In this sense, it is also necessary to underline the amount of public expenditure actually devoted to issues related to the territorial management of Galicia in the last decade. Between 2009 and 2018, 521A, "Urbanism", no more than eighty million euros, which, of course — we think — gives good consideration to the lack of interest in developing those tools of management that we already count on. And if we also look at what is planned for 2020, we will conclude that it is the least of the budgets of this programme since it exists as such, practically the third part of what was planned ten years ago. So, no, between the intention of this government has never been or is expected to be the concern for the territory as a matter of priority. And the instruments didn't fail, they just didn't push, because there was no interest in doing so. And it shows clearly the improvisation that seems to surround this law is that this was not part — and I insist — of the People's Party's own electoral program in the elections of 2016, neither between the goals of 2017 nor between the goals of 2018; it is a goal of only a year and a half ago. A project that, we insist, seems to be more fruitless than a desire to justify the introduction of far more important changes contained in the law and which need legal bodies in order to be carried out. A law engulfed by that makeup that I was talking about at first and which hides the introduction of new instrumental figures, such as self-interest projects. This new instrument is planted with a formulation that is somewhat different from the plans or the supermunicipal impact projects, configured as direct management tools by the Galician Union. And beyond the risk of contravention and injury to the principle of municipal autonomy, there is a clear threat to the whole territory, even the one with special protections. A question that shows the obvious lack of public guidance and inability to manage in recent years in terms of strategic planning and land management. The reality is that this new figure is opening the door to private operations that you want to implement the Autonomic Administration can be developed in any kind of soil, whatever its qualification and even modifying municipal urban planning. We would certainly not see a problem if this matter was perfectly clarified and listened to, but it is not. An option that is dangerously flexible — a word that is called a lot in this law — with liberalization and permissiveness, with which our group, of course, does not agree, and when in the current urban or industrial legislation there are, in addition, figures to come to enable certain projects to be implemented. And unfortunately, we've also known in recent times how this flexibility to fit into a project of self-interest also doesn't know many impediments. Let us remember this example — which has been denounced in this Chamber — of the case of the Royal Club Celta commercial sports complex in Mos, that to justify the change in the use of forest protection soil in which it intends to be established, among other arguments, that it is the best behavior of the soil in the face of the risk of fire by reducing the forest mass. Something which — as you will understand — literally turns surrealism, but which has to serve us to understand that with laws like this all is likely, everything, like this example of Mos, to be argued and, what is worse, applauded and supported as in this case by the Council of Galicia. So, actions like that of Mos, of course fits into this kind of new sort of management tool, such as self-interest plans, all we have to do is demonstrate that our territory will be, if we approve this draft law, much more vulnerable and with increasingly less defence capacity. Something that is absolutely alarming. And, on the other hand, the existing figure of coordinated action programmes, which are eliminated in this bill and which we believe are necessary tools to give viability to the issues set out in the Land Management Guidelines. These are designed as a key element in meeting the objectives set out in Article 2.1 of the draft directive itself, which states that "The management of the territory of the Autonomous Community of Galicia is denied by the principles of coordination and inter-administrative cooperation, ensuring consistency in the performance of public administrations and social participation. Both principles must be ensured in the elaboration and execution of the instruments regulated in this law." Moreover, the following is indicated in the DOT determinations in point 10.1.7. "The Galician Union will be able to develop coordinated action programmes to accompany the planning set out in the integrated territorial plans or to implement and develop the forecasts of the sectoral plans." And it also says in point 10.1.8: "As a result of its clearly investor character and its inter-administrative component, it is up to the boards with competence in economics, farm and administrative coordination to raise proposals for the development and approval of coordinated action programmes." Therefore, with the explicit intention in this bill to eliminate coordinated action programmes, the existence of instruments that allow for autonomously coordinated formulae, proposals and actions is also eliminated, without considering the text of the preliminary draft no other figure or alternative mechanism to achieve defined targets. We understand, therefore, that in the case of a reformulation of the law and the one proposed here, we reconsider the permanence between the land management instruments at least of the coordinated action programmes, as defined in the Land Management Act of 1995. In fact, Alberto Núñez Feijóo himself affirmed, in his prologue to the Territorial Management Guidelines, the territorial model that Galicia needs with the DOTs and says: "A flexible growth framework is set which gives them the potential of each area and points out the way to act rationally and vision of the future by institutions, organizations and citizens." And we actually agree with that analysis. We believe that the territorial development model collected in the 1995 Lotga and the 2011 Land Management Guidelines is flexible and therefore with a journey. That's why we don't understand the turning point that justifies the forgetfulness of those statements. We understand that in order to achieve satisfactory results for land management, it would be the best strategy to concentrate resources and add efforts with the objective of moving forward on the already defined lines that keep their full vigilance at present, and to implement a reform of the law of 1995, because it is perfectly valid as an instrument to achieve the established targets. He also described it in the same prologue as DOT the then Environmental Adviser, Territory and Infrastructure, Agustín Hernández, in his text "In search of an open, balanced and united territory," and he said, "The guidelines we present here mark one before and one after in planning and in managing the territory, they have a vocation to be the vault key of a common project that is Galicia." So guess what, in this preliminary draft of the law it seems that this "boveda slave" is neither as key nor the frame was as flexible as it was defended, or at least so surprisingly the Government sees it today. From our group today, in any case, we defend the adequacy of the current law, the continuity in the application of the territorial planning model defined in the Land Management Guidelines and the necessary momentum to foster its materialization and necessary development. Without more time to defend other important aspects that are collected in this preliminary draft, we conclude that the greatest commitment that you can now and must show this government to Galicia is to take a step back and withdraw that it would only be a bad and intolerable strategy of selling the territory of Galicia. Nothing else at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. On the side of the non-amendant group, the Galician People's Group, Mr. Fernández Prado has the floor for a time of fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u24	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. Good morning, Counselor. First of all, thank you for your explanation, for coming to this chamber and for bringing a new legislative text of transcendental importance. As I said, we brought an update to the law of 1995, with a clear objective of making it simpler, more useful, efficient and practical. A reform that bets for administrative simplification and which updates, simplifies, energizes the various urban planning instruments to avoid possible imbalances, and does so, in addition, culminating in the legislation and urban management of Galicia. If all this to opposition groups doesn't seem justified enough for this change, because I think it deserves it, and also congratulations, counselor, for work. But further, in line with the latest laws of Greece and the European directives, it integrates the environmental procedure and the processing of the management instrument, thus avoiding the use of various standards and strengthening, I insist, by strengthening environmental control. And yet there is only one procedure of processing for all the spatial planning instruments; another thing of praising. And, above all — and I think it's about the important issues that are going through — it integrates everything into a single procedure, so that it will modify and approve the land management document and jointly modify urban planning, avoiding work after the municipality. Then I'll stop on this subject, because it was automatically changed, and it's going to continue like this, but now that job is avoided in the municipalities. The saying: an update that aims to be useful and practical to society and that will therefore continue on the line of this government to continue taking care of one of the most precious goods, which are the territory and the landscape. But, as it was expected, and given that we're in the election year, opposition groups are presenting amendments to the whole that aren't really amended to the whole, they're just excuses for trying to build a fictitious speech, trying to create that fake scenario to try to wear down this government. By the way, the same speech we have been listening to in other previous laws on land management or urbanism. And then, possibilities of life!, the municipalities that ask to use those rules are in those that govern the left. And then in the autonomous communities where they govern they make the same laws and copy the laws, as was the promotion, the same! Or in Valencia. [[Applause]] Yes, in Valencia and Aragon, the Tides well that copied the laws here are predators, but there they are to favor businesses. All the same speeches, the same lies and the same mantras. If you don't have any real arguments -- and this whole speech is invented -- the four groups draw the example of Mos! Mos is a timely modification of municipal urban planning, municipal competition, which does not enter the Land Management Act. You're lying big, you're lying! But not only that, but that the law has already expressly stated that all documents with initial approval already go by the previous law. You're also lying about the other documents. To justify themselves, they have to remove this lie from Mos, which is of municipal competence, of modification of municipal planning; they have to take out some mines that have been operating for fifty years, twenty-five years before there was the Land Management Act and this government, this autonomy, and they have to take out Enc. If it doesn't come out, we're bad, too. Mr. Bará, don't worry, ask the socialists, who said yesterday in Arousa that that decree would be withdrawn. Ah! they're afraid it affects "PSOE's village," because that's what they're worried about in Arousa, that's what they're worried about. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Watch out there, that's what the concierge said yesterday. [[Murmurs.]] In any case, all excuses are fictitious, because they want to generate that speech which is a lie. Because when we have to process the urgent projects, who are the city councils asking for them? Vigo, please!, half of those who were asked; the Ferrol Tides; the James Tides, to make the intermodals. But before the law was for the Ourenses and it was to destroy the territory. Always the same speech, and then it's you who ask for the use of the law. And I'm betting what they want, once this law has been passed, the councils that will call the Board again — as they have done before — to use the sectoral projects will again be the ones on the left, after laying the broth of this law. Because it's always the same. But if we enter something often in these fictitious allegations to justify this speech, because in most cases the arguments might be partial amendments, but we had to come here to try to reject everything that is a government job. Look, starting in reverse order: The Mixed Group said, Mr. Villares — and I literally read — that there is no legal uncertainty in determining the legal efficiency of each planning instrument and that the bill does not establish a preeminence of territorial and urban application. And he spoke expressly of this hierarchy. Well, the law had it, but not just with urbanism. It already existed in the previous -- they don't lie to people -- but also in this -- because when any land-based sorting document is approved there is an obligation and it automatically changes planning. What happened these twenty-five years? So the municipalities said, why am I going to change a plan, if it's already changed by the document?, why am I going to spend money, time and effort, if I'm going to give the license directly? So in the sectoral project, I'm not going to spend these efforts and not change it. And most of those talkatives didn't change planning. And those who changed it made it with money and time from the municipalities; in order to not be able to change anything, because it has to move directly to the sectoral project. So there's no such thing. And now what does the law do? He says, 'cause we're going to do it directly and he's going to pay, and they don't have to pay the municipalities and they don't have to work for it. Don't twist! It was compulsory before, and the approval of the sectoral project had already been granted. Don't lie! And they don't lie to the subject of the license either, Mr. Sánchez. The only exception that is made is the same as the transitional provision of the previous law, the same: projects of a territorial marked character and of promotion and public management; those of a supra-municipal impact. If you do a highway, if you do an evacuation route, those are. But within the lies to justify all this, there are so many lies that the wind sector also uses. Half of Mr Sánchez's argument and time is for the wind sector and for the companies, which this is all an assembly presented by the wind sector and companies. The additional provision 5 — read — expressly states that wind and business projects go by the law of 2017, not by this. Then don't justify all lies. This law is not for what you say, it's not for what you say, about wanting to collate sectoral, wind projects, or Oribio, or anything like that, because it doesn't go by this law. They're still lying! The whole argument is fictitious. Because something might be on time, but we had to make an amendment too to say we're predators and we're going against the territory. And it's not true. And besides, I'm telling you one thing: the two documents that bother you so much, of which Mr Villares spoke expressly and all the others, the document of the territorial plans integrated by circumstances not provided for in the DOT and the projects of unforeseeable self-interest, the two documents exist in today's law, they exist, they do not invent. And they read in the DOT, in the Territorial Management Guidelines, point 10, the exclusive determination 10.1.2. It expressly states that you can develop those that are not provided for in the DOT. So they stop putting up a castle in the air, lies after lies, because these documents already existed. And no law is made to make these documents because they are already in use. By the way, a large part of these documents were used by the Bipartisan Government. When they ruled the PSOE and the BNG it seems that this was not to be imposed on the municipalities, it seems that this was not to undermine the territory. To a large extent, out of the four years that the Bipartite has ruled, a good number of these sectoral projects of supra-municipal impact have been approved, and some of them are not previously foreseen. So stop creating false fears, stop scaring people, because it's a lie. And don't fool people, because people know it's not true. People know that when you rule these figures, and people know that where they rule other communities have similar laws and copy our laws, as we have seen before. But by continuing to comment — of course, another lie! — says that the Bipartite has made the POL. Look at one thing: the POL beat him to being the general director of Urbanism and Alberto Núñez Feijó Counsellor. That document was released, and in four years they were unable to finish it. Mr. Feijó's government had to come back to finish it. Yes, sir! And it's not the only document that happens. [[Applause]] In the Territorial Management Guidelines we also left out the first document, and in four years they weren't able to finish it either. And then I had the honor of being part of a team of more than thirty university professors who, when he arrived again, Feijóo, we completed this, with people from different ideologies, from different professions, from different universities. And we have made a document of enormous social consensus, of enormous consensus, which is still in force today. That's why the counselor says, and I believe, that it's a great document, which I'm very proud of in the part that I'm playing. In any case, that document already collects a lot of the things you said. And, of course, to say here that only the POL was made is a lie. The advisor, with the plan of the integrated territory, named them the Ways of Santiago and the watersheds. There are more documents; if they are not known, they are informed. But in any case, I think it would be good if they referred to this POL, which deserved international recognition even from the United Nations. As so many things say, Mr. Bará said the theme of participation. Look: all documents, all documents that are done today, all of them planning or strategy, have the participation in addition to the consultation; do not confuse the Council in those terms. In the latest strategies that the Council has just done, that of climate change, that of circular economy, there are hundreds of citizens who have participated in the drafting of those strategies, because today all the documents are done. I'm sorry, but the speech is talkative and lying, and it's not true. Every time he makes a document, the Council, apart from the consultations, has the participation of the citizenry. It even places the obligation to make consultations and periods of public exposure into the law, and this law greatly improves the systems of participation and consultation. Get in touch and let's start around. In any case, they said, "say something and do the opposite." But if we have the very clear examples of what they're doing, and they do it anywhere they come and rule. He said this before the law of 2016: How many things do we hear today from this Law of urgent projects? Which was to impose on the municipalities, which was to destroy the territory, which was for... for everything, for everything in that lying speech. Who asked for the application of that law? I live three times, the Railroad Tide Town Hall, the Santiago Tide Town Hall... and they'll continue, because they're not able to make their plans. Because where they rule, Mrs. Pierres, tell their mayors that we have to come with these laws and these unplanned documents, because once they suspend planning in five years, they don't do anything, nothing and they're still planless. Tell them that. Tell the citizens that they're going to be without an extension of a hospital, or that they're going to be without an industrial polygon, or that they're going to be without the growth of the most important industry in southern Galicia because the Vigo Town Hall, the PSOE, doesn't do the document. No, we have to have laws and we have to draft laws that allow Galicia to continue to develop in order, with discretion. Because all those documents have the same treatment as an amendment to the general plan, the same environmental documents, the same documents and public exhibitions, all the same. Participation is fully guaranteed. They inform the municipalities, they report the municipalities borderline, they inform everyone. I mean, it's a lie that goes over it. In any case — and to finish — we are faced with four amendments that call for the whole, but that are not really to the whole. As I told them, some of them could go perfectly like partial amendments without any problem. They seek this justification, this lying and demagogic speech, surrounded by reality. But tell them one thing: the most important thing is that citizens don't believe them, and they're going to go on without believing them. That's why we saw that pessimism. They were talking about shielding these laws. They were talking about tie. They don't count on ruling in the future. So I like to make it clear that citizens are not deceived, that they are clear! Because if you didn't, it wouldn't be a blouse, because you'd be able to change it. [[Applause]] In any case, we will therefore vote against these amendments. We hope from the People's Group that the opposition groups will be somewhat more constructive, that they will not use this law electorally, that they will put Galicia and its territory before the party interests; please put us forward! So if you're constructive and they put Galicia and the territory ahead, we'll try to reach agreements and get to some transaction in partial amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u25	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u26	In these circumstances we shall vote against it as a whole. In good time, counselor, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u27	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. Replica, amending groups. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u28	Well, since En Marea we consider it disappointing, deeply disappointing the intervention of the People's Party spokesman in this matter, which we understand is what supports the Government's proposal. And it is very disappointing because there were a number of clear proposals for debate, which could give rise to the recognition of technical euvs and which should benefit or harm any training which here wanted to maintain a rational debate on land management. The conclusion, therefore, is that there is no real will to maintain a rational debate on land management in terms that would equally affect everyone, regardless of who ruled, because we believe that the meanings of the proposals we make here to return the project affect equally government who governs them. I mean, spatial planning is good for the whole of citizenship, whoever party exercises the government action. You didn't explain how professional, since the Council couldn't do it in this process, as we solved the antnomy that I formulated with respect to the regulatory hierarchy, with respect to the structure of the land management and its relationship with urban management. With regard to environmental control, it came to be explained why precisely in the territorial projects integrated by circumstances not provided for in the DOT or in the projects of self-interest there was a relaxation in environmental control, in the modification or implementation of those figures in relation to those figures of origin to which they will be modified. Because if the ITP is going to modify the content of DOTs in this way, the normal thing would be that in environmental assessment there was a similar control, at least the one making the instrument of origin to which it is intended to be modified. Well, don't do that, you'll know why. He also put En Marea into the same question as the other groups in citing examples on the current processing of certain projects; which we have not done. And with regard to your concrete claim that if there's a regulatory hierarchy, I'm right here where you say where you are, where you are? Where is the principle of regulatory hierarchy? Article 17.1 states: "Territorial and urban planning instruments form an integrated system which is governed by the principles of competition, speciality and coordination". No reference to the normative hierarchy, and the normative hierarchy is necessary. Coordination is the principle of relation between equals, and hierarchy is the principle of relationship which establishes one degree over another. The hierarchy principle is missing. You say this can be solved in the partial amendments. Oh, God, we're willing to introduce them. You're going to have to go around the law from top to bottom, because it's a change in formulation of the territorial law set. That's the problem. Of course, we have to take a look at everything. Well, we're willing to give it to you, even if it's making a new plant law if it's needed. Look, with the theme of integrated territorial projects and IDPs for unplanned matters, it's an oximor to raise to the category of planning instrument of the territory a figure that is called unplanned circumstances, because the unplanned circumstances are the antonymity of planning. So, when there is an unplanned circumstance of such magnitude that the Land Management Guidelines are affected, the normal thing is to bring about a change, but a change in the Land Management Guidelines, because it's an unexpected reality, a new reality that becomes relevant. It is therefore the same process and not to create a different figure. Well, then, in this way, accredited the territorial disorder that will assume the norm because of the lack of hierarchy between instruments and the lack of hierarchy with regard to sectoral management, particularly urban, but also the rest of the sectors in which the overlapping part is regulated and which remains above territorial management, the question is, who benefits from this situation? Well, it's a sectoral sort of sort that's going to come up with the sort of whole territory. Therefore, in reducing the quality of life of citizens and citizens in the territory, in a degradation of the environment, because the content of the Land Management Guidelines is ignored in these cases, in particular, in the degradation of living conditions, in the degradation of the economy as well, because the planning of the Territory through DOT seeks to make communications and sustainable mobility more efficient, for example. And this can lead to a sector-wide sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of break up with all the land management in this direction. And it's an absolute dislate, regardless of the party to which everyone belongs. So we think that, if this is so, there are really reasons why they're not explaining themselves so that if you do this wrong you can do well. And so we understand that there are particular interests that are above the general interest that justify particularly the incrustation of those planning figures in the unplanned territory. For this reason, we understand that we must oppose each other. And we will also oppose ourselves in the process of partial amendments...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u29	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u30	...to this configuration of a law that deverts territory, which is harmful to the environment, to people, to mobility and to the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u31	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u32	For the BNG will vote in favour of the other amendments in full, because it has become clear here that there are major substantive coincidences, especially in the threats and risks of this new standard around, mainly — I believe it has become clear enough — of what the PIAs suppose, the projects of self-initiation, which they want to open a door and create a course patent — as it became clear — so that these large business groups, these large lobbyists can loot the territory. And, of course, we put here examples of precisely the bad practice in the management and management of the territory. And the case of Mos is an example of a book. Local autonomy, yes, but before local autonomy it turns out that the president of the board, the president of Celta and the mayor of Mos are publicly presenting a project that then becomes an agreement between the Celta and the Town Hall, which is blessed by the board of Galicia, which from the very first moment has said it would go forward. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] On the contrary, the BNG concelers made amends, opposed this project, made allegations and denounced what it means of barbarity and destruction of the mountain. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] As in the case of the POL, as in the case of the third additional provision of the POL, Mr. Martín Fernández Prado. Because you gave me here that you did the POL, didn't you? And why did it serve in the case of the land of Ence? To present them for sixty years to a great multinational, for this purpose served the POL, you disclaimed what they put there and gave your approval to that barbarity of perpetuating there, Ence. I don't know how we have to explain it to them, but it's clear from the documents, because you've come here to say if you've done it, I don't know how many integrated territorial plans. You're lying! At this point, one was made, which was the POL. At this moment he is in writing another, which is that of the Eume, which have not yet been done. But those who are written here, especially those of general planning of the territory, that have to do with the urban areas, with the cities, with the intermediate villages, with those we, have not done. And you know what those territorial plans provide? Locate strategic soil areas for business and industrial and logistics cities. For that they serve those territorial plans, not to come after the IAPs to do this through the back door opening the door to big companies, for the location of new equipment and services; precisely to avoid what's happening now with the bulldozer of Mos. And so on. Yeah, I know they don't like it, but it's reality, and we'll talk about it very soon. [[Murmurs.]] You guys practice here is the policy of "you're going to do," and that has led us to the picture we have in the country. We can also call this the "light doutrine", which is from that legendary mayor of the Guard, who said he was going to make a plan to make a green zone in the mountain, to urbanize the mountain. But that's the Light doctrine. By the way, a mayor convicted of smuggling, the People's Party, who was in jail, because he was a convicted smuggler. And he boasted about it, because he said that same mythical phrase of "the smugglers are the most honest people there are," said Mr. Lighter. His model is also that of the "Lethal Government" — this name was put by his president — the Lethal Government of Ourense, of the ineffable Mr Jacome. Do you remember the lethal government? Do you know what Mr Jacome recently said about his urban policy? Well, that the PXOU could wait because we still have to polish a few balls. That's the urban policy and the depredation of the People's Party's territory: polishing a few corners. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] We offer here a territorial pact that has to go beyond a territorial pact, it has to be a pact also on the environment, on the landscape, on the waste, on mobility. Because you are not the country, you are not the Greek society, you are not the Greek people; you, in any case, represent the forty percent of the Greek society. But there's more society here that's represented and that's also in the streets and that they have to listen because they don't agree with their model. Indeed, your policy is that of Atila in Galicia, you are an exterminating Government. And you, in fact, want to leave everything tied up and tied up. And that's why these rushes come in the final line of the legislation, because you want to leave everything well tied up to make it difficult for the government to come after you, so that they have to take time and work to untie all these of us that you want to leave tied up. [[Murmurs.]] It's the politics of the burned earth. [[Murmurs.]] And you know why, because Mr. Feijó's PP wants to die by killing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u33	Thank you, Mr Bará. Joint Left Group, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u34	Well, in principle, we must tell Mr. Fernández Prado not to interpret my words or put words in my mouth that I didn't say. I didn't talk about Mos, but since you reminded me I'm going to talk about Mos, of course I do. I know that Mos is making a timely change to the general plan — something that should not be a timely change to the general plan, but a revision of the general plan — supported by a mayor of the People's Party and this Galician Union, which is supporting the re-allocation of nearly a million square metres to benefit a particular person, who puts in his starting document of this project that takes one hundred and forty thousand square metres of shopping center to pay for the Sports City. That's it, everyone! And you're doing that two years after you've finally approved the Municipal Management Plan of Mos. That's his way of doing it, we already know it: using public institutions to benefit private interests, a book ball. But it's more: they're on that path right now. But could an unplanned self-interest project be used to perform the action they are doing in Mos? Yes! if it could be in Mos or anywhere else, above what municipal planning says, above the interests of the people of Mos. [[Murmurs.]] It simply shows itself to be, and it must not be in two councils — Madam Counselor, read the law — but exceeds the municipal scope by its transcendence; it does not even have to be in more than one municipality. And it could be used by passing over the desire of the Town Councils. That's the danger of subtle but very important changes that introduce this law. On the other hand, they have again escaped the fundamental debate for this country. If the Land Management Act aims to balance the country, end that imbalance and the abandonment of rural areas, that rural clearing, you have to explain here what are the instruments that will rebalance the country. [[Murmurs.]] Because the fundamental instrument that was to promote certain rural areas, such as integrated territorial plans, was not approved one for that purpose, not one! The metropolitan areas, the metropolitan areas, they didn't speak either. They don't care, and therefore they didn't talk about it. And the administrative coordination, of course, they didn't speak anymore. Because there is no novelty here with regard to administrative coordination, when for twenty-five years it is one of the great eves of this country. On the contrary, the tactic is that of taxation, that of passing over the Town Councils. And you know, they had a lot of allegations from the municipalities of different signs, saying that you affected municipal autonomy, they passed over municipal autonomy, even in private projects, and even private projects that contravene what municipal planning says, which is not true that they have to be public, Mr. Fernández Prado. And of course I said I'm talking about windshields. How am I not going to talk? How am I not going to talk about the wind? How am I not going to talk about, if ninety percent of the sectoral projects of supra-municipal incidence, the ninety percent -- are data -- were they for electricity, wind parks, high-voltage lines and hydroelectric power stations? Ninety percent of the instruments of this law went to the electric sector. How am I not going to talk? And I've already said it: you're the exception of compliance with this law to the electrics, to the voyeur funds, to the banks. Yeah, they say, no, you guys don't go around here, they don't, because they're going to have to have 50 percent of the land owned by the owners. No, you go by the Law of Predation, which we've done before. Because another of the barbarities that you said here is that this was the colophon to urban planning policy. If it's inverse, because land management is defined by the physical organization of space according to a guiding principle, an interdisciplinary and global approach whose objective is a balanced development of the regions. That's the basis for the rest of the instruments, not the other way you've done it. You've already done the Predation Law before, increased the vigency of the environmental impact declaration from four to six years, made the Act 3/2016 for Citroën, deprotected the country in successive accompaniment laws, announced an Environmental Assessment Act to make things easier, and now come with this law also to simplify, agitize, be simple, efficient and practical. For whom? For that ninety percent that benefited from this law. Simplify and facilitate the usual, not the general interest or the rebalancing of this country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u35	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u36	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u37	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u38	Thank you, President. I had already announced at first that this was a law with very few arguments for its defense, and we saw it precisely in the defense of Mr. Fernández Prado, who was really more concerned about accusing the opposition of electoralist and liar, and not so much in defending those apparent virtues and innovations brought by this law. That is the symptom of fear, of fear of an imminent change of government, Mr. Fernández Prado. [[Applause]] In any case, and since I first focused on the final end of the law, which is presented as a clear deviation from the law that already exists towards another that wrongs flexibility with liberalization and transitionality, let me now explain other matters. Some of them have also been pointed out earlier by one of the groups and which responds to the failure of a clearer criterion for the sustainability, energy saving, territorial regeneration, low landscape impact activities and on territorial resources, the environment and landscape. These issues are not minor because, in contrast to other self-regulatory laws and regulations, we show the inability to understand this as the opportunity to improve strategic aspects related to climate change or to the energy crisis, and incorporate essential aspects of current events linked to strategic planning and dynamic management. It is the opportunity to prepare Galicia and its territory against the uncertainties of climate change and massive migratory movements that are taking place globally, as well as to place territorial planning in the new technological and food context and to make a greater fincapé in essential aspects such as health and well-being, since the references to these aspects are merely expositionive and theoretical. It's more: their real potential is nullified by the loss of the only operating instrument to which they were counted, such as the autonomic coordination programs. In the latter case, this bill does not carry with it any kind of real commitment or economic or investor future obligation by the Government of the Galician Union, nor even the scarce and new measures proposed will entail the commitment of greater public spending on the objectives set out. A sign that seems to find the true end pursued with this approval, which is the achievement of a text of good or bad intentions, but without the ability to achieve real and tangible objectives. In fact, I will also be allowed to point out as worrying in the draft of the Landscape Guidelines — it has been published — that it is an absolutely tedious text, almost hieroglyphic, that it becomes poetic in fact for moments and acquitted of very good intentions and recommendations, but with dubious journey, i.e. when at many of its points it is supported by the guides drafted by this council, which, as you will know, are not bound to comply with, and therefore will hardly guarantee the achievement of any objective or end. A question similar to the plausible introduction — you have to say — from the perspective of gender and age in this document, but that remains in a mere statement of intent. There is no obligation or penalty either for non-compliance or for non-consideration. Which is something that happens to many other goals and makes us think of the effective result of this as other laws that introduce goals and purposes of difficult control and obligation to follow. And, in order to finish, he drew attention to the disappearance of any reference, and that it was included in the two laws that, if the bill was passed, they would derogate, the territorial Institute of Studies, an entity of the self-sustaining public sector that currently needs the basis of a rule with sufficient rank to collect its main determinations. A forgetfulness that if it's not such we understand worrying. Therefore, by the various shortcomings that have been exposed, by the limited justification that explains the expiry of an existing territorial law today, by the few contributions that show the preliminary draft of the law presented, by revealing itself as a screen law that puts private interest even above the public, by not taking advantage of the occasion of being a modern and useful law to the current major challenges, such as demographic, housing, the environment, landscape, food, for all this and all the above in the written and oral exhibition, the Galician Socialists' Parliamentary Group once again requests the return of the Territorial Law and will also support the request for the return of the other groups. For our part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. We continue with the other legislative text. Debate taken into consideration of the Proposal for a Law, to present to the Congress of Deputies, of the G.P. Joint reform of Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November 1995 of the Criminal Code, decriminalization of euthanasia and aid to suicide
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u40	To present the motion for a non-law, Mr Villares has the floor by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u41	"Today, tired of institutional disillusionment, I see myself forced to die in hiding, like a criminal. The process that will lead to my death was scrupulously divided into small actions which do not constitute any crime within themselves and which have been carried out by different friendly hands. If the State still persists in punishing my co-operatives, I advise them to cut off their hands because it's the only thing they've brought. As you can see, beside me I have a glass of water that contains a dose of potassium cyanide, when the drink has ceased to exist, giving up my most precious good, my body." Good morning, gentlemen. These words of Ramon Sampedro, delivered on January 12, 1998, marked one before and one after the collective consciousness around the regulation of a fundamental right; a fundamental right that we want to bring to this chamber today. We have formulated the debate on the decriminalization of euthanasia, understood as the assumption of its positive regulation and an indispensable part of the fundamental right to life and to the dignity of the human being. Therefore, the debate of euthanasia is the debate on life, in particular on the regulation of the right to a dignified end of life, as a corollary of the protection of life and, at the same time, of the provision of this legal and moral good by its subject holder, and as a right to decide not to continue to enjoy it, without its provision as the supreme act of freedom and title upon it bringing a sanction to third persons who cooperate in their exercise. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to change the legislation to consider death worthy of a fundamental citizen's right as an integral part of the right to a dignified life as set out in Article 15 of the Spanish Constitution. Dignified death is the only possible end to a dignified life, no one should be condemned to living in unbearable living conditions. This proposal we bring to the House today supports a moral good, the right to a dignified life, and its corollary: the right to a dignified end of life. It presupposes the projection of freedom and of the free right to develop personality in its dimension of right-to-right disposition, that is, of the free right to self-determination on its own body and life itself. It also presupposes the recognition of the right to non-imposition to continue to enjoy the right of life when its holder considers that it, clearly, unequivocally and obviously, cannot be produced in conditions for it minimum dignity by irreversibility and gravity of a situation that causes suffering. Ladies and gentlemen, the idea that moral goods and especially life are indisposable to human beings is the result of a theological conception of moral goods, as given by God, and we cannot impose a theological vision from the state when this is a confessional. The State must respect the beliefs of citizenship, but it must not impose a religious view on the regulation of rights. Ramon Sampedro's case was a revolver in this matter, there was one before and after. Tetraplex after an accident in 1968, he ended his life on January 12, 1998, after a long judicial period in pursuit of a worthy death. Well, in March 2019 the case of Maria José Carrasco reopened the need for the legislator to review the normative provisions relating to this matter, in order to avoid the unfortunate images such as those of arrest and put at the judicial disposal of his man, whose only crime was to seek his companion's peaceful, painless and safe death, demanded by her repeatedly and consciously during the more than thirty years of degenerative illness he had suffered. The decriminalization of euthanasia and aid to suicide is necessary, firstly because of the imperative of a constitutional interpretation of fundamental rights under the type of rector aimed at in article 10 of the Magnum Charter. This constant appeal of the most basic humanity has been living for decades in civil society and is channelled, among others, in a very special and meritorious way, by its constant work, by the Right to Die Dignifiedly Association, which promotes the right of everyone to have complete freedom of his body and his life and to choose freely and legally the time and means to complete it and to defend the right of terminal and irreversible ills the moment to die peacefully and without suffering, if this is his desire. We work hard with this association both in the coordination of this text and in the dissemination of the initiative and to whose representatives we today greet in this forum. The evolution of the social debate was also accompanied by civil society in parallel to the scientific debate on the subject, and thus, as early as 1991, the Group of Criminal Policy Studies, which brings together the most prestigious and prestigious criminalists in the Spanish state, made public a manifesto in favor of the availability of its own life that sought, in the words of Professor Maria Luisa Courda Arnau, the recognition of the dignity of the person and the free development of personality. As it was said, the fundamental rights of the person proclaimed in the Constitution must be interpreted in an integrative and non-contradictory manner with the provisions of article 10, which must be considered as a rector of the constitutional interpretation of fundamental rights. Life — I indicated — is a good worthy of criminal protection. However, this does not derive from the possibility of understanding the right to life as a sort of duty imposed on the citizen, nullifying the freedom and dignity essential and inherent to his own human condition. The question already raised at that time is whether the punishment of those who intervene in the death of those who freely and responsibly decide to put an end to their lives. After two long decades since Ramon Sampedro had decided to voluntarily put an end to his life, the recent case of María José Carrasco has again generated social cristification and recalls that the law usually goes behind the advances and the state of view of society. Legislative power cannot continue to escape or avoid its responsibilities in this matter, and, therefore, social advances related to collective acceptance as a society of practices related to euthanasia and assisted suicide, and citizen malaise through arrests and submission to judicial processes of those who simply provide help to those who want to have their right to life we have and due guarantees. Thus, a recent survey carried out by Metrooscopy indicates that 87% — or 87% — of the Spanish population believes that an incurable patient has the right to assist in bringing an end to his life in a peaceful and painless way. And also in support of this state of opinion, which is absolutely transversal to any ideology, any political preference, any religious belief, last year more than one million signatures were presented in Congress asking once again for the decriminalization of euthanasia. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about putting an end to the injustice of punishing criminally conduct that is not faced with the right to life itself and dignity and the development of free personality. The object of this bill is the amendment to article 143 of the Criminal Code, according to an integrative interpretation of fundamental rights, and taking into account as a rector type article 10 of the Constitution when valuing life as a worthy object. From a legal point of view, euthanasia, the object of the decriminalization that is intended here, is a behavior that, according to the will or interest of the person who demands it, which, in addition, suffers from an incurable injury or disease, which is generally deadly and causes serious suffering and which significantly affects its quality of life, gives rise to production, anticipation or not to adjournment of the end of the life of the affected person. Article 143 has as a legal-protected object life, but this life is not disbanded, it cannot be deduced from the values of dignity and freedom in that protection, and, on the contrary, the search for a worthy death must be valued. This is about the protection of free adoption of decisions that value their own life and the availability of it. They speak experts of the aspiration to die in a manner consistent with the biography of each individual as a personal, complex matter, as life itself, in this case also in its own intimate sphere. What's the state of the situation now? You know different legislative advances, they open new windows of opportunity for the decriminalization of euthanasia, assisted suicide, such as the recognition of the right to self-determination of the patient against the doctor himself. This has been the path to the ethics of care for years, where values prevail over mere data at the end of life. This legislative development has a point of reference in Law 41/2002, the basic regulator of patient autonomy and rights and obligations in relation to clinical information and documentation. In comparison, today, euthanasia is decriminalized in countries around us, in our legal tradition, in European space, as in Holland, Belgium or Switzerland, which have been regulated for years, clarifying the studies — and this is a very relevant fact — that this regulation has been done without giving rise to the cascade effect or the so-called effect that is predicted by its detractors of the regulation of euthanasia, demonstrating the surveys that the exercise of the right takes place smoothly and normally. This, which is already normalized in several countries of our European environment, also has its correlation in several states, in the United States, also in South America, also in Australia; that is, practically on all continents there are already regulations on decriminalization or regulated exercise, the legal exercise of euthanasia. In the Spanish State, currently, there is a criminal regulation in Article 143, which in its paragraph 4, despite the existence of consent by the holder of life's legal property, criminal penalties are imposed on those who cooperate in a necessary way to cause the death of the person even if he so desires. In the autonomous communities, peripheral behaviours have been regulated to this situation, and in the case of the Autonomous Community of Galicia to Law 5/2015, of rights and guarantees of the dignity of terminally ill people, regulates certain aspects that allow them to reach in the best conditions to transit towards the end of life, a rule that is not exempt — and here I have to make an observation — of a necessary development, not as legal as budgetary, in order to ensure the benefits and the rights that are collected there. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the sum of the citizens' claims, social rights, with the support of experts in the field, and technical and legislative progress, can be drawn from the necessary amendment of the Criminal Code, resulting in the introduction of this proposed law. This proposal is referred to in Article 143.4 of the Criminal Code, in the following wording which I now report. First, the criminal protection of life is maintained as a general rule against suicide induction itself; therefore, this situation is also described when it is said, "despite what is stated in the previous paragraphs", which are the ones that regulate the situation of suicide induction. Secondly, with regard to what he decriminalizes, it is said that "he is free from criminal responsibility who on explicit, free and unequivocal request of a person...". That is to say, it is necessary to free and present the provision of consent, therefore as a supreme exercise of the right to freedom of the individual, an individual who, on the other hand, is a human being, which, on the other hand, must suffer. And they are defined as objective conditions that serve as assumptions for decriminalization a serious disease that will necessarily lead to death or an incurable pathology that causes him severe physical or psychological suffering and which is expected to be permanent. The person who, in these conditions, in relation to it — another — causes necessary acts of safe, peaceful and painless death, or cooperates for this, will remain, as it is said, free of criminal responsibility within the established legal framework, subject to a positive regulation of the exercise of law, which nevertheless cannot take place without the prior decriminalization, which is proposed in this bill. I want to resolve several reasons for this legislative opportunity now. First of all, why this writing and not another one. You will surely know, if you've approached the subject, that there are different policy proposals that come up with different realities, and we choose this one and not the other. Why? First of all, because it's a drafting of minimums, it's consensual in addition to the main citizen association that's been working on the subject for decades. It leaves out of regulation various aspects of maximums, such as the regulation of this situation in the age minority or how it is the regulation of anticipated wills in case a person could not decide at the time he wanted to end his days when he lost his judgment. And it also makes unique and exclusively reference to regulation in less serious or irreversible health states. It is therefore a norm that, within all phenomenology, seeks, with its minimal character, the consensus of the House as a whole, taking into account, in addition, the consensus in which most of the population moves. In addition, the administrative aspects of positive regulation are not included in this norm, of course, in order to promote that consensus and to seek a standard which may also be in its administrative dimension as extensive or as intense as it is in the strengthening of the requirements in order to carry out its exercise. A position, to this standard, which has reached — and I want to focus on this in a special way — in the debates given in other legislative chambers of the State, in particular in Catalonia, the position of unanimity of the House, that is, of which no parliamentary group has been held, and that is why I want to make the call to which this rule, with this proposal, has a vocation of consensus, seeks the unanimous support of the House. And why come to an autonomous chamber in a state-of-the-art competition? Well, for a number of reasons. Firstly, because the whole of the Galician society does not want to remain at the forefront of this debate; secondly, because the many legislative projects that have so far taken place failed by the different incidences in recent years in the legislatures in Congress of Deputies; and thirdly, because bills previously presented in other parliaments and which were called upon to debate in Congress of Deputies fell precisely as a result of the early completion of previous legislation. For this reason, from Marea we want the German Parliament to put the debate on the decriminalization of euthanasia in the political agenda of the state, in an imminent manner, because we think that behind it there are situations of suffering that cannot wait any longer, and therefore, from a legislative chamber, from the seat of popular sovereignty, we call precisely the one that should be taken into account that there is the necessary extension of rights that cannot wait. It's over, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the decriminalization of the proposed euthanasia protects, firstly, the right to life unconditionally from those who want to enjoy this right and, secondly, it protects the life of those who are unable to decide about it, and it also protects, on the contrary, the right of those who are in a situation of suffering, a suffering difficult to bear, who decides to end with the enjoyment of that far superior good that is life. This broadens protection to life, ensuring a dignified ending for the human being who is in a situation of suffering so decides, without forcing anyone to do what he doesn't want, without forcing him to die against will and without forcing him to live against will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u42	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u43	Good morning. First of all, greet the representatives of the Right Association to Die Dignified of Galicia. Indeed, Ramon Sampedro had to die in hiding, and if he should hide to die, it's not a worthy death. Today, therefore, the BNG is certainly giving a debate on rights and not a debate on ethical and moral issues. In this parliament, when the processing of the Law on guarantees of human dignity, Law 5/2015, we have already talked a lot about the question of euthanasia, and it was also clear that it was not collected in the law, because there was no agreement, and that this law was a principle to collect people's right to live dignifiedly, but that it was incomplete in the meantime that this article 143.4 had not been amended in order to be able to move forward in regulation. Well, we are actually here today asking for the amendment of that article of the Criminal Code. Death is the final act of each person's personal biography. The imperative of a dignified life also reaches, it must also reach the end of that life, and unfortunately the obtaining of expert help to end its own life in a secure, peaceful and painless way remains outside the scope of free personal decision when, according to the interested person's opinion, the life that remains does not deserve to be lived. Punishing with deprivation of liberty to those who have been asked for help, free, would, repeatedly, be by a person who is in the deplorable situation described in article 143.4 of the Civil Code, we believe that it constitutes cruelty, as well as forcing him to live against his will and throw him into a tragic and violent death. BNG has a clearly favourable position for the decriminalization of euthanasia, to ensure that people can freely decide the moment, the way they want to end their own life, when they consider that life is no longer life, and to do so safely, peaceful and painless with the help they need. We start from the premise that life is a right and life is not an obligation. It does not seem to be received that in a State that is officially aconfessional there are laws with ethical-moral bases directly linked to the Catholic Church. We certainly believe that it is necessary to end this current situation, which turns into a crime what must be a right, the right to choose a worthy death, the right to choose freely how to live and how to die, how we want it to be the end of our lives, and whether or not we want to prolong a situation of suffering, whether physical or psychological. Of course, we believe that the Administration must ensure proper attention during this final process of life, and decriminalizing euthanasia is to act in favour of the dignity of people, allowing and helping to die dignifiedly. For those who show up against it, I ask them to listen to public opinion, to see how sensitivity and support are growing and that society is ahead of legislation. All surveys carried out give a wide and increasing support to this decriminalization, to regulate euthanasia and assisted suicide. If by 2015 surveys showed that 78% of people in the Spanish state were in favour of this practice, this has now increased by 85%. Acquiring the legal recognition of self-control is of relevance to the advancement of citizens' rights. The struggle for a worthy death is part of the struggle for a worthy life and it's a tool to get this to be this way. As I said, we defended this regulation of the right to control of life itself and of death itself, which is the premise contrary to the doctrine of the sacralization of life according to which life does not belong to us, and in the BNG we defend that life itself belongs to each and every one of us. And we need to end the blackmail and taboo of life as divine property administered by religious hierarchies. [[Applause]] We can go to the media. Ramón Sampedro mentioned here, that on January 12, 1998, he decided that he would be helped to take his life after years of struggle in the courts to claim euthanasia, assisted suicide, and that the people who helped him did so would not face the penalty for having committed, according to the law, a crime. We can add the recent case, indeed, of the man of Maria José Carrasco, which we have also seen through the media. We can talk about the case of doctor Luis Montes. And we could talk about some other cases that help to put in the foreground a reality that, even if we want to hide it, exists. And today, legal or otherwise, if you're practicing assisted suicide, if you're practicing euthanasia. During the year that ended the Congress of Deputies arrived thousands of signatures, through different channels: one million signatures collected, on the one hand; three hundred seventy-four thousand, on the other; and ninety-nine thousand, on the other hand, and different causes of different people, of different groups of relatives who lived in the first person this cruel reality of people with suffering who did not want to continue living. And, of course, we insist that the acts of these people that help to end their lives should be regulated. And if you don't decriminalize and regulate, you'll be condemning many people to live years of hell, of pain, because there's a law that tells them that they can't decide about their lives and that they're doomed to live year after year of physical or psychological torture. If we vote in favour of this Parliament today, we will not be the first parliament to do so, the Basque Parliament has already done so, the Catalan Parliament has already done so, they have tried it in other parliaments and have not reached that majority support. Sooner or later this will be a reality. We are going to support this initiative here today, which has only one point and only requests to modify the content of Article 143.4. We also hope that it will not be necessary to debate this because at last in the Congress of Deputies the Law on the regularization of euthanasia is already passed, and that fourthly it will be overdue, that it will not stay in a drawer and that it will not be subject to undue delay, because — I insist — there is a whole society out there that demands that this be regulated. Decriminalizing euthanasia does not mean forcing anyone to apply it, but having the opportunity to choose, the opportunity to have options. To legislate for citizenship to have rights is not to force them to do anything, but to have that instrument if they consider it necessary, that no one imposes upon them the obligation to live a life that they do not want or cannot bear. It's about being the women of your own life, being the women of your own death. And, no more, thanking the Right Association to Die Dignifiedly of Galicia for the struggle they've been fighting for a long time, the statement of this January 12th as the Dignified Day of Death in Galicia in homage to Ramon Sampedro, who has done so much for this cause, nothing more and many thanks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Joint Left Group, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u45	Thank you, President. Good morning. Good morning to the guests too. It is a fact — it is quite evident — that the social conditions, the economic conditions of Galicia and, of course, the whole of the state have changed after the last centuries and the last decades to improve the situation, the living conditions and thus prolong the age at which people live, where people die; people live many more years; basically, the average has increased both in women and men. And even the causes of morbidity and mortality in recent years have changed in our country. This makes people often enjoy a longer life, but on many other occasions they also experience diseases and difficulties that cause physical and psychological suffering over time. I mean, people live many more years, but sometimes they don't live any better. Indeed — if you have moved here — there is a consensus at the social level within the whole of the state, of Spanish society, about the growing support for the regulation of euthanasia, the need to understand as a right the ability to end life or to have its own life when this life has become an element of suffering in those situations of irreversible terminal character that can obviously be proved and that it is clear that they mean for that person not a way of living well but a way of suffering. In that sense, I have the pride of belonging to a political force and to a parliamentary group that has been working with people who defend the need for regulation of euthanasia and presenting different legal texts in Congress of Deputies and Members. We've been discussing some of the first initiatives we've moved on for almost two decades. Obviously, in twenty years support for this regulation is growing, society has also matured and has changed, and conditions since then at the health level have greatly improved in relation to the service that can be provided from public health to control access to the right, on the one hand, to a decent death or, on the other, also to active euthanasia. So, I think it's good, and so we've been saying in the various bills that I have been saying for many years, but also in the last two legislations, through the Joint and United Nations Group, if they have been presented, registered and debated at the Congress of Deputies and Members. From that point of view, of course, we are going to support the handling of this bill that today presents the Joint Group, although it has to be said that it is an initiative that has shortcomings. We — in case we use it — would like to improve it, because obviously the amendment of the Criminal Code is insufficient to regulate the right or access to the very disposition of the person's life. That is to say, it is not enough, of course, to end by suppressing this articulation of the Criminal Code, it is essential, but it is the consequence of regulating a right. We believe that it has to be regulated as if it were to be accessed, that it has to be guaranteed as a right within the public health system and therefore there are many more elements than working on a simple article derogating an article from the Criminal Code. In fact, the norm we need is an organic law, which is why we have presented it on several occasions, which regulates this, because it is a fundamental right and therefore needs a somewhat more serious and a little more accurate legislative formulation. However, we are going to support it, because it is obviously also part of our own programme and we have moved it to debate on several occasions. There's an element about which I would also like to draw attention. Unfortunately today there are many people who continue to die badly also in our country, and indeed, the BNG spokesman referred to this, because we were both rapporteurs in the processing of the rule in the past legislation of the Law on the Rights of terminally ill people in Galicia, who anticipated some elements and certain rights that were also approved in other autonomous communities in the same sense of advancing the legislative matter in relation to the right to die in a dignified way. In that sense, unfortunately and today, from the Joint Left Group we have moved several issues in this matter and we have to regret that not even that law is being properly enforced in our country, and I also want to take this intervention to transfer that the lack of means both in primary care to care for terminally ill people in their homes, as of course, the situation that has many palliative and internal medical services in our hospitals, above all — and we will talk about it tomorrow in the inquiry to the health adviser — in these territorial hospitals, prevent and in many cases hinder equity within the whole of the country of Galicia in access to the right. I believe, regardless of the ability of the parliamentary groups of this House to address themselves with legislative proposals to the Congress of Deputies and Members, that it is also necessary for Members and Members of this House to be concerned with the fulfilment of self-government, with the powers Galicia has in this matter, which, unfortunately, we are in favour of regulating the dignified death transferred to active euthanasia as well, but unfortunately, with regard to passive euthanasia and the elements that have been regulated in that Law on the Rights of Ended Persons in our Country, they continue to fail. In fact, I have to say here that some questions we asked from our group have already been answered a year, a year and a half or so ago, from the Board, which is that some of the centers were still being adapted. Unfortunately, this is not being accomplished and indeed we agree at the bottom of the proposed group that there is much work to be done to meet this element which we logically consider necessary. So much so that, as your ladies and gentlemen know, in this government programme that has been agreed with the Socialist Party, this is an element that has been agreed as a priority in the field of legislation and health matters and that, indeed, we also ask that it be carried out as soon as possible, because obviously the process of a rule and, in this case, of an organic law takes some time. We think it has to be as fast as possible, because we understand that we have to normalize a situation that society has already legalized in some way or normalized within logic. That element makes it necessary that this right can be guaranteed through public health itself, that access can be regulated, that it is necessary also to regulate what means can be provided and that it is coordinated above all with autonomous communities that have subsequently transferred health systems within the country as a whole. Obviously, we from Galicia have enough to say how this service is provided and what are the means the Health Council has to put in this direction. I insist: they continue without even laying down the necessary means to put into effect the rights to passive euthanasia and that limitation of the therapeutic effort that we have regulated since 2015 in our Autonomous Community. In that sense, therefore — I insist — we are going to support this process, although we hope that, in fact, as another of the speakers has moved here, it will be long before the day on which the Government itself moves the bill that leads to consensus among the parliamentary groups, which unfortunately and despite the fact that we from our group have already taken to the beginning of the two earlier legislations, much earlier, was not possible in that sense. And I, in order to finish, transfer that I think society goes far ahead also of its own legislative chambers and I think it's already quite obvious and is quite assumed that, although the public authorities have I believe that as one of their principles the defense of a worthy life, public authorities must also assume the necessity of defending a worthy death, of a good death, understood as a right to live but also a right to be able to die when this situation is necessary to end that suffering. We will therefore support our favourable vote. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u47	Thank you, President. I also want to greet the two people of the Galician Dying Association who accompany us today. Between these two phrases I'm going to quote, it's been twenty-one years. "The day I start forgetting to love I would like to stop living," said Maribel's last year's sentence. And Sampedro said in 1998: "Only the time and evolution of consciences will decide whether my request to die was reasonable or not." Today we are in this debate, which did not open Ramón Sampedro in 1998 but which he actually put on the table and on everyone's conscience in Spain. In those twenty-one years of difference to euthanasia, as already mentioned here, it is legal in Holland, Canada, Belgium, Luxembourg, Colombia and assisted suicide is legal in Switzerland and in several United States. Spain is no longer a pioneer in the regulation of social rights and civil rights; we are, but we are no longer. And I think we should apologize here for stopping being, because those who are out there, the people who are out there, require us to the women and men who make up the legislative power that we are in line with the circumstances. And we haven't been around for years, not many years. We're going to vote in favour. There are several powerful reasons for us to vote in favour of this Joint Group bill. The first of them is that those people who are out there, men and women who are in situations of irreversible death predictions or suffering severe sufferings that in no case will be relieved, have the right to decide when they want to die. The second reason is that these situations are not being corrected by a law of palliative care, in case the person who comes here defends the criteria of the People's Party and the position of the People's Group is going to count on it. We have a Law 5/2015, of June 26, in Galicia, but of which, of course, we do not know at all what the results of its application are despite having requested it, although tomorrow we will ask whoever comes to answer — we assume that the Health Counsellor — on this issue, but that law does not address the irreversible situations of death and the situations of serious physical and mental suffering of the people out there waiting for it to be decriminalized and for euthanasia to be regulated. The third reason is that the people we attend to politics can't look elsewhere, we can't hide, close our eyes as if this didn't exist, and how it doesn't exist, because I don't see it, it won't go with me. For if it exists, because these people exist and must be brave, we must be brave as at those times when civil rights and social rights were the flag of the Government in Spain. Today's debate has nothing to do with sin, we don't talk about sin here. Beyond the personal circumstances of each one, we have to take care of civil rights, not the issues that have to do with religion. It has nothing to do with suicide either. The process of regulating euthanasia is a health act. And besides, it has nothing to do with the murder. So much so that they don't even regulate themselves in the same precept as the Criminal Code. So all those arguments fall by their own weight. Today's debate only has to do with a question, a question as basic as the existence of human beings: with the right of everyone to face their own death as they consider and freely. May it be a good death, which develops its personal decision space beyond the power of the state and the power of autonomous communities and of any kind of government. Because it is first and foremost — you know that they are so advocates of freedom — the personal freedom of each person, a personal decision, conscious, informed, pondered and absolutely free. We're talking about a new civil right, and I don't know if we're going to be up to date on this camera, and all of us to regulate it, a subjective right that affects the fundamental right to life — it's true — And that comes into play with the fourth reason. The state is obliged to legislate it, to protect it. It is the most important fundamental right, but strictly, with a law that guarantees freedom and autonomy to decide freely and consciously when I want to die being in this situation of physical suffering, mental suffering or irreversible death. It's not enough, in any case, to decriminalize just the help lent to die, we know it. This is what is required in this bill, only to reform a paragraph of article 143 of the Criminal Code. We need a law, an organic law that keeps that decision free and autonomous, justified by the suffering of the person. That's the justification. And that's what you're doing, if you're going to do, it's done, it's been truncated by the elections and if you're going to do it again at the Congress of Deputies. There is a law published on the 24th of this month in the Official Journal of the Congress, registered by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and this law, moreover, detipates also, exactly in a very similar way, not technically alike, but if very similar, article 143 of the Criminal Code in its fourth paragraph, but is more complete. You'll probably say it's unconstitutional. He used to read the July debate in Congress and someone, the spokesman who came out on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, dared to say that euthanasia was the fastest, the cheapest, the cleanest. Well, the argument is contrary to human dignity, I would say. They'll probably say it can be unconstitutional. They were also the law of abortion, the law of homosexual marriage, the law of divorce; then it turns out they weren't. We, in any case, aside from what you can say if someone resorts to the Constitutional Court, this new right is that it is protected in the dignity of people, and that is the fundamental thing. [[Applause]] Because dignity is the core of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of 1948; it is the foundation of legal order and social peace, as the Constitution states in its article 10. It's not only a fundamental right, it's the foundation of all the fundamental rights that are regulated in the Spanish Constitution and also in the Statute for the Self-Government of Galicia. This debate has been open for decades now, from a social point of view, from bioethics and from a right perspective, it has been open for decades now, and it has to be closed. We can't look to the other side and that those people who are out there, and who are much braver than we are who are sitting here, have no right to people who suffer and want to die. Our duty is to respond to the demands of society and to the regulation of euthanasia. We don't want you to get trapped. There will be an interpellation tomorrow, as a result of that interpellation there will be a motion. There were also obstacles — I repeat — to the law of divorce, the law of abortion, the law of homosexual marriage. No one forced them to divorce or abort or marry or marry people who loved or didn't love. No one's going to force anyone, no matter how it may be, as said that infamous voicer, cheaper, cleaner, faster, to practice euthanasia, because it depends on the free, meditated personal decision, consented to a person who wants to die. Euthanasia is in Greek the good death, the good death, that's what euthanasia means in Greek, it's the right to die with dignity, and for that we need the help of a professional. It's not enough to decide. And for that we need it to be a public health service. And it is necessary to safeguard the right to conscientious objection of professionals who do or decide not to practice, because they are in their right, euthanasia, and that has to go into organic law, inescapably. And besides -- it's true, yes, I said, yes, it's true -- there's a sensitization in society. Metrooscopy in 2019 said that 87% of people in Spain said they were favorable, they agreed with the regulation and decriminalization of euthanasia, but in 2011—Metroscopy is a private entity—the CIS said that 78% of citizenship in Spain agreed. So we are at the height of most, very majority, of society in Spain and Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Barreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. We greet the people who accompany us today in the rostrum from the Popular Group. Ladies and gentlemen, there are two assurances that all humans are equal: first, that we are all going to die, and second, that we all want to have a good death, with dignity and freedom from suffering. Both ideas appear gathered in the explanatory statement of the Law on guarantees and rights of the dignity of terminally ill people, which we approved in this parliament unanimously in 2015, a magnificent law that was agreed among all groups and that was, in addition, made the conformity of health professionals and that has even been taken as a reference in other communities; a law that is being effectively applied — and there are always things to improve, and will be improved — and that is being used to protect and respect dignity, rights, the wishes of terminal patients, ensuring that they receive palliative care, but also appropriate treatments, both physically and emotionally, at the end of their life. Let me congratulate this parliament but especially the people who have participated in the drafting of that law, because the Galician Parliament has given responsible and effective human response to the most vulnerable patients, those who have less opportunities, less hope, to the terminally ill. And he did it by collecting the feeling of the majority of the Greeks, the desire to avoid the pain and suffering, the suffering at the end of our death, of our life, but also of a loved one; to eliminate the pain, to eliminate the suffering of the sick, but not, ladies, to eliminate the sick. That was how the groups shaped this law, and that's why, ladies and gentlemen, we're all discarding euthanasia. Now, it claims to the Joint Group that there is a social demand. The truth is, asked ambiguously for worthy death, we would all be in favour, ladies and gentlemen. That's what we approved in it and guaranteed by the German law of sick terminals. No matter what, euthanasia is something else, it's going over there. Suppose an action aimed at inflicting painless death on an incurable sick under certain conditions. Maybe the Joint Group is trying to make politics, Mr. Villares, with a question that seems to you or is shown with some ideological burden. But he's wrong. The reflection on euthanasia is not ideological, it does not have to do with left or right blocks, as evidenced by the fact that the Portuguese left has rejected a law on euthanasia on four occasions recently. I am sorry that I cannot have time to reproduce the round-the-spot arguments of the Portuguese Communist Party's spokesman in a debate on euthanasia. In short, it says and considers euthanasia a backwardness of our civilization that would push people to choose an early death in the event of suffering and that, if it is decriminalized, it would help consolidate social and political operations which would introduce relevant social problems and which would lead to early death for those whom society rejects without giving them response or support. The spokesman for the Portuguese Communist Party, ladies and gentlemen, shows by his words that we are not faced with an ideological debate, but with a debate about the type of society we want for the future, and this, ladies and gentlemen, has more to do with our responsibility as public representatives than with our ideology. It is obvious that each of us, from our personal or professional experiences, will have different positions and arguments with regard to euthanasia. Moreover, life, like death, are conceptual pillars of medicine, of law, of philosophy, of psychology, which we cannot trivialize, nor can we rule out the reflections that they have raised and that they arouse. Doctors — and there are several — will remind us that the assistance collected by the Galician law of terminal patients does not cause problems because their performance is part of the good medical practice and that is why it does not meet the conscientious objection, while euthanasia shocks at its hypocritical duty to preserve life, and therefore conscientious objection takes shape, then, as two fundamental rights conflict arises. The World Medical Association places euthanasia out of the ethical action of the doctor and the specialists in palliative care report on an advanced medicine on this land that is the solution for terminal patients, not only those who are at the last stage but also chronic patients who need to improve their quality of life. Those who, like me, approach euthanasia from training and legal experience, do so with the concern of the many legal problems that can bring with you. And here, Mr. Villares, we have found an important reason for rejecting your proposal: that you pose the decriminalization of euthanasia without considering the need to regulate those conducts that would help to kill someone else; it's like a jump to the netless vacuum. The mere decriminalization he proposed would leave absolutely unprotected the most vulnerable people in society, the sick terminals, the disabled, the elderly, and cause many more problems than he intends to solve. Your proposal, as you have just said, is limited to changing a few words in article 143, paragraph 4, of the Criminal Code. You have read it: express, free and unequivocal request from a person who is suffering from a serious illness that will necessarily lead him to death or an incurable pathology that causes him severe physical or psychological suffering and which is expected to be permanent. Without any other legal framework established, ladies and gentlemen, to propose the decriminalization of euthanasia so without any regulation and guarantee, it is irresponsibility, and, in addition, with all due respect, impropriety of a lawyer, aware of the consequences that the proposal might have. If your proposal had been approved and become materialized with any form of request that would fit that description, it could cause death impunity to most chronic or disabled patients. But in addition, Your Honor, in the legal field, you open up a world of possible uncertainties and problems related to the ability of the subject, with possible vices in granting consent or in making the request. The concepts of serious incurable illness, the subjective character of suffering, in addition to the risk of giving nature letters to euthanasic practices, put us on a stage of possible legal insecurity that is not less when we talk about a person's life. You, Mr. Villares, have reflected on the number of nullities of full right of wills or other legal acts that occur by vices of consent, have pondered the demands and guarantees that we equip ourselves to deprive a person of his ability to work; so things would be greater than to deprive them of their own life. But there's a remarkable difference, ladies and gentlemen: life, once lost, does not notice or rest by any more nullity than is declared. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we must act with responsibility, because we are faced with a question that affects the fundamental rights of the person, which is not peaceful, and which, once materialized, does not turn back. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, it is impossible not to feel the emotion of Ramón Sampedro's words or to empathize with people who suffer and suffer from serious illness. How not to consider that pain, gentlemen! if many of us have experienced similar experiences in the past and we are all likely to live them in the future. But even under the effect of that emotion, ladies and gentlemen, we must bear in mind that our function is to legislate and be aware of the effects that the texts we approve have on people's lives. You cite as an example the countries that have decriminalized euthanasia — less than ten in the world — among them Belgium, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Switzerland — with assisted suicide. What happens in these countries, ladies and gentlemen, what is it? It's that the cases of euthanasia have tripled, while the requirements to practice it are less and less. This is what happens, for example, in Switzerland. I read them or the headline: "The right to suicide assisted in Switzerland attracts tourism from death." The article points out that the Swiss country allows assisted suicide whenever it is not done for selfish reasons, and picks up the money from a 75-year-old Swiss retiree who passes by them because they are very revealing: "Remember one of your peers in the gym class for retirees. She was a very active woman, she was about 78 years old, working as a waitress. One day he had an accident on his bi-click and everything changed: he began to have balance problems, his life became dependent on a walker, soon afterward he came to say goodbye, he was going to Exit"—related. Ladies and gentlemen, Exit is one of those private associations or clinics that in Switzerland help those who want to end their life. The article continues to report that this clinic, Exit, "has agreed to include among its statutes the commitment to the freedom to die linked to age; that is, to accompany elderly people who, although they do not suffer terminal diseases, if they are overwhelmed by other evils, accompany them to death." The article, ladies and gentlemen, continues to detail the costs of these services in some of these centres, which amount to EUR 10 000 or 15 000. Maybe you think this can't happen in Spain, that these situations would be channelled through the National Health Service. Let me read to you, ladies and gentlemen, what the Socialist Party's proposal for the regulation of euthanasia law, which the Socialist Parliamentary Group presented at the Congress of Members on Friday last week, to which Mrs Vilán has just mentioned. Article 13: "The provision of assistance to die shall be included in the common portfolio of the national health system and shall be publicly funded." Article 14: "The provision of death aid will be carried out in public, private or concerted health centres" — Mrs Solla, with which we have heard here about private health, Mrs Solla. Ladies and gentlemen, we understand and empathize with all those people and families who feel overwhelmed and brought down by illness and pain, who have lost hope and who do not endure suffering. I myself, like so many Greeks, live daily with a person with a severe, incurable disease, which causes him pain and suffering daily, and with a person 93 years old who, like the Swiss lady, ladies, needs a walker and suffers severe daily pain. I don't conceivable... No, ma'am, no, Mrs. Prado, it's not a barbarity. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't conceive of a society that trivializes death, which considers it normal for people like them to rise up on a day surrendered by suffering and simply decide to die. Look, my grandmother said a few days ago something that came out to her, she said, "I'll die whenever I want." [[Murmurs.]] We all know what he meant, ladies and gentlemen; he meant that until that moment he will continue to do what he can, that he will continue to be accompanied by his family and to count on the assistance and care of the Greek public health, gentlemen. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That is why we will vote against this proposal. First of all, because we don't think euthanasia fits the way to understand the life and death that the Greek society has. Secondly, because the legislation we have given ourselves in matters of care to terminal patients is already preventing suffering and guaranteeing a worthy death in Galicia. And thirdly, Mr Villares, because, as this proposal is formulated, without any kind of control or limitation, it is a false step towards an abyss. It wouldn't be responsible to open in these conditions a door that we can't close and that will take us on a very pendant, very stalemate and with no return. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u50	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u51	Honestly, it's hard for me to understand such late applause for those who propose here to keep people who are suffering irremediably and permanently. I don't understand that anxiety on the right... for harassing the restriction of rights. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] You're not forcing anyone to anything here, you're talking about expanding civil rights, you're talking about extending freedoms, you're not forcing anyone to anything. So these applauses, which will lead to condemnation of suffering people who do not want to continue in suffering, not only assume a lack of obvious empathy, but, in addition, not to walk with the times. And the state of view of this time is already different from what you represent. You're not representing majority social opinion here, even if you have a majority on this camera. Look, the 2015 law doesn't solve the problems we're trying to solve here to the citizenry that's in a certain situation, because the 2015 law solves two peripheral behaviors, the decriminalization of euthanasia that we propose today. It specifically regulates dysthanasia or prevents therapeutic incarnation, which is something other than the regulation of euthanasia; it is the conduct of a doctor who interrupts or ceases to apply therapeutic procedures that tend to arbitrarily delay the increase in death or artificially prolong the agony of a person with no cure or improvement prospects. And that's settled in law. The decriminalization of euthanasia does not refer to this. As this does not refer to terminal sedation, which is also collected and regulated in the law of 2015 as well, the medical activity that applies analgesic or palliative procedures that could produce the effect of shortening a patient's life with terminal prognosis. None of this is what we saw here today. So the 2015 law doesn't solve the problems, which we've seen here formulate, that it has some people in relation to their own existence. So we've come closer to updating the legal order to meet realities that are not being contemplated and that are condemning the suffering of certain citizenship that does not want to continue to suffer. Look, about the legal framework, we have already warned from En Marea, from the very first moment — and so we have clearly said — that we restrict ourselves to the regulation of the criminal framework, to its decriminalization, and in certain circumstances, circumstances which are clearly collected in our proposal for decriminalization. Therefore, there is no legal insecurity. What you're doing is avoiding the negative delimitation of the sphere of freedom and setting the conditions for the positive exercise of the sphere of freedom. Therefore, there is no indetermination. And, therefore, these are also the prerequisites for the positive regulation of the fruits of the administrative exercises, those we renounce here to come to debate in order to seek as much consensus as possible, because from there they can actually foresee administrative exercises in one sense or another, and we do not want to stop the debate to precisely talk about the restricted area of freedom by delimiting precisely the borders. This proposal, as you know, does not ignore, is not my particular, nor the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, it is a proposal behind all the baggage not only of the civil association DMD, which accompanies us today, but also of the largest group of experts and experts in criminal policy of the state and of the most famous in Europe. So it's not, of course, a situation that's going to cause that legal uncertainty, but quite the opposite. In addition, I would like to remind you at the level of legal debate that the decriminalization of euthanasia takes place, in accordance with the provisions of the Criminal Code itself, that the positive conformation of the exercise of the right of articles 15 and 10 of the Constitution are regulated in accordance with the parameters set out in the Criminal Code itself, because paragraph 143.4 provides for such abstention. Therefore, there is no prospect of legal insecurity in this sense. I'll be done soon. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your support for the rest of the opposition groups. I believe that we are collectively responding to a citizen demand that is overwhelmingly majority and that therefore we are in the state of opinion of the time. And let's not dehumanize the debate. Behind this regulation one seeks to alleviate the suffering of those who are currently suffering life stories that no one would want for himself surely. And for those who want it for themselves or who prefer to live with it for themselves, there is no obligation, which is what characterizes this regulation. Penalizing, as it is now, does not prevent these practices, makes them more dangerous, more painful, because good will without good technique sometimes confronts subjects with deficiencies in the world they don't know. Criminal repression only promotes clandestine practices and generates unjust feelings of guilt to those who simply move compassion and humanity. It's over, Mr. President. Today we have been betraying a proposal, a proposal that was an extension of civil rights, the right to live with dignity, a right that does not go against anyone. We only intend to guarantee the right to exercise a dignified and full life until the last moment of existence, something that you seem to deny. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u52	Thank you, Mr. Villares. After we have finished the debate on these legislative texts, we shall proceed to the vote on them. Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u53	Close the doors, please. We shall then proceed to the joint vote on the amendments to the whole refund submitted to the draft land management law. We begin by voting on the amendment of the Joint Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting of the amendment to the total refund of G.P. Mixed to the Territory Planning Bill. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u54	We are now voting for the amendment of the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block of Wales. We vote. Voting of the amendment to the total refund of G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block to the Territorial Law Project. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u55	We are now voting on the amendment of the Left Joint Group. We vote. Voting the amendment to the total return of the G. P. Common Left to the Territorial Management Law Project. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u56	We are now voting on the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting of the amendment to the total refund of G.P. of the Galician Socialists to the draft land management law. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u57	So, rejected the amendments to the whole bill... excuse me? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, it's 2 more -- you understand -- it's going to be 32, before it was 33. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, there's someone who didn't vote, it's okay. So she's refused. We now vote to take the bill into consideration. We vote. Voting of the consideration of the Bill to present before the Congress of Deputies, of the G.P. Joint reform of Organic Law 10/1995, of 23 November, of the Criminal Code, of decriminalization of euthanasia and aid to suicide. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this bill is not taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u58	So the votes were finished. Open the doors, please. Agenda development modification
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u59	We continue with the agenda, in this case, motions. There is a change in the agenda; it has already been reported. Let's go with motions. In the afternoon you'll show up. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the situation of the naval sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u60	There is an amendment tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u61	To formulate this motion, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning to our president, too. The Socialists today bring to this parliament the motion which supports the request made to the Councillor for Economics, Employment and Industry in December, an interpellation in which the Socialists offered the Councillor a agreed motion and which the Councillor accepted at parliamentary headquarters, but which he must have understood to make an agreement with the PSdEG because it was not appropriate in pre-election times. The political strategy outlined by the leaders of the People's Party does not allow them to help solve problems that arise by agreeing to something with the Government of the State. The People's Party, when it does not rule, when it is in the opposition, tends to insult itself, to use words of thick stroke and to discredit the institutions, as indicated by its head of lines, Mr. Pablo Casado, and his spokeswoman at Congress, Mrs. Cayetana Álvarez de Toledo. [[Applause]] Mr. Casado doesn't allow them to reach agreements that help solve the problems that would improve the lives of the Greeks and the Greeks. You put the party ahead of you to improve the living conditions of our country's men and women. I think of that statement made several times by his colleague of the People's Party, that Montoro, who, when he was not a minister and was still in opposition, said, "Let Spain fall, that we will raise it up already." In Galicia, when they're afraid to lose the German Government, they get nervous and copy the radicals of their party and, instead of looking for agreements, they're looking for confrontation. I warn you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party: using the weapons of the far right sharpens the extreme right. Be careful! [[Applause]] And be careful, too, because these attitudes can lead us to a path, to all of us, of difficult return. Anyway, if you're looking for solutions to this serious problem that we socialists bring here today, they have the opportunity to manifest this commitment to the needs of our territory and they have the opportunity to bet on the joint search for solutions to the future of the company and the sector, as well as on the maintenance of jobs, or on the contrary, to do what they usually do: to disrupt agreements and to put themselves on the side of particular interests. The concern of the Socialists for the Galician industrial crisis due to the non-existent industrial policy of the Galician Union in eleven years that has been ruling the People's Party has been constant, as we have expressed in the debate of many initiatives, both in the plenary and in the commission, legislating after legislation. The Galician Union, ruled by the People's Party, has a very important part of guilt, that is, the most important part of the industrial crisis that our country is suffering from. I would like to remind you once again that the Autonomy Statute — and I will not tire of repeating it — sets out in its Article 30 that the Autonomous Community of Galicia has exclusive competence in promoting and planning economic activity in Galicia and in industry. And it's worth recalling over and over again what their powers are and, therefore, what their duties as rulers of this country. Stop looking for culprits in other administrations when you don't rule them. They govern and manage, that for that they were elected by the Greeks and the Greeks; not to seek guilty, but to achieve solutions. You just approved some budgets that affect the same industrial policy failure. And their lack of consensus has been shown once again in the processing of these budgets, in which they have exhausted any possibility of agreeing. 88 amendments were tabled by the socialists, who, along with the cross-sectional amendment, would move a total of EUR 188 million, which you refused. They were rejected over and over again simply by political ideology and not by favoring the economic sectors of our country. In eleven years of government of Nuñez Feijóo industrial policy has never been in its priorities; an industrial policy, that of the People's Party, which placed Galicia in 197 over 268 European territories, 16 posts less than three years ago, occupying the tenth position of all autonomous communities. Employment policy, being the second major concern of Galician citizenship, is the first major failure of the management of Galician Union. To generate jobs, and quality jobs, we have to have a strong industrial fabric. A strong industrial fabric and stable employment allow people to settle. Look, these eleven years of the People's Party's government on the board of Galicia we can call them "the government of the fairy tales of Feijóo." And today I'm going to remind you of one of those stories, which is also called "Pemex's story." The story began in the spring of 2012, in an electoral pre-campaign, when President Feijóo returned on a journey from Mexico with Mariano Rajoy; a story with a prime time disconnection of public television, television for all, so that President Feijóo presented the Mexican company Pemex. In the argumentary of his protagonist, he titled chapter I of the story as Historical Opportunity for the Welsh naval sector. In its chapter II, entitled Strategic Alliance — and already dated at the end of 2012 — it was broadcast again on television by everyone and by all the Greeks, at the Peace of Raxoi, the charge of two fleets of Pemex for the Greek shipyards. This chapter the president of the Galician Union defined it as "one of the best economic and employment news of recent times." He said these contracts were endorsed not only financially, but by conviction and realism. Those were the words of the president of Galician Union. A tale that excited us in electoral pre-package with the construction of ships, logistics base, fleets, tank vessels, tuna, support ship, hotel ship, fleet renovation, chemical and several tugs. Finally, in chapter III of this story, already in 2013 and in another electoral pre-campaign, Pemex announced the entry into the capital of Barreras with control of 51% of the shares to strengthen that strategic alliance that the Galician Union pushed with the oil tanker. The outcome of the story was not as expected and, although Pemex announced the construction of a third fleet in September 2015 on the Barreras yard, in November 2016 it already stated that this new ship would not be built and paralysed the future — and not started — logistics base of Punta Langosteira, in the Coruña. The reality is: two fleets built — the only result of the gigantic advertising and propaganda operation — and, seven years after the presentation, Pemex's decision to abandon Barreras and Galicia; and colorin, colorful, the tale of Pemex ended. And when the story is over and the promises made fade, the Greek Government only needs to seek guilty and use all its ammunition to attack the Government of Spain, forgetting that they have the obligation and mandate to govern, for the sake of the country, for the sake of its people, and that they must seek alliances with the Government of the State, regardless of who governs them, to give them solutions to all these problems. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I remind you that February 2nd, in four days, completes the pre-competition. We'd like to know what the councilman did, what the Council did, and what the president of the board did — who brought us here to Pemex. We want to know if he, the councillor or some member of his council, who had various meetings and numerous meetings — we count to ten — with the Ministry of Industry to try to reach an agreement between all sides — in which the Central Government was, the Union, Pymar, Cesce and Pemex — came to some solution. What solutions did they come to? What commitments did the Economic Counsellor come to after all these meetings? Because it seems that every time there's a pre-agreement to the Galician Union, it opts not to ratify this pre-agreement. We'd like to know if the Economic Councilman has fulfilled the commitments made at those meetings and what is the position of the Galician Council with respect to shareholders. We'd like to know the socialists what the binding of Galician Union is with García Costas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u63	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u64	I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u65	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u66	And we'd like to know, about the five million euros that were requested from the Board to have liquidity, which is the current position of the Board of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u67	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. The Joint Group has the floor Mr. Casal Vidal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u68	Good morning to all and to all. Thank you, Mr. President. In his intervention in the inquiry that motivates this motion, in the past full, the Industry Counsellor explicitly said: If they want to talk about industrial policy I have no problem, let's talk about industrial policy. But there was the thing, and it began to explain what the People's Party and the Government of Galicia understood as industrial politics. First command of industrial policy in Galicia: to be a spectator of what happens in industry and, if what happens can become headlines, set up a brutal advertising campaign—"everything is thanks to us." Second commandment: when things are twisted, nothing is accomplished by the announcer, and the failure of planning and real projects is evidenced, to put in place the second phase: "everything is to blame..." Of course, it's never the responsibility of the Government of Galicia. It was also stated in its 2020 budgets: in the face of the industrial debate in Galicia, there was no specific development or innovation game for major industrial projects. And all this implies? Well, it means that industrial agents don't take this government seriously. And that's finally Galician suffering and industrial employment. He passed with Naturgy and Meirama, Endesa and the Bridges, with Alcoa with the matter of gas on the aluminium plant, with the defeat of Pemex and so on. As they're kind spectators, they take their hair. And everything takes them by surprise and without plans and alternative initiatives. It's also reflected in the ridiculous investment figure elsewhere in Galicia. And what there is is is financial -- that is, they take part in companies that already exist in Galicia, there is no big new project. The Galician Union rests the entire industrial future of Galicia on drones, where tens of millions of public euros — over 100 million euros — have been invested. Let's hope it really turns into a powerful sector that generates thousands of jobs, but we have our doubts. What will happen to Babcock or Indra when it ends the rain of millions of public? Who's to blame in this case? And by now going to the naval industry, a story of great virtual success and coverage in newspapers, it's a joke of great taste at seeing the current reality. But you're still full-fledged in virtuality. And day after day they keep saying that we have a huge load of work on the yards, when a very important part has either been lost or is in the air. And they don't take them seriously here either. Why doesn't Ritz-Carlton want to negotiate with this government the possible solutions to Barriers? It would be nice if they answered why Barreras didn't want to talk to the Galician Union. Don't you have any doubts if you're going to give a solution to Barreras or if you're going to defend the interests of your friend García Costas? That's why we need strategic action across the sector on the line not to lose productive capacity in the naval, which, for example, could not be recovered if Vulcan lands are engaged in another activity. And that's where our addition amendment goes. We believe that there must be innovative proposals and therefore we urge the Council of Galicia to put in place a project to create a large ship repair base — as auxiliary companies have proposed — which could be installed in Vulcan and Metalships. But, of course, that would be to take the initiative and be directly responsible for a project. And that's against your first order of industrial policy, to be a spectator. It would also jeopardize the fulfilment of the second commandment, that, if something goes wrong, have a blame for it. For this they are truly predictable and creative, but in this case they would also have been hard to find a culprit if the initiative was yours. All the indicators indicate that the naval industry has and will have very important expectations in the coming years. Galicia cannot lose productive capacity. But also following their first industrial policy mandate, they don't want to apply for entry into the Navantia Board of Directors and have voice and ability to influence and decide there. It's better and cleaner to protest than to propose. That's why they follow expectations in the Navantia industrial plan instead of being proactive by presenting an alternative. That's why they don't have budgets to encourage Navantia and its auxiliary companies to be able to be an integral agent in the offshore wind sector, where spectacular growth is expected in the short and medium term. Because Navantia cannot continue in this sector as a mere subcontractor for the production of third-party patent media, a very minority part of this business. Navantia has innovative and productive capacity to be an integral provider of offshore parks promoters. You can design and manufacture both supports and turbines with...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u69	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u70	Yes. The Galician Union should have a plan to ensure that that road is set in motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u71	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u72	The rabbits of Mr. Feijó's joke come out, one after the other. Inventing the upcoming elections in Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u73	Your time is up, Mr. Casal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, you have the floor of Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u74	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. The spokeswoman of the Socialist Party spoke of stories and I wanted to start reading something too. "Unfortunately, the situation after the conversion of Vigo shipyards is very different. The productive situation of the building is generally good, as reflected in the historical levels of recruitment and employment at the end of 2008. It must be made clear, however, that their heritage situation is not yet solid. In most cases, their balance sheets reflect an already chronic lack of own resources and a very small maneuver background. The impact of the current financial crisis is preventing access to short-term sources of financing [...]. Although the schedule of applications remains important, if the current credit restrictions persist, they could prevent new contracts from being signed. It must be noted that a sustainable structure for shipbuilding can only be achieved by the presence of strong and well-funded auxiliary companies. There is no point in continuing to maintain a tender policy and lack of clear support since the administration with a sector that is being consolidated as fundamental. The future of our shipbuilding demands a firm commitment for support from the European Union and the Greek financial institutions." This isn't a story, though it's science fiction. It's the law of the Galician naval. It's four strokes, four strokes that couldn't condense the most obvious sample of the industrial policy failure of the Galician Union, because, ten years after its promulgation, in 2010, are these Greek financial entities? [[Applause]] You want some? Absolutely dismantled, and smashed the Greek financial system. And where has the support of the Galician Union been during these years? Where have you been? If they can find him, they'll bring some evidence here. Because the truth is, at that moment there was an economic crisis, yes. But it's no less true that since 2014, when the German gross domestic product began to grow, the People's Party has also continued to refuse to generate adequate financial instruments to support our productive sectors. Tomorrow — that we will talk about the Igape — we will also be able to talk about this issue. The bottom line is that, ten years after the implementation of the naval law, there's only one failure on the part of the Galician Union, because I didn't want to meet their industrial competences when they ruled their own in Madrid and now they don't want to rule others. The only thing they've applied was the deregulation, demeanor and the thinning of economic support and also of the innovative muscle, because they've been framed for years in that telepathy that's "Star 4.0" and that's never just arrived. And the proof of failure is not only what's going on with Barreras and Vulcano in Vigo, but that we can also debate ahead on the agenda with an initiative that will defend my colleague Louis Bará, but in general terms. In fact, by putting a data on a body that you yourself are chairing — an ex-counsel of the People's Party — the Economic and Social Council, recently a couple of years ago, in the document By an alliance in the Italian industrial sector — which you are not developing either — was diagnosed with something so important that the naval has only modified its innovative performance in recent years, and this is less than the average of the German business fabric. I mean, if we have a problem in the innovative Greek ecosystem, we have a bigger problem still in sectors where we had to bet on, like the naval. And from these there comes these muds. In addition to those comic books that Mrs. Rumbo had already told us about Pemex, we could also talk about the latest excursions to Argentina, of which they brought headlines and headlines but nothing in particular. We can talk about your connections with Mr. García Costas and his militia in the People's Party. We can also talk about the expulsion of qualified personnel, especially in the southern part of this country, which now brings many problems. We can also talk about the permanent crisis with the auxiliary industry. I quoted what this naval law says about the auxiliary industry as a part of the naval sector, which you have neglected and allowed you to walk towards unassuming exploitation rates. We can also talk about all these years voting against any initiative or amendment to the budgets that bets by a ship repair centre in the south of our country, etc. And, therefore, because of these, those muds. We are going to vote in favour of this initiative of the Socialist Party, because on the issue of the Port Authority of Vigo we bring a similar proposal. We also ask the Socialist Party to have responsibility and also to pressure the state. We will also press both the state and the Union. And we're also going to vote favourably because it puts the key question of developing that naval law in something as elementary as convening that table on the role exists, in something as elementary as providing financial support...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u75	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u76	...and in something as elementary as making a strategic plan for the naval sector. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u77	Thank you very much, Mrs. Noa. For the Joint Left Group, you have the floor to Mrs. Chao Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u78	Good day to all and to all. Once again we have to talk in this House about the difficult situation that is going through some of the main shipyards in the country, especially in the city of Vigo, where we have already commented that hundreds of families have been waiting for months for some solution to the uncertainty situation they are suffering. First, as we have noted, it was Vulcan and that story of promises and non-compliances signed by Mr. Cividanes and the Industry Counsellor, who were first going to support them and then, when it was the time of truth, they disappeared. It's the story of how the German Government dropped a whole yard without offering a single proposal, of dozens of abandoned workers to their luck two weeks ago they already entered the liquidation process by Fogasa. That's how all the industrial problems in this country end, without Mr. Count, without the Industry Advisor, being able to put a single solution on the table. We have already said it here on other occasions: we hope that when the People's Party takes the floor, they will be able to give a single example of what the Industry Council's performance was decisive in reactivating and solving some industrial tissue-related problem. There's no, there's no, that's why they carry on their backs 22,500 industrial jobs destroyed in a decade, 22,500 jobs in industry that account for one in three jobs that were destroyed in industry throughout the state. But there's absolutely nothing going on here, no solutions or no liability. On the contrary, Mr. Feijóo, instead of worrying and taking care of himself, prefers to activate the propaganda machinery and say that in the naval everything is all right. And if anything fails, we know, we always have the Pedro Sánchez wild, forgetting the painful data we have just put on the table of industrial destruction and forgetting the direct competition that the Galician Union has in industrial policy. Did I do something with the German Government today to ensure that the Vulcan factory will continue to be inserted into the industrial fabric? Something for López Veiga to rectify and abandon his efforts to convert his lands? According to the workers themselves, absolutely nothing. For the People's Party, advertising and propaganda; for the workers and workers in this country, a much tougher reality than the dismissals, the abandonment and the absolute lack of information. For the People's Party, the photographs, the first-time announcements on public television paid throughout the citizenship, Pemex, Barreras, García Costas and that intruder of corruption and dangerous friends of Mr. Feijóo. At the end of the story, as Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo has already told, we already know it: the promised ships have never arrived, as they have not arrived from the outer port of the Crown; and the Council, disappeared and giving foreign excuses not to compromise. Well, look, today we can read in the press that finally comes the funding needed to finish the Ritz-Carlton cruise, a requirement that the advisor said it was essential to compromise in this situation. We hope to see what they do then in the next few days, getting engaged, as he said they would. We're afraid, we imagine, that'll be nothing. As we have said on numerous occasions, and as it theoretically defends the Government of Greece, shipbuilding is a sector of strategic importance to Galicia for its tractor capacity over other industrial services, for its high technological content, for its degree of internationalization — 90% of production is destined for foreign markets — and, above all, for its importance in employment. It's an entirely integrated activity in our economy, something that happens to very few productive sectors, with the practical whole value chain located in our country — specialized services, structures, propulsion systems, electricity, some of the specialties in which Greek auxiliary companies are leading, the vast majority of small and medium-sized companies that are very dependent on shipbuilding. It is a strategic sector which, due to the enormous amount of resources it needs to bring forward production, requires the support decided by public administrations, which unfortunately do not have in the Government of Galicia. For this reason, we will support the Socialist Party's initiative, which includes some of the fundamental demands that we have defended on many occasions in this House, such as the urgent convening of the naval table, to which the People's Party denies itself again and again without a single argument on the table — that is what trade unions and workers are asking for, and we will probably see again today how they say no — or the conditioning of public aid to the maintenance of jobs — it is enough to inject public money into the private sector, which only serves to fatten the profit accounts by leaving the workers and the workers to their fate. We must urge them to commit themselves. And of course we expect once and for all that the Greek Government assumes the urgency of negotiating with the Port Authority of Vigo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u79	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u80	...to ensure the continuity of Vulcan factory, necessary to make Vicalsa's offer viable above the table. There are many families that depend on this solution. We're waiting for a yes from the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u81	Thank you very much, Mrs Chao. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Egerique Mosquera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u82	Good morning. Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Armada, Montenegro, Armón, Freire, Lagos, Rodman or Metalships are shipyards too. I don't know if you know them. They work full performance. They spoke six years ago and, thanks to a policy of the Galician Union, of Alberto Núñez Feijóo and industry advisors, they managed to get the work load ahead. They had their grades full and they were empty. And also Baliño, Regenosa, etc., many auxiliary companies. You take a peonza, with Barreras and Vulcan, which are two problems that are above the table and by which this board has always turned its face, and they start to turn around. Mr. Casal, you say it's cleaner to protest than to propose. For you it's much cleaner to protest than to propose. They're not proposing anything at all. They absolutely don't know the sector. So, since they have nothing else to do, the only thing they do is interpellations and direct opposition to the Government of Galician Council of Beijó. I see that today, for a few days now, you are very calm, very calm, yes, yes, with a quiet layer with the central government, because we have to put all that is in these cases on the table, I insist, in this question concerning Barriers and Vulcan. Look, they want to protest so much, Mr. Casal, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, Mrs. Chao and Mrs. Noa Presas, that they haven't made any proposals. The Socialist Party on November 22 said here it had a solution for Barriers. What is it? Were you there to explain it to the workers? Do you think that a sheet cutter or a person working there, all the people who are waiting, are very interested in you talking about the voice of the People's Party in Congress, speaking here about the Montor Minister? Do you think they care a lot? Because, then, I think for that solution that you promised on November 22 are waiting there. Where is that solution, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo? Look, the first thing is that you're just accusing, but you don't offer solutions. That's the first thing I've ever said on several occasions. Look, the board, Pymar, Ritz-Carlton and Barriers put the cards on the table. They had several meetings, several public meetings, several meetings of those who realized — not like some ministers who have meetings of those who don't count and give several different versions —. The Greek administration has set out the fundamental conditions, very clear from the beginning, and always the same conditions: ensuring jobs, ensuring the work and the viability of the assistants — for which Igape recently opened a line of help for their maintenance — to guarantee jobs and the full steps for the future, not to make a ship that is bread for today and hungry for tomorrow. Look, let's stop saying all these things, that there's a huge amount of demagogy here. The deep problem of Barriers I don't know if you know him. Because, of course, they come here and they talk, like Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, which is the one that makes the motion, the Government of the People's Party, or the Group of the People's Party in Madrid, which is very curious. And look, you forget, as I said before, that in the worst years of the ship's crisis Barreras was closed, I had the closing sign. And this board of Galicia played a fundamental role — yes, it is true — in the Pemex Barreras alliance. But that alliance was a burden of work and I've been planning it for many years for thousands of people and thousands of families. And now of course they're waiting for a solution, from which the Union, moreover, is forming part with all the external support it has to have. You say Industry 4.0, Naval 4.0 is a utopia. Look, all the names of the yards I said before -- and they're not all -- are working full performance. And the EUR 50 million that this Galician Union dedicates to the naval sector does a pointer and reference throughout Spain and across Europe. So you don't try to focus the debate on two shipyards that have problems, but for which the Union has always looked. So what do you have to say, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, of the Government of Spain? What role will the Minister of Industry play? Will you drown the naval sector as well as the electrointensives are drowning, as is drowning also the sea sector under the rules of the Back Law, which will leave thousands of women and thousands of people in the street? You're completely closing down all the industries in Galicia, and that's what you have to say here today. Look, now that everyone is a government -- because all the parties that are in opposition in Galicia are a government in Spain -- they can give solutions, they can go there and claim everything they say. Because it is curious that in the investment agreement of the Nationalist Block Galego, in the government agreement, there is nothing about Navantia, which is also a public sector! Nothing appears at all. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Now they're going to solve all Galician problems. How you can't solve them from Galicia will solve Galicia's problems from Madrid.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u83	Quiet, quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u84	Look, we, from the People's Party, have done things. We've got facts! It's just that we didn't hide our face when you came here talking. The Industry Advisor never had trouble talking about this problem and going to Vigo to look the other way. I, from the voices that came out here, saw none in front of Barreras face-to-face, or Vulcan face-to-face. And, therefore, stories, stories, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, are yours. [[Strong murmurers.]] Accounts are yours.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u85	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u86	And, look, we have a deep uncertainty today, I insist, by the Government of Spain. We would be willing to support that table, because it is true that now the sector is asking for it. When you ask for it... it's true, yes, the sector asks for it, because there's permanent contact. [[Balbordo.]] And on the point of investment, you vote, at one point 4, they call for Igape's investment, which is already there. We will vote for points and support the points that are totally consistent with what the People's Party is doing with the naval sector, which is who rescued it and not...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u87	Thank you very much, Mrs. Egerique. We welcome, on behalf of all, the fifth primary students of CEIP Cabanas, of Pontevedra, who have just entered the plenary. Good morning, everyone. And we give the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, by the parliamentary group that is responsible for the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u88	Thank you, Mr. President. Welcome, children and teachers and teachers. Mrs. Egerigue Mosquera, what do you want, that we don't betray initiatives? What do you want, to apply the mordaza law passed by your party in this German Parliament? So we're going to bring all the initiatives we consider! [[Applause]] And you — not in that case, but the Government — must come to answer what we have consulted and what we ask.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u89	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u90	You're talking about the counselor coming up with his face. And then what do you mean, don't face it? It's a democratic obligation! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u91	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u92	It's a democratic obligation! [[Mr. Egerique Mosquera speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Egerique, you had your turn and I didn't interrupt you. I also get a lot of attention when you say -- even though in my speech I had quite a relationship and I didn't go through the branches, as you did -- that sheet cutters don't care what the political line of the party that supports the Government of Galicia is. Well, they're interested! They have a vote and they have opinions to know what the Government's lines are governing in this Galician Union. And so they have a voice, they have a vote, and they have a right to think. [[Applause]] I used to say Mr. Casal, at the beginning of his speech, that the counselor said that when we wanted to come here to talk about industrial policy. At the moment, when it was the debate of the inquiry, I told you — and I now ratify myself again — that the naval sector is also part of this country's industrial policy. So he'll come here every time we want him to face us so he can answer us about what he's doing for the naval sector in Galicia. You rule the impulse blow, without programming and no planning. And I ask you again: why, whenever there seems to be a pre-agreement in these meetings — as I have already told you in my first exhibition, there have already been more than ten and there have been several pre-agreements — the Council of Galicia finally does not ratify any of these pre-agreements? What were the commitments made by the Galician Union in the Ministry, at the ten meetings convened in the Ministry of Industry and at which the Ministry of Industry has always participated? What were the commitments made? Did you buy some of those commitments from Galicia? What is Galicia's position on shareholders? Tell us. And, above all, we would like to know what the binding of Galician Union is with Mr. García Costas. Explain it, please, because we have a lot of uncertainty, a lot of uncertainty! And we'd also like to know -- I was asking before -- what happens to those five million people who were asked to join us. You were talking about help to auxiliary companies, but directly to Barreras they didn't get any help lines.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u93	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u94	Our motion is to set up the table of the galego naval, in which all the agents related to the sector are present —Joint of Galicia, trade unions, employers and auxiliary companies —...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u95	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u96	...in order to achieve possible solutions to the situation of the Galician naval sector.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u97	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u98	If you're going to vote against...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u99	Thank you very much for your intervention. Your time is up. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Thank you very much. G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, on the policy of the Government of Galicia in relation to emergency hospital services
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u100	No amendments were tabled to this motion. To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u101	Very good day again. At the last round of last session we questioned the Health Counsellor about what actions he was putting in place the Government of Greece to prevent collapses in emergency services. The truth is, we didn't get any answers beyond the already known flaps and they didn't give an answer. And there is still a great deal of concern about the public health situation because of the determined steps the People's Party continues to push it towards the precipice. Health remains one of the greatest concerns of the Greeks. And in a democratic work, published yesterday by a means of communication of the highest diffusion in our country, health comes back as the third element of concern for the Greeks and the Greeks, only surpassed by the situation of unemployment and the quality of employment; that is, by the precarious situation in which many of the Greeks and the Greeks, among which are a very important part of the professionals of public health. And it's not by any chance that this is the case. If we had a public health as fantastic as the People's Party preaches, it wouldn't be the third element of concern for the Greeks and the Greeks systematically year after year. Because it was already in 2019, we're in 2020 and it's still a third cause of concern. The People's Party, with Feijó to the head, insists on trying to impose that fraudulent story of normality. And in view of that fraudulent account, because then there is no need to present alternatives because, as everything is all right, there is nothing to solve. But, as much as they intend to hide this situation, it shows itself day by day, with all their cruelty—there is nothing but the media to see what the reality is—that one day and the other also does not stop protesting about the health situation, about the situation of emergency services. And it's just that -- I'm telling you again -- you can't expect different results. And the People's Party has been doing the same for years; that is, not to put on alternatives, not to put on solutions, maintaining that position of deterioration of our country's public health. We can start by wherever we want — north, south, east or west of our country — but the complaints about the emergency situation of our country's hospitals are all over the geography. We can start by Montecelo and we can refer to the story of one of the optional people serving in this hospital, who says, "It's eight in the morning, there are 15 patients without beds; people who have everything ready to enter at eleven in the morning and, with good luck, they can also climb the plant that corresponds to them by the end of the afternoon or in the morning. Or, if not, you offer them, if they want, to be able to go to Quirón Hospital" — private. I mean, that's the alternative, to be there stacked or, as a solution, to be able to enter Quiron Hospital. Says this professional: "There are 160-170 people per day on average, we can reach 200 people quietly. And statistics say that between 14 and 15 percent of these people will need income." It's easy to count. If we're talking about an average of 170 to 200 people, because we're talking about 26-30 people who are going to need admission to Montecelo Hospital. In view of which the normal thing would have been to forecast which actions and resources must be ready to meet this demand, but it is not done. We can follow the HULA complaints, we can talk about the Coast Hospital, we can talk about the CHUO, we can talk about Salnes, we can talk about the Coruña. And there's a similar situation in Salnes. It's congested. They say the problem is not just winter, but there's a constant increase in professionals. And every day there are an average of 130 patients — not a comarcal hospital an average of 130 in emergencies — last Monday, 159; Tuesday, 129; 164; Wednesday, 131; Thursday, 130; Friday, 131; Saturday, 141; Sunday. And what is the solution? Well, since there are no beds, they're in an emergency room, an extension of the plant rooms in an emergency room. As we all know, emergencies are not the place to care for patients who have to be hospitalized, because there are no resources and because they need permanent care. We can talk about Álvaro Cunqueiro, with an increase of 50 people on average every day. And we can talk about complaints about the situation in the ULA, where they talk about concession in the service. They talk about observational income as long as beds are closed and they talk about a lack of organization throughout the service. We can talk about Ourense, where they talk about organizational chaos in the service. It is such a degree of boredom that in the waiting rooms it is practically impossible to access to care for patients. We can talk about the CHUAC, where we've already denounced the situation, with people all over the corridors. They even wanted to enable an access corridor where they've already made permanent fixation of nursing control tables in the corridors. Well, this is the situation of emergency services in hospitals in our country. That's why the BNG brings here today a motion that demands measures to solve the structural problem. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we are talking about a structural problem that is not solved with patches, and less when they are already saturated, collapsed, emergency services, but we must act in advance. We're not going to get tired of repeating that we're facing a structural problem that's not solved with patches. We're not going to get tired of saying that emergencies can't be treated in a precarious situation as they are being treated. The irresponsibility of the People's Party is putting professionals and patients at risk. Professionals need work guarantees, they can't be sold every day, and Welsh and Welsh people need quality and decent health care. [[Applause]] Waiting for hours to be cared for is not dignity, waiting for hours and days to be entered into a bed is not a attention with dignity. Being cared for in a corridor isn't a attention with dignity. That's why we present this motion, by which we demand, firstly, in a clear and high way, that we should carry out the dimensioning of emergency services in order to end this situation of continuously caring for people in corridors. This attention in the corridors is supposed to subject professionals to a situation where they cannot give quality assistance and people to a situation of lack of privacy and a lack of dignity. Staff deficits need to be rectified immediately. A couple of professionals cannot be hired at the last hour to solve a structural problem. Professionals say that emergency services are low in size, that under normal conditions there are few professionals already, and that as soon as there's an increase in emergency services there's an increase in attendance, it's already turning that insufficiency into an alarm. We call on Parliament to submit, as soon as possible, a report on contingency plans. They always tell us that there are contingency plans, but why don't they put them in writing?, why aren't they in public knowledge?, why don't they know about this Parliament?, why don't they know about professionals so they really know what these contingency plans consist of, when they are activated and what they consist of? We demand to have all the resources that Sergas has and that no more bed is kept closed, because beds are still closed in the Greek hospitals and because the People's Party government has eliminated more than eight hundred beds in these ten years. [[Applause]] That's the reality. We demand to present a human resources management plan that enables us to establish what is the ratio, what are the needs of services to avoid reaching these situations of collapse. We need to put in place the necessary budgetary resources so primary care can be resolvative. What good is it to tell the population that they are vaccinated — which we agree — or that they go to the health center for the flu processes when they get to the health center and they don't have a doctor to care for them, when they get to the health center and there are delays of a week, of ten days, of three weeks, to be treated? What will this population do if it's not to go to emergency services? [[Applause]] Because somewhere they'll have to go. And this is a reality that, if you didn't have your eyes closed, if you wanted to see what's going on, they'd see it clearly, and then they'd put some action in motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u102	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u103	We ask you to make public the waiting lists, the real lists. Because, you know what everyone says, from the Patient Defense Association to anyone? That's a lie, that the reality is that anyone who needs a surgical intervention is closer to the year than this data you publish. At the moment nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u105	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Year after year we see how the collapses in winter in the emergency services of our hospitals show the care overload and precariousness, many times, in the media and human resources that suffer from these services, as well as the absence of proper planning for the flu peak, as, for example, has been given this year. The work of emergency services is developed in an unstandardised context, with evasums to achieve efficient coordination of services and even to find professionals who are willing to take on the said function. And that's because the medical group suffers from a sensitive and poorly organized workload and because there's a precarious provision of nursing professionals, a professional for every eight patients. And successive reorganizations of the workplace in hospitals did not count on material and human resources to efficiently assume the care burden. It is added to this question that, in view of the overload of primary care and the aging of the population, the service is much more overburdened with this type of elderly patients, which in many cases is more difficult to address. In addition, mention should also be made of the increasing difficulties in entering decompensated patients and the multiple difficulties in getting to the plant patients who have already signed the order of entry. In this context, any circumstance which increases, by the question of epidemics, the demand for assistance overburdens the service in an irremediable way. This winter 2019-2020 the emergencies — as the proponent of the Block has explained here — collapsed, and collapsed in almost all the Greek hospitals. In the HULA the IGC denounced this situation of collapse and said it became chronic and structural. It should be noted that the use of observation as a hospital unit is already customary, and that emergency boxes in many cases are already being used for observation. In the CHUS year after year we also attended the emergency collapse. Even this winter, the association of patients in this hospital reported collapsing, with patients in the corridors waiting to be cared for in wheelchairs and paddies. In this same hospital, during the collapse situation, two people died. A grave person had to be cared for in the corridor and rushed to the critical cubicle for requiring advanced resuscitation maneuvers, with the end result of death; and another, after spending two and a half hours in a corridor, presented a fatal arrhythmia, and this ultimately resulted in an infarction, which also suffered, and died. At the Montecelo Hospital in Pontevedra, staff are reporting continuous emergency collapses that occur throughout the year due to inadequate staffing, material and inadequate income management. In Ourense the CHOU staff denounces the collapse of emergencies and the lack of income beds, with sick people in the hospital corridors and colding some users — at the end of this January. In Ferrol, architect Marcide also suffered collapses in the emergencies at the beginning of January, which overflowed both those and the professionals and made beds insufficient in various services. And the same collapse also suffered in the U.S. Navy Hospital's emergencies. This emergency situation in our country is structural, it's already a feature of the entire medical system itself. Human resources are also scarce and overexploited in multiple services, so it is necessary to continue demanding a reorganization of staff squares with appropriate ratios and the convening of all vacant squares, something that is not being done. In primary care, instead of being the center of the system, because it seems to be the center of precariousness. In this case, there is no strong progress in the line proposed by the professionals and the professionals: limitation of daily patient quotas, increase of staff, job stability, adequacy of the number of cartons per professional, etc. As for waiting lists, it must also be related in many cases to privatization itself, to the use of concerted resources instead of increasing public service, to the blackmail of having to operate in private to speed up the process. For all these reasons, from En Marea we will strongly support the demonstration that is convened for February 9 in defense of public health, and we will also support this non-law proposition by the Nationalist Block Galego. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u106	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. For the Parliamentary Group of the Left Joint Group, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u107	Thank you, President. We're going to support this non-law proposal, logically, in view of the situation that comes back to the emergency services of our country. We have also taken initiatives on this issue. We do so on a regular basis because, unfortunately, this situation has been chronicled in the absence of measures to improve the situation of the public service. We have explained on other occasions that the saturation and collapses of the emergency services are motivated not only by a situation of the emergency services themselves but also by the difficulties of the cuts that have been used by the Government of the People's Party for years in which primary care is dealt with. Those difficulties, these delays and delays, those waiting lists, which were previously non-existent -- could be a delay of one day or two days and now in many centers and in a common way, can be ten days or more -- they produce that many pathologies get worse and that many people don't have another solution to the emergency services. This element has already been analyzed on other occasions to refer to the need to dimension staff paintings at both the continuing points of attention and those related to hospital emergencies. And at this point we have to say — and we also have proposals, initiatives and questions about this element because we are concerned about it — that long after the strike was lifted at the points of care continued with a series of agreements, the Health Council continues to fail to comply with neither the personnel agreements nor the agreements even on elements such as individual protection teams or the organization of its own services. There's another element we've been discussing on other occasions. And it is that the decrease in staff within the hospital units, or even the closure of units of services and beds — which we have discussed up to satiety in the Health Commission — makes it difficult to continue to flow from the incomes that are indicated from the emergency units; that is, when we have less personal than due in the hospital units or when we even have closed beds and services, it is logically difficult to transfer those people who have an income order from the emergency services. Therefore, the saturation of emergency services, in addition to peaks for respiratory diseases in the case of winter, is precisely motivated by the lack of resources in the field of human resources, both in primary care and, of course, also in hospitalization units. And at this point, we must remind them -- we have done it on many occasions -- the decline in the number of personnel and means of ownership, that is to say, of people with a square within the Galician Health Service, and the increase in the possibility, of precariousness, something that has evidently been a decision of the Health Council for over a decade. There has been, beyond the limitations of staff imposed by Rajoy's government and, of course, the Ministry of Economics, a decision, obviously, to amortize squares. We've discussed it on many occasions. And at this point — if there have been debates around this element — it is clear how that decision has produced more obvious prejudices, mainly in primary care, we have commented on it on many occasions. The depreciation of squares is producing a problem right now, because however long they try to prolong retirements from some professionals there is no chance to reverse some of the depreciations that were previously made if it's not getting more squares again and, of course, forming more specialists in some specialties. Unfortunately, they also suffered depreciations of other squares that are not medical. And it is a reality that is also evident from the budget cuts: a decrease of EUR 380 million in health investment since 2009 and a precarious situation in terms of recruitment. This situation leads to a lack of staff services, which is the basis of all the problems within the Galician Health Service. Of course, what about that request for non-structural waiting lists? I have to remember once again what I think I have been doing since 2012 — and now those of the previous legislation are no longer valid but are worth these — waiting for the requests for information to be answered in the course of article 9 regarding that information, and, as always, we continue to violate the law by the Health Council. I believe that we have — and I have already finished — an important problem to address, of course, in medium- and long-term planning; because from that point on, the situation of undermining the public health system in relation to the reduction to the minimum of health personnel in the whole system now makes the problems in some elements difficult to address and require a global conception of how the public health system should function. We are going to support the GNP.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u109	Good morning. Thank you, President. It's a repeated debate at this time of year. The truth is that this is an argument that applies in both directions. We always advocate that it is repeated because there is a wrong planning by the Council. And the People's Party always tells us that we repeat because we systematically intend to discredit and that we would repeat even if it worked well. The question is that professionals are constantly showing, year after year, that there is a problem of collapse. Collapse is the word that professionals come to use — even I want to remember some new one yesterday in Ferrol — about the situation you are living in. And this is the reality. We came here because we understand that there is a mistake in planning and that we are not learning from things that could work better or worse. Some work well, of course, when it comes to emergency care; and some do not work so well. We don't understand why there's a problem sharing, at least making contingency plans visible or accessible. Probably because contingency plans in general are, of course, well done, there's no discussion about it. But they should probably have some appreciation of the need for resources. And that's the question, that these contingency plans appeal to the need for a number of resources, materials and humans, which then the Council does not facilitate, because that's the point of the matter. There's a planning problem, yes, and there's a resource problem. And hospitals are probably doing that job of suing them. The management isn't doing the job of exacting them properly, because the management prefers to answer upwards rather than solve them downwards. And this is the problem of this system, because the Council also rewards these kinds of agencies. There are obvious cases in that system and there is no need to mention them again, because otherwise it would seem like an obsession. But the question is there, in which there is an apparent natural functioning of the system that raises demand. And when the peak of the flu comes — usually arrives in January, but this year all professionals point out that something has arrived later, but not excessively — which affects a particular type of population, which increases demand in a more or less determined volume, when this time comes, it is necessary to have a forecast that has to be modulated depending on the demand, which is predictably more necessary than in other times of the year. And you don't have it. What's that forecast? The forecast would be that a system that had functioned properly could well be allowed to reprogramming so as not to perform interventions that require hospital income to not saturate beds and allow it from emergencies to be derived more easily, more swiftly; not to have closed plants, which exist—we can resort to euphemism that no plants are closed, just as no key is passed to them, but, if there is no staff to attend, no plants, rooms and beds can be used to enter—or not to have a hypersaturated primary care system, as all professionals are required. We present an inquiry that we will discuss with the advisor tomorrow about the situation of primary care and some recommendations that professionals make. What they're saying is that this system is saturated. What happens when the primary care system is saturated? Which is the result of the CAP, that the CAPs are saturated and that, therefore, people who demand demand end up in hospital emergencies. Because the emergency problem is not urgent. We've got fantastic emergency professionals. The problem is that there's a wrong system-wide planning in them and that when there's such a serious moment as the peak of the flu -- it's worse in terms of number -- the system is so weak that it trembles. And I'm afraid he's not able to deal with a situation that, in a normal situation, in a normal setting, would be prepared. When the thing is so fragile, it's got these problems at least to show up. And so we're in that situation. We know what the People's Party's argument is to defend themselves and do nothing more than that of every year, although we meet every year with the problems of people satuating hospital centers, professionals who report that they are above the edge of what they can meet, with demands of people waiting for twenty-four, thirty-six and forty-eight hours in the expectation of the corridors. I, although it was nothing serious at any time, last week I visited an emergency center accompanying a person. And it was peculiar to see -- although it was one thing that professionals solved something better than wonderfully -- that there was a sign in the corridor that said, "Don't stop in the corridor." And people were waiting under that cartel because there was nowhere else to be. This is reality, professionals are solving how they can, but we can't let them be trench hospitals, because we have the ability — or we should have it — to have a much better system. We know the argumentation — that goes on elsewhere, that has already happened in other times... We could debate — in comparison systems — how elsewhere the resolution is much better and how at other times the resolution could also be much better. Surely in both cases it's better, but, of course, the comparison leaves this system quite bad. So, what we demand is the necessary information, the information about professionals and the attention being paid to them. Sometimes we hear here — not long ago — that of how much we need to listen to professionals, who are technical decisions. Well, emergency professionals say they need more resources and they need more personnel, which must also be technical decisions. See if they're capable of paying attention to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u110	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u111	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Let's start this year and we'll talk about emergencies. This is the January contraidus, right? Mrs. Prado referred to the Salnés Hospital, and referred to this article. What happens is that I don't know if I didn't read it well or wanted to manipulate us, because the article says, "Urgents start to get congested when they're full of hospital beds" — refer to Salnés. "The optionals ask not to go to the service if it is not strictly necessary. We cannot talk about collapse — health professionals are clear — but if we have a strong congestion. The figures speak of a dense but bearable traffic for an emergency service that is the most activity of all Galician comarcas hospitals. In any case, to alleviate the situation, this weekend there was an internist of reinforcement — in addition to being on guard — to try to speed up highs and process income more quickly. The arrival of this professional is covered by the contingency plan, a document in which there is also the opening of six additional beds in emergency." It means that professionals positively value opening these beds, but Mrs. Prado values it backwards. But, look, I am, Mrs. Prado, frankly concerned about the Third World situation that you report about the Greek hospitals, concerned about the image you want to convey. If it were real — like a war hospital — the Greeks should be terrified, absolutely terrified. But his report does not agree with the assessment of citizens themselves in the barometer, because 78.9% of the population believes that attention was either good or very good in emergencies and 27.3% believes that in emergencies there are more means than before. I, of course, Mrs. Prado, am very accustomed to your speeches, those apocalyptic speeches in relation to the Greek public health, but in your intervention to the councilman in the last full I think you have beaten all the records. To say that any small increase in affluence becomes a catastrophe seems quite excessive to us when you know as much as I do that emergency care figures vary every day and are often unpredictable. It's also curious, and it's contradictory, to ask that beds be opened, for example, in the Coruña Infant Mother in the face of increased influenza assistance, and then to say that -- cito -- "logo, on these plants, when you open them, there is a mix of pathologies that makes the optional staff have to move from one plant to another." If we opened the Materno for flu, the optional staff would have to walk from hospital to hospital, not from plant to plant. I, of course, don't know if you want emergency services to be constantly dimensionalized for timely attention or attention being paid in these months of absolute increase in demand. It would seem quite impenetrable. You could also ask that the surgeons be completely dimensioned permanently to a disaster situation, with staff and facilities without working most of the year. Do you think that makes any sense? Look, even in a disaster situation — we can remember here the sad accident of Angrois and, to a lesser degree, another catastrophe, which was the one of Marisquiño — the response of the Galician Health Service was absolutely exemplary. I believe that health education must also be valued in this case. According to the health barometer, we are the citizens who come to the emergency in the highest percentage without prior primary care, without passing through the CAP or primary care. Most professionals are critical of the inadequate use of emergency services for banal pathologies. In this same article, the emergency coordinator of the Salnés Hospital says. According to the SATSE union, ladies and gentlemen, there were eleven autonomous communities in which there were problems of saturation in the emergencies, eleven. Since eleven there are three in which the People's Party governs and eight in which the People's Party does not rule, and there is only one that is presided over by Mr Feijóo, who is Galicia — fortunately for the Greeks and the Greeks. And communities not included in this list, such as Catalonia or the Basque Country, last year were the most conflicting of all in the flu situation. I from the Bipartite wouldn't talk, Mr. Torrado, but, if you want to check the hemerotheque, there's enough hemerotheque. I've got a pack with enough hemerothec. Regarding the points of your motion, look, emergency services are dimensioned to meet any day's emergencies and they can actually suffer saturations in timely situations. Staff are renewed in different services depending on their needs, not only in emergencies, but in other services. Resources are operational and activated if necessary. You can even contemplate the increase in beds per room — for example, in the Cutter, which has individual rooms — but you don't like it. The primary care plan is developing with budgets. And in these days, every day, you'll see a new one about the squares that are being created in primary care. And I wanted to talk about the call for all the vacancies that you put on the initiative — which, of course, repeats some textually on the proposed side. You have signed, Mrs Prado — your group — an agreement with the Socialist Party in which you not only forget the VAT and what you owe Galicia, but also forget the Greek health. They limit their demand for the replenishment rate to an inconcreted and generic formula that says "To analyse formulas to progressively improve the replacement rates," when here they called for the elimination of the rate. They are wolves in Santiago and lambs in Madrid. The waiting lists are calculated exactly by the same system throughout Spain.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u112	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u113	If you want to change it, press for the Interterritorial to be called, change how to calculate these lists and, in passing, put in place the measures adopted in the last Interterritorial before the motion of censure, which had more than enough measures to try to alleviate the situation of optional deficits and which have not been touched since Mr. Pedro Sánchez's rule. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u114	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. For the motion's own group, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u115	First of all, I would like to thank the other opposition groups for their positive vote. The People's Party, Mr. Núñez Centeno, retreats by trivializing a situation that is suffering from thousands of Greeks and Greeks every day. All you have to do is open the media to see how emergency services are. It's a picture that, of course, I don't want it for myself or mine. [[Applause]] And what I don't want for myself or mine I don't want for others either. I don't want them to have to be treated continuously, systematically, in the corridors. By denying reality, reality does not disappear. The reality doesn't go away, Mr. Núñez Centeno. There are more means than before, yes, and also than before. But they're insufficient, they're still insufficient. And they still don't listen to professionals as to Angrois and O Marishinho, who said they were active and passive that the situation was solved by the immediate and voluntary action of the professionals themselves who came without anyone calling them, because there were no plans prepared for it. And they still don't listen. [[Applause]] It's just, really, it's awesome! And since this is going to become the summer song, if they want the BNG to solve all the problems, they'll leave the Government of Galicia. Let's put ourselves and there's no more, there's no more! Nose sleeves! [[Murmurs.]] So if they want a Member to do the work of the other 23. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And in addition, I remind you of a detail of no importance, and it is that the powers in health have the German Government. Your health skills have the German Government! [[Applause]] Do something! If they're adorned, then they're resigned, they're resigned. Look, what we're asking for from BNG on this initiative is to dimension emergency services, solve staff deficits, know-how contingency plans, which expands primary care so that this situation is not given. It seems pretty good that the chief of emergency in Salnez tells people to go first to their family doctor. Of course, if they had it operated, they would go, but the problem is they don't have it, just like the CAP are not. In the CAP you promised to meet their main demands. And the main demand was for complete medical and nursing equipment to be able to provide quality health care. And to this day they still fail to do so. Then they start around. Should we ask that the waiting lists be known? Well, yes, because no one believes them. You can go out on the street and ask the Greeks and the Greeks what their situation is about the waiting lists, how long they wait for a surgical intervention and how long they've been waiting since they went to their family doctor until they got into surgery, what's the average waiting time. And, of course, nothing resembles what you say. You want to make it normal for runners to be the waiting rooms where the patients are stacked, they want to become normal for people to enter anywhere, they want to become normal they are continuously saturated with emergency services, they want to make normal the continued exploitation of workers and workers. And it's not normal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u116	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u117	And, of course, at BNG we're going to bring demands like this all the time because we don't accept what's not normal. There's a high number of emergencies, there's a high number of people with pluripathologies, who need more attention and more staff. And that's not an exclusive last-minute question, but you know that this is the way it is and you don't have the services dimensioned so that that attention can be given in the right way. That's the reality. And the rest of them retire here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. G.P. motion. Mixto, at the initiative of Mr. Francisco Casal Vidal, on the policy of the Greek Government in the face of the crisis generated by the closure of the coal thermal plants
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u119	There are amendments to the Parliamentary Group of the Galego Nationalist Block and the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u120	To formulate the motion you have the word Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u121	Thank you, Mr. President. First I want to congratulate the workers and retirees of Endesa on the arbitral award that went out yesterday — I think it was yesterday — with which they recover their rights of payment in kind, in the form of electrical supply to their homes, and the open way for the approval of their new collective agreement after almost three years as a result of their decay due to labour reform — which we hope the new government will immediately derogate. Congratulations to them. Clearly, the struggle is the only way. And in view of this urgency in the districts of the Bridges and Meirama and the lack of prior planning and strategies, in Marea, it looks at success experiences that make it easier to reduce the risk of errors and reduce the deadlines to a sustainable alternative. Many of our proposals are based on realities in areas with very similar problems. Now they say in the German Government that we don't have time to adapt. Of course not! We don't have it because, since the mines that fed the power stations were closed, nothing has been done — eleven or twelve years in each case without doing anything. A development model is needed to improve the above, which is more sustainable, more participatory, more ecological and more rational. These were the axes of the cited experiences on which this motion is based. Participated decision-making was the usual tone, this is the most relevant aspect. It has gone from a continuing complaining attitude to the situation of economic and social depression, caused by the closure of mining and power plants, to a proactive attitude. No one can ever put forward proposals with minimal discretion based on the survival of the coal plant — as we will hear from the People's Party tomorrow. The station won't work again. We don't waste time. That's not just a political or business decision, it's a commitment to our children and grandchildren, it's being with the future and not the past. We must take decisive action against climate change. The power plant is no longer in a position to keep working — in addition, this is very good — and you have to look for alternatives right away, which can be taken if you want. The problem is this, the lack of initiative and foresight of the Government of the State, the Government of the State over the last ten years, of several governments and also of this government. I hope they don't plan on going that way, looking back. In Marea I've been saying for three years, especially because there are alternatives, and alternatives not only more sustainable but more realistic and with a much more prosperous possible future, as evidenced by the regions mentioned above. We don't spend money in the past, we bet on the inevitable future. The Bridges and Cerceda-Meirama had to be the reference beacons tractors of that new hill green of Galicia, and they would have to be the point of launching all those projects. We'll be late, but there's still time to do it if it starts. And above all, there are important European budgets and predictably also state budgets to achieve this. There are, of course, solutions. Mrs. Egerique had asked us for proposals before. Well, there's a lot of proposals going on. Let's hope it doesn't apply here only the second order of the People's Party's industrial policy in Galicia: looking for a culprit. It is true that in this matter the Government of the State is also responsible, and it is the first to be involved in providing financial solutions as well — as they are still in the current budgets — but industrial policy is the competence of the Council of Galicia, which leads us to ask them not to apply their first mandate as well: to be a spectator. As I said, we propose that they be proactive. I hope we're talking today about concrete measures, not trying to make vows. The first proposals go on the line to immediately implement the sustainable map of the transition to the Comarcas of Cerceda and As Pontes. As he commented earlier, a couple of full-length environmental advisors, he was already developing a sustainable transition map of Galicia, as In Marea has been asking for for more than three years. Let's hope it's true. But now we have to move on to the concrete application of these districts in order to access the European Union's aid aid aid in January 2021, which will be provided with more than 100 billion euros. We must also urge the Economic and Employment Council to set up these working groups immediately. They're not claiming the Ministry of Industry to do so. You have to do it, but if you want to put it in motion, get it started now, call the social, environmental and business groups of the Bridges and Meirama. Let's get this news started, let's hope that the Ministry will be immediately incorporated. I'm sure they would. We must also urge the Ministry of Industry and Tourism, as well as the Ministry of Ecological Transition, to implement all the measures already in force in the budgets now, those of 2018, which have measures for both new financial contributions to closed mining areas and also for the recovery of Miner funds that were carried out by the Government of the People's Party in 2012. It is tens of millions of euros for The Bridges and Meirama that were not executed and that, according to current budgets, could be implemented. We must also urge Endesa and Naturgy to put on the batteries, to present their plans for the future. In Aragon Endesa has already done so with central Andorra. Why not Galicia? Why don't the Government of Galicia ask you to present your alternative as well? I know it's more profitable to vote only to blame the government of the state, and we have to do it too, but Endesa and Naturgy have a huge responsibility and they have to do it. It is not reasonable that for nine months now the Andorran area, in Teruel, has already had a plan by Endesa and Galicia, having a much more important central, if you don't have that plan. The Government of Galician Union must demand that it be presented immediately. Then we have to urge all the projects that are developing to go along the line of the ecological transition: energy efficiency, renewable energy, recycling techniques, waste disposal, etc. And at this time economic agents are not primarily looking for industrial parks — moreover, in the area there are already more industrial parks, many of them half empty, like the Somozas. What they're looking for is very well-trained workers, and so there should be initiatives by the Galician Council to train new workers in these new technologies. And they also look for state-of-the-art digital and broadband infrastructures that allow the implementation of 4.0 factories. That's why we hope that the Galician Union will promote the first 5G facilities to be developed in the Pontes and Cerceda areas. We're hoping they'll start negotiating with the telephone operators to make this happen. I assure you that would be more important than having industrial ships. This is what companies want to develop Industry 4.0, which inevitably needs 5G. For this too, of course, we need to develop training cycles in this type of activity. They're not developing. Why doesn't the Galician Union develop them immediately? We also need to promote and encourage non-movable local activities that take advantage of indigenous resources, and that's all in the line of not returning to industrial monoculture. We must also take advantage of and recognize the landscape as a fundamental element for the well-being of people and economic activity and thus develop initiatives with the financial support of Endesa and Naturgy so that the trash can become cultural elements of leisure and sustainable tourism, creating eco-parks - which have already developed in many regions of Great Britain, France, Germany and the Netherlands - which would immediately become a hub for creating jobs linked to nature and tourism. I recommend that you visit, for example, the debris at the Bridges and see that immediate initiatives could be put in place. I know you'll have trouble at all. "It's only Peter Sánchez's fault," that's gonna be the only speech. See if they comment on any of these initiatives and see if they comment on why they're not viable. The creation of the Centre for Resource for Sustainable Development in Galicia, with the participation of the State, and the creation of an eco-enterprise centre that helps to install in the area renewable energy companies would attract many companies to these areas, as has already happened in the European regions I mentioned. We propose to develop a pilot plan for energy reform of housing. This could be put into effect immediately if there were funds from the Galician Union, co-financed by the families themselves, and I would give work to the auxiliary companies of the Bridges and Meirama immediately. Tell them to see why there can't be those funds available from the Galician Board to put this into effect immediately. Because the solution is not to generate more renewable energy to replace carbon energy, no, the solution is to consume much less energy, and hence energy efficiency is fundamental. We also propose the creation of an R & D+i centre for the development of new materials that use as raw material recycled elements and the development of new recycling processes. I don't have time, there are many more initiatives, to see if they can at least justifiably criticize or support some of them. And finally, one of the most important is to develop a whole series of ecological tax matters that help finance all these initiatives, in addition to the European funds, state funds and funds that the Galician Union should have planned...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u122	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u123	...and that they don't appear in the budgets...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u124	Thank you, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u125	...of 2020 nowhere. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u126	Thank you. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u127	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all of you. We do not share the triumphalism of the award because there are acquired rights to recover and the struggle continues. And the bridge workers think they don't share it either, because this Thursday there's a concentration announced precisely by this subject. [[Applause]] Meirama produced episodes of tenaz struggle in its beginning. We've never seen such a time of late but full frankism in the uses and forms: black cloths, toquills and umbrellas making face-to-face with the Civil Guard. "Gentlemen of service" said the song to mock the post-Francist censorship, or fully franchisored, for many years. And Manuel Maria wrote, "Capitalist rapists who don't leave a torron, they sow all of garbage, dirt and pollution." He wrote and others sang with traditional melodies nothings in the mouths of the umbrellas. And we all knew what was going on. Under the disguise of progress, there was hidden the theft that would produce the many dividends that the people would not benefit from. And now, fifty or sixty years later, here we are again giving face and fighting for a fair burial, because coal is over and well, but, once again, in hiding, they commit abuse; once again, they act against people. Now they close without notice, now they close because they've lost interest, now they close because they're in other business and they've become climate defenders, so suddenly, they close after they pay billions of euros that they didn't revert to who was the owner of resources, land, the strength of work and the illusion of living with dignity. And by the way, a government that privatized and gifted, which shook that hen with golden eggs and left the hen empty as if the fox had entered, such as that. We follow them in the struggle because we will not consent to this burial, not so, not this wrong way. Because first both Endesa and Naturgy will have to pay the debt they have with Cerceda and the Bridges, they will have to scratch their pockets and put the money needed to keep economic life in the affected neighborhoods. And you, those who play the pim, pam, tedious and insolidary pum, will have to sit at the negotiating table and stop the feet of those who want to leave without paying. The first ones at the table, therefore, are guilty - you - of a crime of abandonment of responsibility, of turning your back on the people. They must promote the urgent creation of the local bridge and Cerceda tables for a fair energy transition, and act as a governing body where the various public and private administrations and trade union organizations with representation in the territory are represented in order to start working in concrete ways on possible alternatives to the current situation that can alleviate and shed light on the serious conditions that the current situation is causing in employment, depending on the electricity generation in the territory. This is our replacement amendment to points 3, 4 and 5 of this motion. And they must also repair the wrong done by the amnesia of coal. You know, for PP and PSOE Galicia didn't produce coal, Galicia didn't have lignite, Galicia didn't count. Now if you'll tell. BNG says it has to count and it will count. And it's up to PP and PSOE to move right after such impatience and defend Galicia's equality through all possible means in the vergent and future funds that are empowered to overcome coal. Here's the addition amendment in point 6. We have to walk, which is hours, and this country doesn't stop silences, no betrayals. The Bridges and Cerceda claim only one portion of what belongs to them. "When the people ask for their voice with courage and courage, they send him, to be content, gentlemen to serve." You won't try the devil to send them back to the Civil Guard, will you?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u128	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u129	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Casal, with all due respect, today brings us here a motion that looks more like the election program. But, out of the question, we socialists really believe that this motion has important issues that would deserve an individual and detailed debate to adopt certain agreements. We also believe that we cannot decide from Parliament alone what is the best strategy to recover the areas affected by the closure of the thermal power stations without taking into account the main actors. We believe that the municipalities concerned, the Council of Galicia, the Government of Spain, trade unions, universities and representatives of civil life should participate. We socialists also want to make it clear that not only is there a municipality and a region affected by the closure of the thermal power plant in Galicia. As you well know, in Galicia we have the closure this year of the thermal power plant of Naturgy, in Cerceda, and the closure of the thermal power plant of Endesa, in the bridges, later; so the solutions we ask - and, in this sense, goes essentially the amendment that we present to this motion - must be agreed for both areas. The Greek Government has an obligation to seek agreements for both areas, which lose a fundamental resource for its economy and families, and which will be affected if they do not acquire an exit for the workers and workers of the two thermal plants who are at risk for their jobs. We have all political parties - and I suppose it is - that we agree that a fair energy transition must be planned; that is to say, take account of decarbonisation, but of the necessary economic recovery of the areas, which lose an important economic resource. In addition, they are found with macro-infrastructures and with a series of land that must have a conversion that benefits the territory where natural resources have been exploited, which are all of them, and with a necessary economic planning that will allow a future for these regions. I mean, they must be treated as an opportunity for future economic development. Planning should be made from the same moment when it was known that the future of this type of facility was not indefinite; a situation that could not be unknown by the Galician Union, since it is the two most polluting plants, and a planning in which both Naturgy and Endesa have an obligation to participate — Mr. President, speak louder or quieter? — to reduce the impacts derived from the exploitation of our resources, which are also resources of all those who have produced high economic benefits throughout all these years. [[Murmurs.]] A plan that had to go beyond the photos, when there are grandloquent announcements that the People's Party's Government has accustomed to us, but which I am not able to force these grandloquent announcements to comply with. A plan that was obliged to have made the Galician Union since the same time that the Galician Strategic Plan 2015-2020 was approved, which in challenge 7 says: "...reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 35% over 2005." A plan that, I insist -- I repeat it again and I will not tire of saying it -- is exclusive competence of the Galician Union. The Galician Union, while speaking of a fair energy transition, has also approved the budgets for 2020, which in a full industrial crisis resulting from decarbonisation, reduce the resources needed to help the energy transition and support the regions affected by the industrial crisis, which renounce their commitment to economic modernization and industrial employment. [[Applause]] In short, it is a government that lacks its own energy model to cope with the industrial crisis caused by the decarbonisation that led companies to announce the early closure of the Meirama and Pontes power stations. That is why we are presenting a replacement amendment which we hope the Joint Group will take into account, on which we are asking: to promote an industrial transition plan in Galicia within the framework of a fair energy transition, with the participation of the Galician Council, the Councils of Cerceda-As Pontes and the trade union centres, seeking viable alternatives to areas especially affected by business closure processes. This plan must be incorporated into the Strategic Plan 2021-2025 and will be submitted to the Galician Parliament to seek a broad parliamentary agreement.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u130	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u131	Since I don't have time and since all are acquaintances, I hope Mr. Casal will take account of our amendment. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. For the Joint Left Group, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u133	Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo said we all wanted a fair energy transition. Well, as I know, we all want since Endesa said we had no other left, because, before that, no one here defended an energy transition or any kind of closure of the thermals, which I know. The transition was a transition forced on the company's interests, and that means a lot, it means that political decisions were left in the hands of a private company the future of the Bridges, the future of Cerceda and the future of its surroundings, by political decisions that left Endesa in her hands. And those political decisions begin with a shameful privatization from which the closure of the thermal power plant was a decision of a private company for which it had to be prepared. We said it many years ago, we had to be ready. The duty of a responsible government that looks at the general interest is to have prepared a closing scenario for the thermal power plants that produced 40% of the greenhouse gas emissions. I had to know. The opposite, what he did and does to the Galician Union is a huge irresponsibility and an act based on lies; they know they're lies but they don't care. And irresponsibility is enormous for not exercising its role as a government and using the current situation of anguish of many people in the Bridges to make cheap electoralism. You can criticize the Spanish Government's actions, just as we will, but you do your duties as a German government in the Statute of Self-Government, yes. The Autonomy Statute says that Galicia has absolute powers over economic planning. You tell me what you did to prevent us from being in this situation, to have a plan, to have a few lines of action, so that in the event of closing the thermals there were alternatives to people and that transition was fair. They haven't done anything yet. There's nothing to invent. In the Spanish state itself, there are autonomous governments that have moved, like the Asturias Government. The Asturias Government has signed up to 60 conventions for a fair transition with the Ministry of Energy Transition. Also the Balearic Government, the Government of Aragon. In Euskadi he closed the last thermal in 2014 at the initiative of the Basque Government and there was no drama, on the contrary. It was a surpassing an obsolete model that creates many impacts and creates little employment and little wealth. They are industries determined by interests other than Galicia and which do not generate economic contours around them. It's irresponsible. And you deceive people, give them false expectations. The expectation is to create policies for the future that guarantee work to the workers of the plant, the auxiliaries, and the transporters. Because you brought here proposals, gentlemen of the People's Party and ladies of the People's Party, to fill the pockets of millions to Endesa without labor guarantees for the workers. They didn't care about the workers being fired, they didn't care about the continuing deterioration of the working conditions of the workers of Endesa and they don't care about the situation of the carriers, who are currently stopped, for a year, without charge of a single euro and before you as a German government put no solution on the table, not one. And that's pretty much less than they were willing to give the Endesa of our taxes. Why are there no solutions for lorries? why don't they put solutions on the table for soft loans or for shortages so they don't have to be paying the letters of a loan every month for investments in the demands of Endesa, telling them that they would have work for a long time? And everything based on lies. Mr. Tellado has come here and always said the same lie. He pretends that the same lie, repeating it, becomes true. It's a lie that the closure decision is a decision by the Government of the Spanish State, lying! Absolutely. [[Mr. Trenor López utters words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Trenor is a wise man, coming from La Coruña, who taught me right now. The councilman in exile is going to teach me... [[Applause]] The company has communicated — don't get colored —...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u134	Quiet, please! Shut up! We still have a lot left and we're going very bad for a while. There's still a lot left...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u135	He said he didn't know. I don't know anything, like almost everyone we're here. Now, I read Endesa's statement when she said the reasons for her closure. The reasons for their closure were quite predictable: the rise in the payment of CO2 emissions and the rise in the price of coal, which accounts for over 140 million euros...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u136	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u137	The Government of the State, if you commit negligence, is the same negligence that you commit: not to have planned this scenario and not to put solutions on the table for workers and workers. And that's what we demand from the Spanish Government, the same thing that we demand from you: that they stop working for Endesa and actually do work to solve the situation of many people, who are distressed, and there is no right to be distressed by their neglect and because you have worked.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u138	Thank you, your time is up. Your time is up. If not, we'll still be back at 3:30 p.m. But look at the hour, please, one minute and forty. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u139	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Sánchez, check your tone because for a moment you reminded us of a hybrid between Mr. Beiras and Mr. Abalos, for the tone you just used. [[Applause]] I appreciate the clarity with which Mr. Casal spoke, because the truth is that they are no longer hidden, they no longer have any kind of complex. Look, you've been coming to this Parliament's office for years to ask for the closure of companies. They asked for the closure of Ence, they asked for the closure of Reganosa, the electrointensives, now the thermal power stations... so you have what you got. They got what they wanted, and that's all. You accept the company's decision to close, as soon as the Government of Spain urges you to close the way to taxation. That's the reality. Mr. Sánchez accuses us of not being prepared in 2020 of what had to happen in the year 2040 or 2030. That's reality, that's what we're accused of. Look, the truth is, it's really nice to come to this gallery and let's all take off the mask. You know why? Because we are still the ones who defend the interests of Galicia and the Greeks, and you defend what they already are, the Government of Spain. You are the partners that allow Mr. Sánchez to rule in Spain and take forward all his plans for our country and our community. Mr. Casal, you represent a group that is heir to AGE, or, well, you were, you are, I know. Here are AGE's heirs, and that was the group that first proposed in this House the closure of the bridge thermal power plant. You've achieved this, you're as responsible, as responsible as the Socialist Party's lords, no less. And you come here today with a more Macgyber initiative, because you have a solution for everything. The truth is, when you had management skills, you didn't show so much. It is true that a member of the Mareas will now leave as an adviser to Madrid. Well, you could go as an advisor to the advisor, which is very fashionable in this country's progressive left. The truth is, you have a solution for everything and a solution for nothing. Do you know what you're doing here? Sharing blame and addressing this as if it were an industrial problem to try to touch some of the responsibility of the Galician Union. But you know what's going on? That this is not an industrial problem, this is an energy problem, with exclusive powers of the Government of Spain. You come here to make a palanganero and try to wash away the shame of the Socialist Party, as useful accomplices of a policy that destroys hundreds and thousands of jobs. And we're here to curb that government policy. Look, we're in this situation because we have an intransient minister from the Ecological Transition, Mrs. Teresa Ribera, who put a real coat of mail on the table. He tried it with the electrointensives, but there they are in the loose rope, he also tried it with the thermal power stations. And Allah is All-forgiving, All-forgiving, All-forgiving, All-forgiving. But we're not the only ones we criticize. I suppose for this bench Jordi Sevilla must already be a fascist, right?, who is against the government of progress because he has denounced the intransigent strategy of the minister of Ecological Transition. We regret that you align where you align. During the last fifty years the thermal power plant of the Bridges was a source of wealth and employment for all the districts of Ferrolterra, Eume and Ortegal; Galicia's second highest per capita income and Galicia's highest average pension, and all of this thanks to a thermal power plant that has generated jobs, high-quality employment, and wealth. The Socialist Government of Pedro Sánchez has decided to put an end to everything to the medal of ecology, that's the reality. What are we, the greenest in Europe or are we the dumbest in Europe? We will close the thermal power stations ten years before the rest of Europe. What are we, the greenest, the greenest or the dumbest? We're the dumbest, that's reality. Look, Galicia is already green. We are in favour of the progressive decarbonization of our economy - progressive, progressive, of course yes -. We are in favour of an orderly and fair ecological transition, but we have to tell you that Galicia is already green, Galicia already doubles by 2020 the renewable energy rate Europe marked by 2030. We're already a green community. 63% of Galician electricity comes from green energy. Galicia is already green. The socialist government that you support has been committed to endesa closing its power station in the bridges, despite an investment of EUR 217 million to ensure the reduction of polluting emissions and comply with European directives. Galicia is already green, and the bridge power station meets the regulations that would allow it to prolong its life until the year 2040. We didn't even ask for that. We ask for a fair transition, but the PSOE denies it and you are the necessary accomplices. You come here asking for four tables of work and asking for subsidies, blah blah, blah...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u140	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u141	Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo expressed it perfectly: conversion. That, in the district of Ferrolterra, we know exactly what it is; it is unemployment and poverty for all. Stop making useful nonsense for the Socialist Party. You're here defending the socialist government, and we're here defending employment in the district of Pontes. You're defending the indefensible here, and we're defending a fair transition. We're asking for the immediate reopening of the power station, and you're asking for patches for the job to be destroyed and the Socialist Party to wash your face. I am sure that so much aggravating Galicia we believe that it hides Ferraz's little confidence in the electoral possibilities of the Socialist Party and Gonzalo Caballero. And what do you do? You applaud. PSdEG-PSOE has decided to betray Galicia and the interests of Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u142	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Time's up. It's exactly the same as you were, exactly the same. We're all going to do it by the hour. For the motion's own group, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u143	Well, as I expected, there's nothing to do. Not a single proposal, just insults, political disqualifications and even -- that they always do when they don't have any argument -- insults ad man, to whom I will answer, too. Well, if not, find him in the dictionary. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] On Google he explains what ad man is. No, as I asked! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yeah, a little bit. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Since the People's Party brought nothing, not a single solution, not a single proposal... before Mrs. Egerique said they wanted proposals. They have proposals there, and they haven't criticized a single one in a concrete way. Not one! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u144	Please, let's take it easy, eh!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u145	With regard to the amendment of the BNG, we would accept it, but they focus only on the Government of the State and we believe that the Government of the State and the Government of the United States of Galicia must be required. All success experiences throughout Europe have also been much more participatory, not only by governments and trade unions, but also by associations, social movements and ecological movements. If we complement this, we will accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u146	Don't you accept it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u147	Yes, yes, I accept it, but with changes I hope to deal with them now. Then those of the Socialist Party are too generic. We would accept the first three points as an addition not as a replacement, and number 4 is already included in our proposal. If you wanted to leave it as an addition, we would accept it, but it is already fully included in our proposal. What we do not accept would be the fifth, to re-elaborate another table to replace the funds that are already approved, which were approved in the Miner funds. It is in the budgets currently in force, which can be returned. What we are asking — as we have asked in our initiative — is that it is now resituating itself, not to set up a table to discuss the matter. And now I'm going to answer to Mr. Tellado about the insult ad gommem. You doubted, he said, "Why do you propose things if you don't have any management skills, as is demonstrated in your trajectory?" I hope your trajectory is comparable to mine. Look, I finished my senior engineering career at ICAI, which is the most prestigious engineering school in Spain and the most prestigious in Europe...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u148	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u149	...at the age of 21. Do you know how many people finished their career at the age of 21? [[Murmurs.]] Seven! In 50 years! Then, indeed, I entered the Fenosa Union. At the age of 26, I was the first director of a department. And then I set up an audiovisual company that for thirty years -- which is an audiovisual industry in Galicia -- produced 50 films in Galicia. Do you know how many producers in Europe have produced 50 films? They're talking to one's fingers! [[Murmurs.]] In fact, the matter ended badly, yes, in the crisis. And one day I'll talk about how it ended badly and what participation Igape had in ending badly. And you can ask him. [[Protests.]] You know who, too? You may ask the Lords of Caixa Galicia, who were partners, and the descendants of Rosalía Mera, who were also partners, who was the real responsible for the completion of this company. [[Murmurs.]] Ten thousand jobs I created. I signed 10,000 employment contracts! I don't know how many of you would sign in your broad personal trajectory...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u150	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u151	...professional...,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u152	Thank you, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u153	...and I don't know if in politics.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u154	Thank you, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u155	Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence! Well, let's vote. [[Murmurs.]] Please. After the debate on these motions, we voted. Close the doors, please. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u156	We begin by voting on the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Ms Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo. Did you accept the amendment from the Joint Group, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo? Did you accept it? It's just that I wasn't in the debate. [[Assentment.]] Accepted! [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Okay, perfect. Then we voted for it. You have accepted the amendment of the Joint Parliamentary Group. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yeah? Do you accept...? [[Murmurs.]] We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the situation of the naval sector. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u157	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Ms. Maria Montserrat Prado Cores. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, on the policy of the Government of Galicia in connection with emergency hospital services. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u158	Finally, we voted for the Joint Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mr Francisco Casal Vidal. There are some proposals he has already explained. We vote for it in accordance with those proposals, if you accept it. He made a few compromise proposals, in particular on several numbers; you paid attention to those proposals. Well, then, we vote. [[Murmurs.]] Oh, well, then, let's see. Of course! I already said! [[Murmurs.]] The lion's proposals from here. In his speech he spoke... - yes, yes, he said - that he accepted the part... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] At that he was left to do a negotiation, but he didn't ask me here for a while... but do you need time? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] So what do you want me to do? We voted second he explained. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We voted on the original proposal and the question was over. Yeah, come on, let's vote. We don't waste any more time. We voted on the initial proposal. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. Joint Left Group, at the initiative of Mr. Francisco Casal Vidal, on the policy of the Government of Greece in the face of the crisis generated by the closure of the coal thermal power plants. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; votes against, 39; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u159	The votes were finished. Open the doors. We'll be back at 4:30.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u160	We resumed the session. Mr. Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice, on his own request, to report on the Welsh Agenda before the Central Government for its realization and execution
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u161	To make this statement, the Vice-President and President-in-Office of the Council, Public Administrations and Justice, Mr Alfonso Rueda Valenzuela, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u162	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I compare today in this chamber, on my own request, on behalf of the Government, to pose and, of course, also to debate the demands that the Council of Galicia and I hope we can also say that this parliament is defending and, of course, we will continue to defend before the Government of the newly constituted State, demands that are fair and that, of course, the Government of the United States of Galicia considers that Galicia in most of its — I would say all — also urgently needs. I'll go into them for the kid. This is the object of this appearance, but I want to announce from now on, because of the special importance they have and because it gives meaning to the whole set of complaints, which at least in these coming months, in the immediate time, the Galician Union will have two main priorities. The first, without any doubt, is the payment of the money owed to Galicia, money that is holding the Government of the State and that, of course, we cannot stop claiming under any concept; 370 million euros that are ours, that are from Galicia, that are not paying us, and therefore that will be one of the main claims, without any doubt, until that money is transferred to who really is its owner, who are the Greeks and the Greeks. And the second, the second main claim, will be the transfer of the ownership of the AP-9 motorway. From there, of course, there are many more, also very important, but, on an immediate priority, these, of course, are of the utmost importance, for the reasons that I shall now begin to explain. I assure you of that, too: Galicia is going to come to this dialogue, this negotiation, these conversations so that we can reach agreements, such as what we have always been, an autonomous community loyal to the state, an autonomous community fulfilling as well as what else, and therefore we expect from the State the reciprocity and behavior corresponding to what we have seen. And, of course, these claims lie, they must be placed — it cannot be otherwise, we do not understand it in any other way — within the framework established by the Spanish Constitution, within the framework which establishes our Statute and therefore within the framework in which we can and have all the right and all the need to claim what is ours. In the end, we're trying to achieve what Galicia deserves within a constitutional state of autonomy, no less. We do not intend, ladies and gentlemen, to be more than anyone but, of course, we will not comply with the fact that if we are denied our rights and that is why we are less than anyone who also has rights. This is a statement that might seem a bit of a parrot, a little unnecessary, but, of course, what we are looking at right now, in which it should be a democratic state, unfortunately, it is fully necessary to do so in the current context. Here we have to know at the end, and it must be clear whether the interlocutor we have in front of us -- we understand myself in the right direction -- at least in principle, which is the central government chaired by Mr Sánchez, is or is not autonomous and impartial, too, and therefore just when we make decisions that matter to us very much. It is clear that to be invested he had to accept many commitments, many mortgages, in the view of the Government, and will therefore have to meet or meet many demands. Well, we hope that the Central Government will make it clear, that the President of the Government will make it clear and, of course, that this parliament will make it clear. Moreover, we are waiting for the support of this parliament so that all these concessions to be made to others may in no way be the cost of Galicia. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that there is an agreement signed with a parliamentary-representative party in this parliament, an agreement with the Galego Nationalist Block, but it must be seen from now on that it was real, that it had to be concrete and that it had to smoke to sign an agreement quickly to get an investment, all this agreement that, of course, the Galician Nationalist Block exposed and of what it has offended — if allowed, and now we will see in my appearance why I say this — profusely. In our opinion, it forgets very relevant, fundamental aspects. There's a loud silence on subjects that really matter to Galicia. In other areas there are proposals or concessions, or there are conformisms that go much less there, which remain much shorter, even with regard to agreements that have been reached in this Parliament itself. So this is what makes the deal, from now on we have to start developing it, and also reminding them of one thing: that those who negotiate and those who enter into agreements are not the political parties, they are the governments. So there's the Central Government and the Government of Galicia and, therefore, the Government of Galicia, if it's called by the Central Government -- and there are a number of deadlines reached in this agreement -- it will be with the utmost loyalty and firmness. Negotiations — I say — are among governments. Between governments we are not allowed — hence we are not going to allow — levels of vagueness, levels of incretion, and of course we will demand everything that we believe corresponds to Galicia regardless of what this agreement puts. And for that, you have to have a clear and concrete agenda. That's what I came here to expose. We have an immediate agenda of urgent, concrete needs, of course all very necessary, and those we believe the central government should meet and care for them as quickly as possible. We call it the Galician Agenda. It's twenty-five very specific points, headed, as I said before, by two fundamentals: first, to pay us what is due us, to pay us what is ours, and to start with the entire transfer process, with all that it implies, of the AP-9 motorway. And also, apart from -- I'll also talk about it -- there are a number of transfers that have been requested for some time, from our arrival to the government and also from before, and so we don't forget them or much less, we take them into account and we also want them to be discussed about all those transfers. I will therefore begin with the intention to be absolutely concrete and that it is clear that Galicia will claim with those priorities set out in the Galician Agenda. As I said, it is twenty-five matters, urgent and priority, twenty-five matters in addition to those that were approved by the Council of the United States before the last general elections, so without any certainty or record of who was going to be in charge of the government of Spain, with whom they had to be negotiated at last; therefore, those are Galicia's demands regardless of who had to negotiate them, it was the Government who had left the general elections of November of the political colour that had been. He's already begun to advance in his realization. The President of the Board has made public, has been addressed to all ministers and ministers of the new Government. These twenty-five demands were raised in function of the different sectors in which the new Government was structured, twenty-two ministries, and therefore we tried to make the first-degree effort, first-neighbourly, which we know is not going to be sufficient, and therefore we will continue to work -- I will also try to say how -- but we have already begun on our part all that process. So I want to divide this appearance into these two parts: first, the Galician Agenda, those twenty-five urgent commitments, and then talk about the transfer claim block. Within the Galician Agenda I would like to establish a first and fundamental line that I came to tell you, as far as funding is concerned, the fair, or less, financing corresponding to Galicia. And from the very head of that funding, not only but also the head of the most urgent, of the most obvious, and because we cannot tolerate in any case any political scam and no economic scam — and that is that if we are now denying what was ours — we must demand and continue to demand and make the force that is necessary; all autonomous communities are already claiming it. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all perfectly aware of this, regardless of the political color, that money that corresponds to Galicia and that the state is holding, without being able, in addition, to say that it is being used. Today it was said after the Council of Ministers that that money never really existed. The coat of hair reaches that point. It turns out they were from Galicia, they didn't come to us, but it turns out they're now telling us, probably not to explain what they spent on, that those money never existed. I think there's a time when we're going to have to say "suffix" and we're going to have to say that we have to get them in and we have to get them urgently. To make some memory, history, that you all know. They told us everything about this debt. They told us first that we couldn't afford it, because the budget had to be approved; then it was no longer to approve the budget, the problem was that the Government was in office; then they put the state's lawyer through; then there was no problem. By the way, Junta first made a legal report that believed it was possible, as it was later demonstrated, and even sent a draft bill of decree, if the path was that, so that the transfer could be made; we had no answer. In the end, it was said that we were going to enter, we ended the year with a partial income and we started this new year with the Government, not in functions, but a fully operational government, that that was the big problem they told us, and that that money would actually have to have claimed them last year -- it wouldn't be because they weren't claimed in every way possible -- and they couldn't afford it anymore. The hairstyle, the political scam and the economic scam that the Central Government wants us cannot tolerate it, and I believe that everyone fully understands it. And you understand it all around the world, not only the Government of Galician Union, not only most of the Greeks and Greeks, but also -- and I think that this is a horrendous evidence -- the rest of the autonomous communities that didn't receive that money, money, too, from the citizens of each of the autonomous communities, and who are claiming them with all their right. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is very difficult to understand that in that PSOE-BNG covenant to which I had previously referred, one word of this money is not said. There's only one interview in Mr. Rego's media, which says he doesn't appear in that pact because there's no record that he doesn't want to pay. That says so, indeed. [[Murmurs.]] That's why I'd tell the BNG lords to read the paper a little more and hear what people say. There was constancy of surplus, and saying that is to justify the unjustifiable. [[Applause]] And, of course, it is even more incomprehensible what the Socialist Party has said, what Mr. Gonzalo Caballero said — now absent — that he has already passed the page and tells us that for the non-compliance of this financing system, we have to go to the financing system that is still to be designed, we don't know what he says and therefore, it is still to be fulfilled. That's it: let's forget. Always defending the indefensible, always trying to cover things that can't be covered up and always entering into contradiction with other Socialist Party comrades in other far more courageous autonomous communities and probably much more practical, which are saying absolutely the opposite. I think it's very difficult to be a candidate in Galicia if you don't defend Galicia, and that's the first conclusion you get from these positions. [[Applause]] But there are more loud silences in this covenant. We need a new model of self-financing. How many months have we gone without the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council meeting? They are demanding all autonomous communities, it is necessary. There's a lot of postures and some of them obviously aren't interested in Galicia, and it seems that if they want to impose, seeing some of Mr. Sánchez's attitudes. We need a new financing model that takes into account dispersal, aging, the cost of providing services, which does not simply go to population numbers. All of this has to start talking about. Nothing is spoken of in that Galician PSOE-Nationalist Block. And we want to talk to the central government as well as before that new financing model. We have to start talking about it, we have to start realising it, and we have to start taking positions in front of others who are interested in things that are at all of Galicia's interests. Another very difficult silence to understand in that pact: the national strategy against the demographic challenge. It's a problem, we all agree, absolutely all agree, no matter how much I thank Mr Bará, I suppose because he has no kind of solution in which it is absolutely necessary. It's so funny to him that he's not even named in that pact. For you, when you talk to the Socialist Party, when you say that they achieve a historic pact, this deserves no mention at all. Well, I'm telling you one thing, Mr Bará, ladies and gentlemen of the Galician Nationalist Block, gentlemen of the Socialist Party: it's an urgent problem, and it's an urgent problem for Galicia, and since then the Galician Union will put it before the Central Government for a lot of laughter that you give, Mrs Bará, for a lot of laughter that you give. [[Applause]] And we'll also consider something very important, because, in addition, we're at the moment of considering it, it's urgent. We are playing a lot right now with European funding, and we are at the end of defining the new economic period in Europe. I remember in 2012 that we sought an alliance with the Central Government and with this we managed to change a situation that was certainly disastrous for Galicia, which was to lose a very important part of the funds; we sought different allies in Europe, different regions that were in the same situation and we talked to our Government at that time the Government of Mariano Rajoy, so that he would realize that Galicia needed those funds, as we need them now. Now we're given again or at least we're going to hear news that's not good enough: decreases around 15% in the CAP funds, 25% in the Rural Development Fund, 10% in cohesion policy, and what they tell us -- I've even been in Brussels two months or so -- what's enough, what we're getting from Europe's own representatives here in Spain is that it's time to make alliances, the time that state governments -- at the end of the word -- have the negotiations between state governments -- make it complicated, keep in touch, and we realize what we're playing at. So we need the central government, we need Mr. Sánchez's government to realize that Galicia is playing very hard, just as in 2012 we realized at that time the government that Mr. Rajoy was presiding over, and therefore not that he is giving us a hand or helping us, that he gives us what we really need and what we have a right to. We have no news of what's happening right now, we have no news of what's going to happen to Galicia, because whoever has to give is probably busy in other things, and this will be something fundamental that we will also have to pose as a very important part of the Greek Agenda and that of course does not appear in that agreement that the Block and the Socialist Party have signed. This is about funding, a fundamental part — I say — and that is where we would have to start, and of course we're going out there and we're not just going to start, but we're going to start next. There is another very important block: what it means of pending backends. And here, as I told you before, we have to start with the transfer of the AP-9 motorway, another high priority. I don't think there's any doubt, gentlemen. I hope so. Of course, the Government of Galicia and the parliamentary group that supports the Government, I believe that we have always given clear evidence, governed those who had ruled in Madrid, we always asked, not as in 2007, where the Congress Block voted against the transfer — that they don't like anything we remember — we always defended the transfer, from Galicia, to govern those who had ruled. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] So let's keep doing the same thing. There's a bill proposal now that it's under way and it's stuck, like so many fundamental things in these eighteen months of government in functions, in one way or another, that have been stuck. Let's hope it unravels now. But that's not the important thing, the important thing is what conditions you're going to make the transfer and what's going to happen in the meantime. We have a clear proposal, even until the transfer is made. Of course, the transfer, yes or yes, but, in the meantime, we have already sent a proposal to the State Infrastructure Secretariat. For what? So in order to alleviate the impact of the costs, the prejudices that are now being inflicted on the economies of professionals, on the economies of families, on the economies of the world that for one reason or another have to travel on the highway. The first is to review the application of the Royal Decree which sets the increase of the tariffs of 1 % cumulative for 20 years, to finance what is known: the extension of the motorway in Santiago on the Rande bridge. What did we propose? To be financed through the state's general budget, not the cost of the taxpayers' pocket paying the fees. And the second was the 25% bonus on the cost of the fee to those users who make the same route back and forth on the same day, which would apply on the two routes, on the one hand and on the other hand, also included weekends and also heavy vehicles. These were the two proposals that had already to be made irrespective of whether at the same time — which is also necessary — we were talking about the transfer. And we also demand other commitments that you have forgotten in that PSOE-BNG agreement. It was already reached, the motion of censure arrived, there was a change of government, and this is -- you have to say -- the release of the pay of Round it was to execute it, suddenly stopped, never again if I knew for its part, and also, of course, the conversion of AP-9 into Vigo into an urban frame. We're also going to demand them now and they're also part of the Greek agenda. I'm saying that because in the agreement that you signed or appeared, probably because you forgot, because you thought you didn't care, or because you thought that when the agreements aren't well bound, the inconcretions begin. [[Murmurs.]] Because look, how do you explain if you don't — and I think this has to be taken into account, and it would also have to be clarified in this parliament — that this agreement which seemed so firm, so concrete — and if you're actually going to read it, that's what it is — has started to be questioned since the first day? I'm going to read to them something you sure know, I don't know anymore, at least I don't know if the representatives of the Socialist Party know it. The agreement you signed says that "at least 100% of the toll bonus is guaranteed for recurrent users, twice or more times a day, at least 100%, both to individuals and professionals, during all days of the week. The cost of this bonus is borne by the State budgets and would apply from the adoption of the State's general budgets in 2020." This is what the agreement says, very clearly. Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There is little doubt about this writing. Hey, if that's the case, congratulations. All right. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's start with the congratulations. [[Applause]] Six days later, media: "During the next summer the trips back in the day by the AP-9 will begin to be free"—travels back, we've already eaten a journey—"for all users who are equipped with teleportation. At least that's what the new executive expects"—i.e., it has nothing to do with what the new executive signed with the BNG— "according to socialist sources in Congress." [[Murmurs.]] Who lies, who doesn't tell the truth? The deal or the socialist sources at Congress? But we're going further, we're going to move on in time, in time for two-three weeks. January 16th, another newspaper, statements by socialist Guillermo Meijón: "Fillow for concrete how the bonus will be applied. The implementation commitment is on the horizon of four years of legislature." We are no longer in 2020 as soon as the budget is approved, four years of legislation. [[Murmurs.]] And if you had to go further, the government deputy delegate in Pontevedra also said in an interview in a newspaper: "The freeness of AP-9 this year will depend on the budget availability." We went from everything to nothing, without the Block saying anything, at least said nothing to ask for explanations to those who signed the agreement, not a year, not two, two weeks ago. [[Murmurs.]] So this will have to clear it up. Of course everything that this agreement says is to be achieved is to say that we are happy, and they will have the support of the Council of Galicia. But in two weeks it's all gone down. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Rego also said in that interview, that he has no waste, that sometimes things can't be achieved with an agreement, but it's already an achievement to get them to study. So maybe we go from free to study; if so, explain it, and the sooner, please, the sooner. [[Murmurs.]] In any case, we'll see you soon. You put a very short deadline, in a much shorter period, they've already been denied, they're going from 100 to 0 in that acceleration, we'll see what's going on. We, of course, will go with our roadmap. [[Murmurs.]] What we send to the Infrastructure Secretariat, which applies as soon as possible, and of course also start talking about the transfer and start talking seriously. This is the second fundamental priority, we don't hide it. We never deny it, but what do you want me to tell them? With these background and these denials in just two weeks, the hopes that this is very firm are also quite few. And, of course, AP-9 is a fundamental infrastructure, and that's where we want to start. But she's not the only one. I'm telling you because in your agreement you completely forget any other infrastructure. They talk about Pontevedra firemen's knot; I'm from Pontevedra and I agree very much that it is a necessary work. But there are more works in Galicia, not just those of the cities where the Block rules, there are many more. And, therefore, the duty of the Galician Council — I hope you agree — is to demand many other road infrastructures that are just as necessary. Which one? End of the works of the highway Lugo-Santiago to the Xacobeo 2021; variant of Ourense from the rest of the bus Ourense-Lugo; new bus Vigo-The Porriño, which has been approved, by the way, Mr. Rajoy's Government—and a complicity here in this case works well the uncle-sobrian relationships—, they put it in a drawer and it turns out that this fundamental infrastructure for Vigo and its metropolitan area is completely forgotten. [[Murmurs.]] More commitments that we are going to implement, that we are going to ask that they be executed — sorry — on this Galician Agenda: the highway of the Navy, the integration of the Trecito The Art-Crowd of AG-55 into the state road network, setting up a continuous and free toll-free route to the outer port of the Crown; this is also important, too, we are going to ask for it. We will also call for measures to be put in place to ensure that the problems caused by the fog in A-8 are solved permanently; they will have to be solved at once. So this also has to keep asking, this is also important, apart from the AP-9, which is very important. More things: impulse of the variant of Ponteareas, once the central government declared that it would be an act of its competence; for then we push it and put it on and there is a commitment. More things: the impulse of Pontevedra's Circulation, seeking the highest social consensus in the layout of the following phases; of course, also fundamental, apart from the firemen's knot. More things: to collaborate with the Government of Portugal for a new international highway connection that facilitates the access of the northern population to the AVE Madrid-Galicia line, through the Gudina; this is asked by many mayors of all political colors and therefore we should also talk about this. More things: approval and impulse of a program to eliminate all the truces of production of accidents identified in the state road network; this also had to be talked about and we're going to talk about it. So all of this is not in the deal. We understand that you can't put everything in the deal, but when you put one thing on nothing else and immediately you start to be denied by the other side of the contract, you'll understand that we're worried a lot more than this or the other. So everything, and doing it, and we're going to take it as part of the agenda and as fundamental part. This is the Galician Agenda, this is the agenda that matters to everyone. And if we continue with infrastructure, we're talking about a fundamental infrastructure, fundamental for a lot of people, of course not fundamental for you, that doesn't appear. That's important too, but it must be, Mrs. Vilán, to the same level of importance that the realization of when, at last, the AVE will arrive to Galicia; it does not appear at all in the agreement that you signed, it does not appear at all at all at all. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Of course, one wonders why, and, of course, seeing what happened these two weeks too, one begins to explain why. Clearly because what they didn't want was to be evidenced, as they were evidenced by the highway. In two weeks we have heard — as before, but in these two weeks especially — about everything. We've probably heard the truth of what you intend to do about the fulfilment of the deadlines of the Central Government of AVE. Is this a key question or is it not a key question for Galicia? I ask. I guess they'll say yes. It's a key question, but it's not as key as to introduce it into that agreement that you signed. I'm saying there's absolutely no reference. By making some very recent history too, Mr. Abalos, in 2018, recently constituted the Government that came out of the motion of censure, assured that the AVE, the works of the AVE, would be finished in 2019. At that moment he had the opportunity to say what he thought was convenient, he had information — we suppose —; otherwise, he would not have come to Galicia to compromise. And he said yes, he ratified it a few months later saying that he kept it and that what he didn't like was creating false expectations; therefore, he would never say a time limit that he wasn't going to fulfill. That's what he said in early 2019. Of course, he began moving forward in 2019, we arrived at the last quarter, the works at that stage in evidence that we resorted to with him, between Benavente and Puebla of Sanabria, and he already began to say nothing, saying that he couldn't compromise the deadlines, that we've already seen, inconcrerations... the board began to say that it was actually impossible to specify the deadlines and, therefore, the first one that was to recognize him; secondly, to make a fair planning and a right planning to say when the AVE had to arrive, thinking, moreover, of the important thing that was that in 2021, Ano Xacobeo, was the AVE itself or yes. And they've already started pulling out the face permanently. You didn't have to be the representative of the European Union in Spain who said that you yourself told him that until 2022 AVE wouldn't be. Then they started making corrections, rectifications of the corrections. The Foreign Minister — I remind you of that tweet where he said that until the year 2022 he did not, and at the end Mr. Abalos — these are fashionable recently — came to tell you in that Scottish shower of which Mr. Méndez Romeo was talking about, also in a press release — the press is coming today to know the truths of what you tell! — where at the end he told them that he had told the truth, exactly the truth. And Mr. Abalos, with that statement that in 2021, and when you're told that, hey!, 2021 is the Xacobeo, when will it be?, 2021? He says: "Well, but Jacob won't last for a month, it will last twelve months; so let's give ourselves a corner of the teeth if it's at the end of the Jacob, during the year 2021. I'm saying this because this is very important. They don't care too much because it's not in the pact they signed, but we do. And so we're going to say that AVE has to have a right deadline and we have to know as soon as possible and that we can't go on. [[Applause]] As far as water and ports are concerned, there is also a lot to talk about. The State must be involved in the sanitation of the rivers and rivers of Greece and must be involved in the execution of declared hydraulic works of general interest of the State itself. The members of the board have already done so, but in the state — since they then ask us for funding — there will be a plan; this was the advisor to Madrid; therefore, this is important, which we suppose should be in the agreement that you signed. There is absolutely nothing to do with the sanitation of rivers and rivers: the execution of the dredging of the Burgo River, the contribution they have to make in order to avoid the risks of flooding, for the sanitation of the waters and supplies of the municipalities, the equal treatment of the debts of port authorities. If we're going to do it in Valencia, why don't we also do it in the port authorities of Galicia, why don't we do it in the Coruña? All this was an occasion to put it in the pact and it's not at all. Do you want me to tell them more absences of that pact that they signed and that we, of course, are going to claim? Everything that has to do with something as important and as fundamental for Galicia as the Statute for Electrointensive Consumers, which is as much as saying the future of thousands of families in Galicia. How many stories have they told us about this? How many things have they told us? As in other things, but here it affects — if allowed — especially the immediate future of many people. Look, in 2018, we were told that it would be in 2019, in 2019, we were told that it would be but advanced in 2019, then we were told that it couldn't be because we couldn't be done with a government in functions, they had a draft, but they never taught us, they didn't want to teach us. Now that there is a government in office to the Minister of Labour — by the way, one of the great promoters, according to which he said that this had to be solved as soon as possible — said that it would be immediately, almost at the first Council of Ministers. There was a meeting to talk about this, qualified as disappointing not only for the Galician Union — which, of course, was there and so considered — but also for the workers' own representatives and the company committee, who said that they had not been told anything at all. He already told them that they had no problem at all because the Council of Ministers would approve the Statute for Electrointensives at almost immediately. Well, today there's just been Council of Ministers again and nothing at all. He was specifically asked in the press round to the government that was going on with this; the silence by answer: it's not urgent, it's not important... you lose a great opportunity, which was to compromise the Government of Spain to a deadline in that agreement. [[Murmurs.]] In that agreement they speak—less bad! — that this status is necessary, but it does not compromise any time limit, no horizon. And, of course, that's how it goes, that's where the socialist government is meeting. He'll do it when he likes them, when he suits them, and that can be ready, for or never. Then they're doing it and there they've lost a great chance that this was going on. As in the case of Endesa, ladies and gentlemen. How much did they talk? What a chance they had to start committing something! We'll also take this subject to the Galician Agenda that we want to pose to the Government. You accept in that agreement that they have signed something that seems tremendous to us, that you are going ahead with plans to close Endesa without first finishing the tests that give it viability, and that they have an alternative for so many workers and for that industrial activity. They admit that it's going ahead with business plans. How easy it was to say!: until all these tests are finished the plan is paralysed. He doesn't put anything like that in the agreement you signed; we, of course, are going to demand it. Just as we're going to demand things that you didn't agree on: you have to eliminate the coal tax, you have to activate the agreement that the Government has already advanced with other autonomous communities, you have to include Galicia in the European platform of transition mining regions in order to obtain funds. All these things have to be done, we'll ask them in that schedule. You in all the agreement that they signed in all the conversations or proposed, which means it doesn't matter to you and, of course, means that the Central Government has no intention or concern at all so that it can pass on to those more than seventy families. Just as all the silence about the future of the automobile is alarming, the whole question that is in all the conversations and all the statements that are being made about the future of the diesel, which so much affects the automotive industry in Galicia. No word deserves from your agreement. In the naval you speak and wager for the civil construction of Navantia, forgetting that right now — according to the Socialist Government — there is a contract signed to build frigates that guarantees viability, but the bad thing is that it guarantees it for within two years. No respect for these two years of unemployment, no respect that it is necessary to build those frigates, which is the contract that is bound. [[Murmurs.]] Big statements probably because they accept that the future of Navantia has to be elsewhere and Galicia doesn't care. They had to have talked about it and put it into practice and they didn't do it at all. Another cryous silence — it must be that it is not important —: the regulation of the Law of Back. How much confusion, how much anxiety and concern you are creating in so many industries located on the coast, which you see is that what is moving forward with regard to the regulation to amend the Law of Back raises serious questions, in serious danger the establishment of these industries and, therefore, the future of many large families. What an opportunity to clarify all this, what an opportunity to initiate commitments to the Central Government and what an opportunity for the Socialist Party to show that they are really talking now! It's causing a bit of confusion about whether you're going forward or not. I'd ask them to clarify it here too, to realize that there's a huge concern for a lot of people. We, of course, will take to the corresponding ministries this anxiety and the need not to carry out the plans at least as you are considering them. And finally, another forgetting about the fisheries sector. No word in the agreement they signed, no word in respect of the plans that the central government has at a particularly crucial time, at a particularly difficult time. As in the European funds. We need the Central Government to defend Galicia as the main fishing power in Europe with regard to the possible effects of Brexit. No words about all this, no information. Listen, the last time we were called to Madrid to talk about Brexit, so many statements that we had to go hand in hand between the autonomous communities and the state to talk about the impact! It was months ago, and months and months, we didn't know anything again. I suppose the central government will be doing something in defense of the whole territory and, therefore, of Galicia as well. But we don't know how much we ask. So we'll also take this issue as a fundamental issue in the Galician Agenda. Another block is also fundamental — and I'm going to finish, President — that's all that refers to public services. Education. Of course, we will bring before the Central Government a pact that guarantees stability in the education of the next generations, which will allow us to continue to keep in time and even improve the magnificent results that are reaching our Autonomous Community in this direction. And we want to avoid permanent regulatory changes. I think we all agree that there is coordination of the committees that prepare the proofs of access to the university. This was practically closed and suddenly—another consequence of the government's paralysis in function—nothing is known. We want to make a model of access to the teaching activity similar to the one in the MIR. All of this was under way, of all this we know, of all this nothing you talked about in your agreement, and all of this we'll take it to our schedule. In health care we also need the Government, in its proper part, to take action, and to take urgent action. We must overcome the shortage of professionals, especially in certain specialties and especially in difficult squares to cover. This can't be done just by the Galician Union. The Galician Union is making a great effort, and we're still doing it, but we need collaboration. And we're not asking for it, they're asking for it all the autonomous communities of the state, who are suffering from the same problem, and we don't know anything, nothing you've raised. It's, of course, a claim we'll have to bear. We're investing as an autonomous community almost 70% of the amounts the dependency is paying for. So we're going to make a very clear and very fair claim — not just us — that's going to be done by many autonomous communities: that the state pays the same thing that we're paying autonomous communities in dependence. And just with this we could cover 100% of the demands that are now out of the question. Education from 0 to 3 years. We have just adopted a pioneering measure: children's schools from 0 to 3 years free of charge from the second child and next. Now we're going to request the State's contribution so that freeness can be in all squares and at all ages. We think it's a fair demand and therefore we'll take it to our agenda. Attention to social services. We have to ask -- I don't know if in all the autonomous communities -- compensation for the increase in wages for the disabled. The central government has decided it, we are paying it to the autonomous communities; we are all in agreement, of all political colors, that this is a demand to be brought; those who have made the decision will have to make that decision with the corresponding funding; so we will do it. We also want to recover the aid to accommodate unaccompanied minors and recover the funds — reduced to a very important amount in 2019 — for the fight against child poverty, so this will also have to be recovered. In Justice we asked for something so obvious, so normal and, of course, so surprising that last year it had been the first time it had not been observed, as the Ministry of Justice heard the autonomous communities and the judiciary; if you do not want to listen to us, that you listen to the judiciary about the needs for the creation of judicial bodies and that you do not decide to create them in places that have not been asked or, at least, not asked in the first place, because there are other priorities. We will, of course, continue to request that the Assistant Police Unit be completed. He's dropping into his troops. I remember the two increases that have occurred in very difficult times, in 2012 and 2013; therefore, the normal thing is to ask that, if things are going a little better now -- or at least you tell us -- to re-complete the unit as soon as possible. In new technologies, at the end of the day — there would be a lot of other things but to stick to those twenty-five measures — we need the state to be a little more agile or much more agile in the execution of Feder funds in the part that touches it. He's making a serious commitment to meeting the goals of the Union's investment, which he's actually fulfilling his share, to provide a homogenous bandwidth and allowable throughout the Greek territory. This is being paid with European funds and it turns out that the big problem we have at the rate of execution by the state. And lastly, in everything that refers to the cultural block, we need the state to realize — nor do you speak of anything, Mr Bará — that the year 2021 is going to be the Year of Xacobeo. See if it's going to happen like in 2010, that when we got to the Bipartite, I didn't know that 2010 was the Xacobeo Year. They're going through exactly the same thing again. We have been complaining for months and months that the State puts the batteries and realizes that the Xacobeo is a fundamental event, not only for Galicia, of course, but for the state as a whole and also, if I am allowed, for Europe. And, therefore, we will have to turn from promises to facts. And all those words that we were told, that we were going to make a Plan of Cultural Interest of the Way, if we were to improve road safety, if we were to do tourist promotion actions, we needed it to be reality, and we saw absolute paralysis. It must not be very important — and I assure you it is — because you in your pact say absolutely nothing and every time we have been addressed to the Socialist Government of Mr Sánchez tell us that calm, but time passes, the Jacobean comes and again, as happened in 2010, what we found in 2009 was absolutely nothing. So we will also take this theme as a fundamental theme, just as we will take the support of the candidatures to the heritage of humanity of the Sacred Ribeira; the Ministry of Culture already has the documentation; we hope that it will attend and support it. And also what it has to do with the candidacy of the Cyes, the Natural Park of the Atlantic Islands and the Iron of Illustration; we hope to support them; we were told that yes, but we don't know anything at all; you didn't care much either, it's not in the pact; we'll take it to the agenda. And we'll also talk, as I told you, about transfers, because, ladies and gentlemen, Autonomy hasn't invented it by any political party, by no one who's here, even though some people think it's the inventors and the promoters. The Galician Autonomy has made it all, and therefore the process of autonomy has touched each one of us at the moment to push it; it's a logical bilateral process. There was no doubt in one that Galicia wants to continue to grow in its self-government. Another thing is the other side. I want to remember that during the first governments, especially in the period during which President Manuel Fraga was President, there were seventy effective transfers — it was logical — he was building Autonomy—, EUR 2,200 million; then it is true that the Bipartite followed, he made a list of seventy transfers, at the end he got ten, most of them — you have to say, I have already said it in some appearance — of much smaller entity; while at that time Catalonia was granted — of course, for Catalonia everything, for Galicia; that's what I said in 2010, because I was in the Transfer Commission still with Mr Zapatero, because you got what you did and we got it back. None of the transfers that you asked for were worth it, they were worth it, we were all worth it, we were asked, by chance, we were told that no, and the few advances that were already being made were paralysed at the time of Mr. Zapatero. Just like they were paralyzed afterwards, and we said it, and we didn't like it, but during Mr. Rajoy's time there were no transfers, there was no one. From 2009 to 2011 they were in Catalonia, they were in some autonomous community ruled by the Socialist Party and they were not in Galicia. During Mr. Rajoy's years there were none; we said yes, that he had to speak, and therefore when a government reopens the possibility because it will be the time and now it is; we will see if this really happens or does not happen; we will make a list again and we will go with that list that recovers all the previous and many of those that have been agreed upon unanimously in this parliament. Also at the time when the People's Party in Central Government was ruling, we asked from here to transfer competences and, therefore, we will continue with that coherence. Let's see if we find coherence on the other side. Now there's a lot of statements. I'm going back to what I said before: that by giving some more than they're telling us what they're going to give them, that nothing is taken away from Galicia at all. Also in transfers it will be a good touch stone to see if Galicia, a fulfilling and loyal community, is given exactly what we deserve and what we're going to ask for. We have maintained our autonomy over these years, there have been no transfers for several years, but while many autonomous communities have lost their financial and even political autonomy because they had to resort to financial aid mechanisms, in Galicia fortunately we were able to maintain a very difficult situation and never lose that capacity. Now I think that's going to give us a position — if I may allow it — a little more dominant to demand all these transfers with much greater right and much greater foundation. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is the schedule we want to put forward. He sincerely believes that all are reasonable demands and urgent demands and, in many cases, absolutely essential demands. The first one — and I would like to reiterate it — I think it is very important, I think it is fundamental. I think the vast majority of the Greeks and the Greeks agree that we should be paid what we owe. It's very difficult to try to talk, try to claim against who owes you money and doesn't want to pay you. So this is going to be the first and fundamental. Of course, we will also continue with a competition that you have pointed out — at least agree that it is interesting, in other very interesting and very necessary, not even to remember them, but since we agree that this is fundamental, we will also claim as a matter of urgency, as a matter of priority, the transfer of AP-9. Of course, then we will continue with the completion of the deadlines for the AVE — at last telling us the truth — which has to do with the Statute of Intensives, which has to do with the constructions in the maritime-terrestrial public domain area, everything that is urgent, everything that is necessary. We're going to request a joint commission, right away. You speak in your agreement that he will be summoned. I suppose we'll be summoned within a maximum of three months. He's been there for a month and we haven't had any news. So we're going to remember what I said at the beginning: we negotiate between governments, we don't negotiate between parties, and, therefore, we're going with loyalty, we're going to go firmly, we're going to ask for what Galicia has to do with it. We should — and I hope so — act together, together for what really is important, and this is really very important, very interesting to us; many things that you have forgotten in that covenant that they have signed are very important and we are going to ask for everything. And I am sure they will agree with us that, despite these forgetfulness, those twenty-five priorities, in addition to transfers, are important, and I hope that we will have their support to claim them. And first of all, I ask the Galician Nationalist Block not to allow it to be deceived, or at least to be further turned into smoke, the statements that the Socialist Party — and I refer to the whole statement about AP-9 — seem to be very urgent and urgent to turn into smoke as soon as before, to deflate, to say that it was not so, that it was misinterpreted. No, no, things are the way they are. We are going to claim what is really needed, and I ask for the support of the BNG. They'll understand that, in addition, we're going to be much more ambitious and we're going to ask for a lot more realization than you put into the pact, because it's necessary, because you've left a lot of things and because those Galicia things can't leave them behind. And I also ask the parties that form the coalition that is ruling in Spain, frankly, not to miss Galicia. I think we're at a time when this has to be very clear. Let them not put, above the interests of these fundamental issues that Galicia claims, the interests of their parties. That the Socialist Party stops thinking that sometimes justifying the unjustifiable is a futile effort that leads to melancholy, usually people notice it, and points it out from the very first moment, because people are not stupid. Activities of these days trying to justify what is not happening to the head justifying no proper socialist from the rest of Spain, Mr. Socialist Party of Galicia. I ask them to still reflect, they are in time to join the cause that has to be general, because of the demands and the things that Galicia needs and that we will demand the Spanish Government and therefore the Government of all. We have our own schedule, the Galician Agenda, which I tried to expose here, we have our own needs and we have our own rights. In the end, it's all claiming, and claiming rights well. We're not going to allow, of course, them to postpone or ignore themselves, or to stand under the rights of others. As I told them at first, we don't want to be more than anyone, but, of course, we don't want or we won't be less than anyone. I say it because of the temptations and the things we're listening to, that there are a lot of biases — and I can understand it — that there are many alliances — we know them, some yes and some no. But look, in view of the desire to preserve power above what really matters, to which at the end you have the temptation, let's put what really matters to us all: Galicia, Galicia and Galicia, and a strong Galicia for a stronger Spain even. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u163	Thank you. Round of parliamentary groups. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u164	Good afternoon, gentlemen. Of course, who has now heard the Vice President of the Galician Council out of context would think that we are facing a super Rueda, a super hero who will face an enemy government of transfers and of the country, when really what we have before, surely, is the protagonist of Stevenson's novel of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde's case. The same person in the same legislation is able to come here to this rostrum with the same position as the representative of the Government defending things that are completely different. And look, those of us who have already taken the full legislation on this camera because we still don't remember what was the moment you asked to come here to present this Greek agenda when it was just formed in 2016 the Government of Mariano Rajoy. Tell me if I'm out of memory or if you really never presented here any political agenda of these characteristics. And in case they didn't, which is the case, because we've already checked out, explain to us why, why there's reason to be a presentation of a Greek agenda that should not be party but an institution, in front of another institution; that is, the Government representatives of the self-government of the autonomy of Galicia in front of the central government of the state. Why is it now yes and not before? What's changed? Explain what's changed, why we're here now and we weren't here when Mariano Rajoy's legislation was formed, also practically coincided with the constitution of this Galician Parliament. Well, there's nothing about it because then the People's Party in the State ruled, that's easy. There's no more explanation, and therefore that state government had here a government of meek, silent, lambs, sheep who had no interest in claiming anything they're talking about now, none of those twenty-five transfers, nor the first one. As a claim, they did not even claim the transfer of AP-9 when the German MEPs were voting against it and when Congress President Ana Pastor was vetoing the debate on the transfer of AP-9. Yes. [[Murmurs.]] Home!, so much so that we had to take him to the Constitutional Court in amparo. [[Murmurs.]] Of course, it was us, The Tide, who took him to the People's Party's Refusal to that debate. Then what are we talking about? Say, what's with this kind of propaganda here? Well, that's propaganda. He talks here, now he's started and now he's done re-enacting the transfers from our arrival to the Government. They didn't remember the whole legislation, that is, they didn't remember the ominous decade of government of Nuñez Feijóo from any single transfer to our country, or the first. Minto: only that of AP-9, there they voted in favour; the rest, against all; and in the matter of legislation, against; and all opposition groups at different times we put forward transfer proposals and you voted against, even against some who voted before in favour. So what's with this transfer account? What interest do they have in self-government? None, none. Institutional defense does that government and who's government, right? For here we are seeing an absolute exercise of hypocrisy in a presentation of an appearance that has nothing to do with the reality of its own journey, of its own political biography during this legislation, I say no further, I say during this legislation. In addition, it says that for ten years there has been no transfer to any autonomous community. That's not true. There were three autonomous communities, during Mariano Rajoy's sexism, who received new, distinct transfers from the People's Party and the Socialist Party; then that's not even true what he's saying. In addition, that would not remove that you, in the name of self-government, should consider that this chamber must claim its competences or increase the level of self-government, should vote in favour of that when it is proposed during this legislation by the members of the opposition, by the opposition groups. And they voted that not at all, at all. So we don't know very well now what this comes to. You're starting to crack down on your letter of claims and start talking about funding, and you're starting to make the accounts and the IVE accounts, because the IVE accounts aren't the accounts, they're the stories. There's a truth, and we agree with it: there's a money that is owed to us and not paid to us, and there they have us next to them. So far all the coincidences, because the line followed his intervention is only a restriction of lies. What's the lie about? In saying they're doing their best to get that money transfer to the yellow arches. That's a lie. First of all, they will have to clarify, explain and acknowledge that the current regulatory situation has been determined by a change that on the collection system of the IVE made, being Minister Montoro, the Government of Mariano Rajoy. Start by recognizing that. That's a regulatory situation that currently prevents the success of any judicial action that your Government proposes; I'm telling you now, so, well, let's go to the political root of the matter. The political root of the matter is a policy situation that needs to be changed and we're in the Legislative Chamber to change unfair normative realities. And to us it seemed unfair and for that reason in September we brought here to the House a bill, which we discussed in October, where we asked for the amendment of the law of the Government of Spain, in its article 21.3a, where we said, among other things, that there were no excuses of any kind or doubts of any kind, that the Government in office may adopt the regulatory provisions necessary to ensure the regular financial functioning of the autonomous communities, of the deliveries to account updating concerts, the return of the EVI months pending previous services and due amounts if this is the case for economic incentive or compliance with the objectives of budgetary stability (public debt, expenditure rule), so that the provision of fundamental public services is not limited or affected during this period. This rule equally affected everyone. It was no matter who ruled, it was an objectively fairer standard with everyone. What did the People's Party do? To vote against. And the main reason the People's Party representative argued in this debate was that, among other things, it is an unnecessary norm. Was it unnecessary there? Well, you're already seeing that it wasn't so unnecessary, that it was quite necessary, because the situation won't be solved by itself. So you were able to bet on building and carrying out a regulatory amendment that would allow you to solve this problem and you decided to vote against it. Explain why and don't come here now and complain about what Spain doesn't do. No, you've had the chance to at least plant properly. We're in the political forum. To stand politically means to make policy proposals that raise the situation of injustice. They wanted to? No, no, no, no. You come here to complain about the financing of demography and if you don't do it in the state. Look, you just passed a bill, which enters the House this week, where, among other things, they refuse, for example, the universalization of the right to education of 0-3 years, which has an educational function but also has a role of co-responsibility, of reconciling personal life, work, etc., and which is one of the keys also to establishing a context suitable for the responsible exercise of parenthood and motherhood. And they voted against, that is, they dropped the proposals that experts made at the Demographic Observatory. Well, in vitro fertilization for women in Sergas up to the age of 45 has decided to leave it out also because it seems to them that it shouldn't be important, when today there are more women who are mothers over 40 than under 25; that's yes, if they can afford it, they can only pay it. Well, this is their co-responsibility with the demographic issue. In pending infrastructures, you're here talking about AP-9 and I've already said before you forget that your Welsh Members in Madrid in the 2015 to 2019 legislation voted against, voted against systematically. The Bureau of Congress, at its moment, also voted against, vetoing the debate. So what's she now claiming to AP-9 as the main claim? On the highways, they're talking about A-8, Lugo-Santiago. That's all very good. Between 2014 and 2018, 2,400 million euros in investments in Galicia remained unimplemented. One part of them was railway infrastructure for VA and another part were highways. You have nothing to say? Didn't you have anything to say at the time? At Marea he presented a non-law proposal claiming to the Government that he would comply and lift this lack of execution in previous years. What did you guys do? To vote against. And, then, are you now claiming a bus? By the way, the AVE to Galicia. Not a word from the conventional railway, not a word from the conventional railway Ferrol-The Coruña or The Coruña-Lugo or Lugo-Ourense. Not a word from the connection of the external ports by rail, which condemn ostracism two infrastructures that have assumed a multi-millionaire investment. Well, we don't know what's going on with all this. Electrointensive consumer status. We've been complaining for years that this doesn't restrict companies. There's a leak, there's a robbery in every rule to families at the end of the month in receipt of light. And the same rule that goes to disassembly the lobby of the electrics also applies to disrupting the receipt of light, not only for the electrointensive companies, but also for all families, thus relieving many situations of energy poverty. As for Endesa, we have called her here for the first time and for years: fair ecological transition. Where were you? Voting against. Everything that was supposed to be a conversion for us, that conversion of what another fellow of yours was talking about, which was talking about the necessary recycling of jobs and the establishment in Ferrolterra of a hub of marine wind energy, was rejected by you; nothing, as alternatives nothing, because they lived much better in the conflict than in solving problems for people. I don't have any more time. Then we can continue on the five-minute replica. In Navantia they simply voted against here during this legislation that the Galician Council, for example, joined the Navantia Board of Directors; there we could do it, we had the statutory capacity to do it; and there they voted against it. It was also part of the competition. And that also defines, for example, trade policy. And when they did the international delegations, the Economic and Industry Councillor came out there, who also came out with the order wallet in Navantia. By the way, they also forget, regarding Navantia's workload, as Morenés dilated for two years the adjudication of the construction of the frigates to try to carry with his missile company the construction of those ships. Well, that's what there is. Therefore, from there, we very much fear that there is no super Wheel but rather a Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde who now has to play this role simply because Mariano Rajoy does not rule at Moncloa. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u165	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado. Mrs. Prado. So, I got the papers wrong. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Did they change about the march? I didn't have that record here. Okay, but I'm saying there's a failure here, of course it's clear that something's wrong or bad or... so, it's our fault. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, Mr. Bará, then.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u166	Well, good afternoon. Mr. Rueda, you came here to give a press conference, and the truth is you're an innovative press conference in Parliament, in Parliament's gallery, but the truth is that you left me a little undeclared. Because I thought you came here to talk about the demands of the Government of the United States to the Government of the State, and, in fact, you came here to talk about the agreement of the BNG, it was the star theme of your appearance, you came to oppose the BNG, and at the bottom of what demonstrates your intervention is that it suits you very much, look at you pro! I'd recommend a talc powder therapy, which is good for the stingers, is good for this that happens to you. [[Applause]] Of course, this deal is very bad. I think that in his intervention this was more than clear. And it was also clear that you came here with the People's Party T-shirt, not as vice president of the board. By the way, why are you coming? Why doesn't the president of the board come face to face in a matter of this transcendence and hide himself? As you said, he spoke of a very important block, a fundamental block; for a moment I thought he was referring to BNG; of course, I am moved by those expressions, Mr. Rueda. But you should come here and face the President of the Union, because this is about these great demands to the Central Government. And it became clear also in your intervention that you are not in a government strategy, to account, to make balances, but to be in a strategy of opposition, of opposition to central government and opposition to BNG. In his speech he became absolutely clear and you are in an absolutely submissive and subordinated strategy to the People's Party of Madrid and Genoa; a strategy, on the other hand, as you see every day, extremist, radical and reactionary, the strategy—we will talk more tomorrow—of the FAES and Vox. Of course, you came here to take a look at BNG's Welsh agenda. And by the way, you're not original, too, because they're a little bit of copies. It is clear in this case that the motherhood of the Welsh agenda was publicly announced in June 2018 by the national spokesperson for the BNG, Ana Pontón, to lay down duties on the new Government of the State after the years of discrimination of the governments of the People's Party in Galicia and Madrid, because then you didn't say a word, you were dumb about the forum, you were absolutely quiet. [[Applause]] And that Welsh agenda can be summed up in an expression, that agenda is summed up in: Galicia, first; Galicia, first. And for the People's Party the summary is: Madrid, first; Spain, first. His schedule is that of submission to Madrid. You also said this here: that of the defense of centralism, that of Spanishism rancio and reactionary of "Great and Free Spain." And look, I'm going to tell you something to make it clear: Galicia's problem is not Catalonia; who steals us is not Catalonia, who steals us is Madrid, who steals us is centralism, who steals us is dependence and also steals us corruption and the rotational doors; all that is what steals Galicia. And in this BNG Welsh agenda, it's mainly about two things: defending the interests of our country and putting Galicia on the map. I believe that it became clear in the debate that took place in the last few weeks in the Parliament of the State, that for the first time in an investment debate the Greek agenda was present, because until that moment the People's Party, neither in the opposition nor in the Government, put it on the map. And, therefore, it was given an opportunity to get a good deal, a very good deal. You are implicitly recognising it here when you have repeatedly spoken of this agreement. And I want to clarify one thing: it's an investment agreement. You brought here a letter to the Magi, because now they've given themselves to the epistular genre, which I don't know how many years it is, but this BNG agreement is an investment agreement, it's not a legislate agreement, it's not a government agreement, it's not a budget agreement either. There will already be an opportunity to negotiate further other things, also budgets, to shake the walnut, because here it is about waving the nuts and collecting the nuts, which do not always pick the nuts the same. I'd like you to do an imagination exercise, if you have the ability and possibility to do it. Do you imagine the investment debate if BNG wasn't there? Imagine that? Imagine, yes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] For you would not be here talking about everything BNG has achieved in that investment agreement that is beneficial to Galicia, of course, and one member of the BNG has achieved more than twenty-two other political forces representing Galicia. And the best proof that it was a great deal was what you said here, and Mr. Fexóo's reaction, because Mr. Fexóo went from being completely untiring to being angry, to being disgusted, to being absolutely upset. And, look, I'm not going to say thank you for the work that we have done -- that you should, too -- but don't ask us to do everything, that we are not the Government of the Union; the Government of the Union are you, Mr. Rego has told you clearly; if you are unable to do the work, let us, that we are prepared to take command, but don't ask us to do what the Government has to do, what the President of the Union has to do, what the Vice President of the Union has to do, of course, that they haven't done in the course of these years. [[Applause]] Because you don't come here to talk to us -- that's not dying, that's dying -- about transfers, if your balance is zero scrapper. It doesn't give me time to detail all this, we'll also talk at the next plenary session. But I can remind you of what you said, for example, in 2009. The Council of 8-10-2009, Mr. Rueda Valenzuela—textual— speaks: "We shall begin the phase of greatest self-government in Galicia". Send to Havana! [[Laughter]] The largest self-government phase in Galicia! [[Applause]] And you come here to give us lessons in transfers, self-government? [[Applause]] Zero potato is the ten-year government balance of the People's Party in Galicia. They didn't get any transfers. It's just that you're at Murcia's level. Galicia and Murcia were the only two communities that didn't get any transfer. But, then, why do you come here, Mr. Rueda? Do you come to teach us lessons? Look, the AP-9 is already dark brown. How dare you come here, with this real death, tell us that the People's Party has always supported the transfer of AP-9? If you have repeatedly ruled in the State Parliament... the processing of AP-9. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He made negative reports to the Government, Mrs. Pastor ruled that it was dealt with and that's why it's not transferred to AP-9. And then, of course, you talked here a lot about the BNG deal, but you shouldn't read it. I'll leave you a copy later. [[Mr. Bará Torres displays a document.]] Because, in fact, if you're here writing about the freeness of the Roundup and Vigo stretch and many other things that you said you weren't. But in the case of the highway — just like other infrastructure themes that are, like the sanitation of rivers or railways, they are — it is that what BNG has achieved in this agreement is ridiculous, leaves the Government of Greece in leather. Because what you did was you sent him -- well, in this case in December -- a letter from the Counsellor to the Secretary of State asking him infinitely much less than the BNG did with this agreement. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So, what do you guys come here to pretend about? They follow the agreement that BNG has reached and defend the agreement that BNG has reached. [[Murmurs.]] If we even call him the Joint Transfer Commission, you wouldn't give a stick to the water to call it. If we're doing the job for them. [[Applause]] We appreciate the work we're doing to them and we're not the Government. Put the batteries on. [[Applause]] They get to rule and stop wearing the T-shirt of the Madrid People's Party of Mr. Casado and the FAES, Ally of Vox. Yeah, I got more, don't worry. [[Laughter]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There were a number of media outlets that held, with regard to this agreement: the BNG brings together the PSOE with an agreement on the transfer, on AP-9, on... indeed, it was a deal that literally broke out in a very hard negotiation, with a great negotiating ability. And look, what is written here goes to Mass, because this is not said by Mr. Meijón, this has been consulted with the Secretary of State of Infrastructure, and what is put here has been endorsed by the Secretary of State of Infrastructure. [[Mr. Bará Torres displays a document.]] [[Murmurs.]] Of course, now you have to put it in the budgets. [[Murmurs.]] This has a price, but this is the price that BNG put in for his investment vote. Then he'll put more prices on the negotiations that come, because we don't have our hands tied, like others, to negotiate or to shut up, to say "yes, babana", as you say......when they're in the government or opposition, what they're sent to them in Madrid. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's what you two say is in the government and in the opposition. [[Applause]] Well, I don't have time for this shift to talk about AVE. And transfers too, if I have a chance, I'll talk later. But what I want to finish, Mr. Rueda, is, sincerely, thank you for your presence, thank you for speaking so much about the BNG, the BNG agreement, the important thing that is the BNG, the block so fundamental and so important that you said, and, therefore, how important it was that the BNG arrived at the Congress of Deputies, which is what he thinks — whether nationalist or not, vote or not the BNG — a huge majority, as well as the surveys, of the people of Greece; thank you for the BNG, because — as you say — if the BNG is, Galicia is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u167	Thank you, Mr Bará. Joint Left Group, Mrs. Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u168	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Notice, Mr. Rueda, that, listening to you, one might think that you have never ruled in the state and that you have never ruled or this country. I think if you spend five more minutes with him, he almost convinces us that all the ills in Galicia are from now on, from a government that's been running for three weeks. That's power, and the rest, of course, are nonsense. But we have memory, Mr. Rueda. We have memory, fortunately, there's a hemerothec that, with which we've given him a few minutes, disassembles much of the story that you've come to tell us. To deepen a serious debate, you will understand that having the full map is necessary. So, of course, we can start talking about funding, about the return of the EVI. And you see, we've said it since the zero minute: of course we have to claim the refund of the 2017 VAT, we're going to claim it and we're sure that the political dialogue will give its fruit and Galicia will recover the 200 million it owes. Dialogue, the height of democratic vision and maturity, Mr Rueda, is what citizenship expects of us, that we offer solutions. Enough of Mr Feijóo's patalette and cynicism and all of his Government, because, look — let's remember him — was the People's Party which caused the problem by modifying the management system of the EVI in 2016 and extending the deadline for the filing of the liquidations in 2017, and then you agreed. If it had been little, it was you too, it was also the People's Party that prevented this from being solved by blocking the 2019 budgets and taking us to elections. [[Murmurs.]] And here it's also interesting to remember, because -- it's done -- on March 23, 2018 you brought to this chamber an initiative in which you literally demanded that parliamentary groups in the General Courts if you had asked them, because of their importance for Galicia's economic and social improvement, contribute to facilitating the processing, debate and timely adoption of the State's general budgets for 2018. That is to say, when the People's Party governs it says that approving State budgets is to be committed to the country and when it opposes it absolutely everything, making the opposition more disloyal and destructive to exhaust a government at any price, to the point that, filled with recklessness and irresponsibility, as they are in this unrestricted electoralism that will not lead them anywhere, rather than looking for mechanisms of recovery of the IVE — which they know exist — they propose that the issue be raised to the courts, where any political solution could be paralyzed and where we would also be taking unnecessary risks. Faced with this -- I insist -- we have people working seriously and we can clearly tell you that the matter will be resolved. I'm telling you more: if you're so worried that we'll recover the 200 million corresponding to Galicia, and since you completely ignore institutional dialogue, take advantage of your travels to Madrid to tell Casado that it doesn't interfere with the next government budgets, because that's the easiest way that we'll recover the 200 million. I don't know if you know what institutional loyalty is, we imagine you don't, because every time we made a proposal like this you voted against. Of course, we have to talk about a new autonomous funding for Galicia. Of course, we have already been told here, we have often brought this matter to this parliament and every time the opposition groups put a concrete proposal on the table — like ours, in which we were talking about the need for a new financing system that guarantees Galicia's financial self-sufficiency and a greater degree of autonomy, greater regulatory capacity on the tax yields— you said no. Do we want the 200 million that corresponds to the IVE? Of course. But you know what we want, too? The 516 million euros that cost us their sovereignty in relation to the financial matter of this country; 516 million over-cost in which they incurred, which we supported the Greeks and the Greeks, for a poor management of debt by their governments, Mr. Feijóo, between 2012 and 2016. Too bad, Mr. Rueda, that these 516 million euros don't matter so much to you or Mr. Feijóo! As it seems, he does not care so much about EUR 438 million of over-costs and contractors' claims for the worst management of the People's Party in all the reference to AVE to Galicia. As the Court of Auditors collects in its report, Adif has stopped the works of the AVE in Galicia between 2016 and 2017 in an irregular manner and even in some cases contrary to the law. You must be very worried about this matter. Decisions that have been taken — as the report says — inconsistently because of inadequate planning and lack of coordination between the administrations, and that you governed both here and in the Government of the State; 438 million euros are squandered by the mismanagement of the People's Party, particularly with Ana Pastor in front of the Ministry of Development, of whom you have not said anything; party partners who — which is curious! — forget to name and without those who will — understand — the history of the AVE is incomprehensible. Mr. Rueda, you have come to claim that the People's Party has always committed itself to the deadlines of the AVE. Indeed, commitment has often been made by changing the date over and over again according to what he was interested in, and yet they have not fulfilled. Because committing to the People's Party is very cheap. What makes us very expensive to Galician citizenship is their non-compliance. I insist: EUR 438 million only in breach of Galician AVE. Of course, we remember his electoral propaganda, even though we fully remember that he was Alberto Núñez Feijóo, Manuel Fraga's Infrastructure Advisor when in 2003 — and look where we were going — announced that the journey between The Coruña and Ferrol would be made in AVE in 2010; ten years later, of course, it's still a lie. Like the high-speed connection between Lugo and La Coruña, which takes today hour and a half, times which last century's own are unacceptable and in which the People's Party is clearly responsible. You were the ones who ruled the state, you had the powers. Ana Pastor, Iñigo de la Serna, no matter how much they wanted to deny their party partners, were their ministers, they were ministers of the People's Party; it was their ministers who paralyzed the works, who left billions of euros unexecuted and you shut up and looked to the other side. To remember, we had to remember, until we remembered the promise of Feijóo that the AVE would go to Lugo, if it was necessary to pay with autonomous budgets. It was January 10, 2009 in Lugo, in case he misses his memory. Here we leave the press release to him in case he doesn't wake up. Of course, we will ensure that the deadlines of the AVE are met and that they are never made at the expense of security, never shortcuts when it comes to the security of citizenship, nor do we ever make any cuts to the cost of the right to the city, which is what we have at stake when we talk about the Ourense intermodal. Mr. Wheel, stop loving carts and get to work, sit down and work with Abalos to wake up a new project of the Ourense intermodal without delaying the arrival of the AVE. They work in a coordinated manner, assuming the clear demands on the table to the platform for a Worthy Train for Ourense, who handles a project that does not leave people out, who fulfills its role of vertebrating the country and guarantees the city's connection with its entire surroundings. [[Murmurs.]] And if we talk about the country's vertebration, of course, we have to talk about sustainable mobility, railway. You said nothing about the need to develop a true network of proximity capable of shielding the right to mobility of all citizens, a point gathered in the coalition government agreement on which we will insist. As we want to insist on the need to forgive the debt of the Coruña port or to finance the railway connection to the outer port of Punta Langosteira, which is fundamental to its viability. We expect your complicity in these matters. And from AP-9, you want to talk about AP-9, a true chronic scam. Here telling the story would soon take us the ten minutes, but we can't forget the protagonists. It was Mr. Aznar, your companion, president, Mr. Aznar, who increased the concession until the year 2047, which, if it were not for him, would end next year. Of course, in the People's Party they always try to leave everything tied and well tied and, if it's business for their friends, even more so. And now they're talking about AP-9 and the beaches. So remember, because only during the period of this legislation in which Rajoy ruled the People's Party, you specifically voted up to seven times against reviewing AP-9's fees, on the contrary, up to seven times, Mr. Rueda. And, if that were little, it was the People's Party, with the invaluable help of Ana Pastor — again, we have to see this lady's commitment to her country — which prevented the debate at the Congress Bureau on the processing of AP-9's law on the transfer of powers. We said it when Rajoy ruled, when he ruled Sánchez and said it now in coalition government: we want an AP-9 public and free. Mr. Rueda, I hope you'll explain to me whether you're going to want a free and public highway or you're going to have to keep paying the Greeks and the Greeks the gifts they make to your friends. You, as far as you can see, remember, but I'm saying no to you. That's why it's a shame for us to come here talking about self-government. They've been without competence for a decade, Mr. Rueda, for a decade. There were numerous proposals from opposition groups for transfer applications and you voted against it. We insist, of course, on the need to move forward in self-government, on the need to demand more capacity to decide our future and to ensure the well-being of citizenship. And, of course, it's one of our claims for the Government of the State: more territorial dialogue and more decentralization, points on which the coalition agreement was negotiated. But there are many other issues that we will move to the Government that we understand are of great relevance to Greek citizenship and that you have forgotten, such as the creation of judges specialized in gender violence, a matter that we have already agreed on in this parliament and that, Mr Rueda, you have not transferred to the Joint Committee, as was your obligation to agree with the parliamentary agreement we had. Why didn't he? I wish I could explain it on his own. You'll understand that we often tell you that in the fight against macho violence there is a need for fewer speeches and more resources. We must therefore be strong, compromise on this request. We also invite you to defend other matters that are very relevant to Galicia, such as the auditing and the return of goods that are polished by franchise, starting with the Meiraes palace, a necessary step forward in the repair of the victims. The sanitation of the rivers, the promotion of the language itself, the implementation of a return plan of all that youth you drove out of the country, one hundred and sixty thousand young men and women who drove out of this country. And we want, too, to invite you to highlight the very important measures that are already having an effect on Greek citizenship. Fundamental affairs achieved in 15 days. An increase in the minimum wage that directly affects 300 thousand people in Galicia, where we have the lowest wages in the state. Or the rise of pensions, which directly affect the lives of 766,000 people in Galicia, where we also have the lowest pensions in the state. I don't know what you guys did in these matters when they ruled, they were of course never their priorities...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u169	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u170	...because their priorities are never the welfare of citizenship. Let me tell you, Mr. Rueda: electoralism lasts what lasts, it sells the seams and the only project they have for Galicia is the opposition to the government of the state. The best thing they can do is call elections now and let citizenship choose its future. Listening to his appearance, as he put himself in the opposition, it seems to be quite clear what it will be. For our part, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u171	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Rueda, good afternoon. I suppose, Mr. Rueda, you know that famous scorpion fable that ends up poisoning whoever's trying to save his life. And you started with an attempt to institutionalize your appearance, but in the end you can't help being as you are. And since he can't help but be as he is, he started questioning the impartiality of a democratically elected government and spoke — as he does! — of the mortgages of a coalition government. You're about to talk about mortgages! You're going to talk about mortgages in Murcia, Andalusia, Madrid, with those of the parental pin, parental veto or who want to illegalize an important part of the way of thinking of Spain, the state and Galicia. [[Applause]] You are, Mr. Rueda, to talk about mortgages. But I have to admit that at some point he managed to understand myself, because, imbued with this victim's appearance, you forgot that Galicia at the moment is not going so bad with a government of progress, a government that bets on social policies, a government that has managed that 766,309 pensioners have a rise of 0.9% with retroactive effects, on the contrary of that 0.25% embarrassing, because there could be no other thing but rise that amount. Or what the salaries of the officials went up, which raised the minimum wage, to EUR 950, also for the workers in Galicia. [[Applause]] And that, Mr. Rueda, in three ministers' councils. Do you really oppose these advances? Look, Mr Rueda, the PP — we all know — is ruling in Galicia thirty-three out of thirty-nine years of autonomy and it turns out that he is suddenly not responsible for anything. It's all because of a central government that's been working for three weeks. We must have an unprecedented destructive capacity in history, in three weeks they were able to destroy all progress, all progress made in Galicia. [[Applause]] I know you're upset, I know you're upset, I know you're interrupting me and I know the strategy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u173	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u174	...to change what's going on, but with me it won't work. I'm used to having thirty students in front of me without taking any case and talking to everyone about theirs. Don't worry, don't worry. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u175	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u176	Mr. Wheel, you hide your own ineffectiveness and failure...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u177	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u178	...using the self-government as a trench against the State Government and converting the Council of the Council of Galicia, the Government of all the Greeks, to the board of directors of the People's Party of Galicia. [[Applause]] But we're going aside. As for AP-9, doesn't the People's Party have any responsibility for us having a concession until the year 2048? Is it not the responsibility of Ana Pastor to have ratified the terms of an agreement for the increase of the fees? Of course, in front of us we have a government of the state that is the first in history that does not extend the limit of the concessions of the highways that are due and that often provides very few friends in certain companies, but the reality is that, if the AP-9 concession period had not been extended, in the year 2023, it would already finish this account of increases and tolls. And there's a commitment that I won't have time but that you read it very well and also made reference to Mr Bará regarding certain fees and bonuses. But what draws my attention to all this is that you should know that in 2017 the Group of the People's Party in the Galician Parliament voted against a non-legislative proposal by the Socialist Party in which it was requested that the fees be reduced and that the cost of the works be borne by the general budgets of the state. And now you ask. It's very curious, or not so much. With regard to the AVE — yes, yes, yes, yes, there are the hemerothecs and there is also the Parliamentary Journal of Galicia, do not worry, that I have already told you that they will not change me, I will go to mine and them to yours, Mr Rueda, you know that there will not be a minute delay due to lack of political impulse. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Different things are the technical complexities that project development can have. Of course, from going to Galicia, from increasing security in a trace of the AVE, I think it should be quite frank. But you're still in the lunatic with that matter, as if it wasn't something that you have absolutely clear, maybe when we just heard a report from the Court of Auditors that leaves the People's Party's Government in a situation about which I think it's shameful to be frankly ridiculous to qualify it. [[Applause]] It is much worse than that, because at the end of the report it follows that, in the case of Galicia, the Government of the State of the People's Party was responsible for a 49.2% execution of budgets, for causing 50 months of delay and nearly 500 million euros in compensation to businesses. And what did you ask then? Chitton. With regard to IVE, you have explained it to him, in addition, I believe that with a difficult legal solvency — at least for my side — to overcome, Mr. Villares, with regard to the regulations that exist and the impossibility. You are responsible for all the important things that we have from the point of view of the legislative compliance in this Autonomous Community, including, by the way, the Law of Back, to which you referred, a Law of Back of the Year 2013 — Popular Party — with a regulation of the Year 2014 — Popular Party — which you know much better than me that is giving rise to unprecedented situations as to the interpretation of the terms in which the durations of the concessions are made. And you're responsible for all this. Just like you're responsible for putting this autonomous community and the rest of the state in the EVV and its change in 2017. With regard to the electro-intensive industries — which, of course, are already a classic — the People's Party has not written a single line of necessary statute that has not pushed at any time, and now, in recent months, I am able to make drafts and solve the problem. And I wonder: so much efficiency and sudden solvency and so much indolence and neglect for years to which it obeys? Do you have an answer to that, Mr. Rueda? We also have commitments with regard to the Statute for Intensive Industries and how to make them competitive in other countries with similar industries located elsewhere in the world. With regard to the Bridges, you didn't make the slightest planning on a necessary ecological transition, because it was a problem that didn't exist, because your advisor, who was third-degree related to Mr. Rajoy, didn't believe in climate change and therefore it wasn't necessary to do anything — it was related to third-degree, a cousin is related to third-degree, I think, I believe. [[Murmurs.]] And the Government of Spain is working for a fair and necessary ecological transition, but also, as much as you deny it, defending the interests of the workers. Because you know, and you know in the Bridges, that the workers at the station have their jobs guaranteed, that new investments are going to be made in renewable energy and that the company is looking for alternatives with alternative fuels to find a viability for this most important problem for this entire region, which is the most important for Galicia. But look, they're no longer wrong, they're in retreat and they know it, and this appearance is an obvious proof of the degree of despair in which they are found, because they know there's an unstoppable inertia of change and the only thing that happens to them is to generate a strategy of confrontation, not only of contempt for the adversary and indecent use of the Unity of Galicia. It is the only project they have, because they are not able to avoid hiding that there are fewer teachers than in 2009, one thousand five hundred fewer; that they have broken the health system, taking measures that have ended up bringing up a minute president victim of his own decisions; that there are fewer workers in Galicia than ten years ago; that they have left a Galicia that has abandoned cities and abandoned rural areas in addition to abandoning them — it is not that he has abandoned it, that he has not cared about it, that he has left it as he was, indeed—; that he has multiplied by 4.17 the public debt payment costs, which he spent from 393 million euros in 2009 to 1.642 in the budgets of this year 2020; a MOVE plan — that are infrastructures too, Mr Rueda, exclusive competition from the Autonomous Community — about which it is almost best not to make any reference, because we all see how this situation is. And, therefore, Mr. Rueda, I have a little more to tell you, because time is over. In any case, what I ask you is whether you are in a position to make a loyal and respectful opposition to a legitimately constituted government that is the fruit of the majority who were able to articulate on the basis of the vows that citizenship has given to everyone in the November elections. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u179	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u180	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, good afternoon. I'm the first one I want to congratulate the Government on this appearance. Some people miss that another person had come other than the vice president's, but the fact is that no opposition group has asked for this appearance, and it's on the Government's own request and it's also an important request for appearance because if this appearance is translated, it should be translated, into a good example of self-government exercise and also since institutional loyalty. The Greek Agenda summarizes the philosophy of the majority in the face of a political moment in which we must not forget that both in Spain and in the whole of Europe there is a crisis of democracy which tends on some sides towards authoritarianism because of the populisms of all colors and also a crisis of the territorial model of the state, of the model that we have, as a consequence of both those who want to break the autonomous system by independence and those who want to return to centralization. Since this debate is so important, I want to begin by lamenting the tone of opposition groups. I am sure that the five thousand families who are pending the Electrointensive Regulations, those who work in the 100 companies who are pending how the Rules of the Law of the Back are interpreted in a sense contrary to what has been understood so far and which also affects the eighty thousand families who sell wood to a company that is also under threat of closure, or the seventy families who live in the thermal power plant bridges and who affect the whole county of Ferrolterra, Eume and Ortegal, and I am even sure that all those families who feel concerned because they see that they do not cover the pediatric or medical squares because there are no people who are present, after listening to you, will not be at all quieter, because that really is what goes to Agenda, a self-government exercise to defend the interests of the Greeks, the interests of the people, of the families who live in Galicia, and from then on with the highest institutional loyalty. The Agenda is relevant over time, consistent with its contents and consistent with the political action that this government is developing. It is relevant at the moment for the importance of the subjects. No one denies that there have been months of political paralysis in the state, and that means that the problems are piled up. In some cases, because it was impossible for the Government of Spain to deal with them, as may be the education pact; many others for questions of ideology and political priorities of the Socialist Group, which said that it could not be passed by real decree the deliveries to account and neither the IVE, and then if they could be delivered to account when IVE could also be, but decided not to do so; and some are even for an obvious ideological money order, legitimate but evident, and that it has consequences, for example, the change in relation to the fair energy transition, which they have gone ahead in relation to the commitments that Spain had with Europe and — which is most important — with the families working in the thermal power plants in Galicia. And I want to remember that this agenda was presented before the elections, it was approved by the Government in October, before there were elections; therefore, it was an agenda that would be claimed to the Government of Spain regardless of who ruled, cannot be seen as an attack on the current Government. [[Applause]] Moreover, it was passed before the elections and it was once constituted the Government, a government, Mr. Álvarez, which you limit to three weeks, but I want to remind you that the motion of censure was in 2018, in the summer, and that there was a government with powers and constituted to solve some of the problems like the IVE, which were said to be solved at that time. Secondly, the Agenda is consistent in its contents, it defends Galicia's interests and defends what we ask the Government chaired by Rajoy, what we ask the Government chaired by Rajoy and that it has already committed to Galicia, and of course new things, which are fruit of the new policies it has set in motion for two years ago by the Socialist Party in the Government of Spain; by the way, all of them, almost all, with some minor exception, have already been ratified and approved by this parliament; therefore, we are not inventing anything. You say we never ask. So, look, we asked the Rajoy Government for the criteria for the model of self-financing, we made it with a pact with the Socialist Group, we appointed experts and adopted resolutions in this House in 2017 and 2018. The AVE, operating in testing for the year 2019, in the debate of the state of Autonomy of 2017. The high-speed connection to Lugo, the improvement of the railway connection Ferrol-A Coruña, the southern railway exit of Vigo and its connection to Portugal, the performance at the concentration points of road accidents in the state network, the proposal of the Block in 2017 — which, by the way, if you skip the pact between the Block and the Socialist Party — is something that you brought to this camera and we support. Also, the dredging of the Burgo River, the Vigo-O Porriño, Ourense-Lugo and the Navy motorways in March 2018, all of them on a proposal from the Socialist Group; the withdrawal of the restrictions of the restoration rates in health, on a proposal from the Socialist Party; the financing of 50% of the dependency, on a proposal from the BNG; and, of course, the transfer of AP-9, which we have voted three times here and we demand from the Government of Mariano Rajoy, as we are going to demand from the Socialist Party exactly the same, better said, to the Socialist Party and Podemos, who jointly govern in the coalition. All these requests we have made to the Rajoy Government would be a counterfactual to know, if there were no motion of censure, if they had met. I'm sure some of them do. What I do know -- and that's a counterfactual -- is that since 2018 the Socialist Party has been ruling and has done absolutely nothing. What's incoherent is that about what you asked for the Government of Mariano Rajoy when we remember that the Government of Spain in it should you put your cry in the sky and say that we're facing it. That's absolutely incoherent. He said that others are paralyzed, for example, the agreement of the International Health Council with all the autonomous communities, precisely to alleviate the shortage of professionals, or to refuse to pay incentives, the 170 million, to the fulfilling communities; but if that is what is in the budgets that have been in force for more than two years, it is only necessary to convene the Tax and Financial Policy Council, which does not take more than a year and a half, to get out of this issue. We have asked for it before and we continue to ask for it now, such as the freeness of the beach between Roundola and Vigo. And so on. And there's finally news, but these are the ones that derive from the government's action. With Rajoy's government there were no imminent closing threats from electro-intensive companies; that's why we're demanding that electro-intensive companies not be closed. With Rajoy's government there was no acceleration of the closing times of the thermal power plants; it was you who accelerated the closure of the thermal power plant. With the Rajoy Government there was not a draft of the Law of Back which threatened the closure of more than a hundred companies in Galicia. With Rajoy's government, we haven't reached a debt conviction agreement with a port authority and deny it to another; so we put it in our schedule. Rajoy's government did not have ministers threatening that "the diesel has the days counted" and sinks the sales of diesel and the production of Citroën. With the Rajoy Government, Galicia never denied the creation of the judges who, by common accord, called upon it by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia and the Union, and, on the other hand, when you arrived, you were called for a trial for Lugo and denied it; it is the first time. So all of this has to be incorporated into the new Greek Agenda. Just as it has to be incorporated that for the first time in the history of the autonomous state of Galicia and the autonomous communities it is not given what has been collected in its territory and which by law corresponds to it, the 200 million VAT. They were talking about dialogue here. Today the minister said that the 2,500 million, of which 200 are from Galicia, do not exist. You talk to see if they show up, because according to the minister, today, they don't exist. He said it was relevant in time, consistent in its content, but it is also consistent with the political action of the Union. It is consistent with the political action of the Union because the Union has been very loyal to this government. When we talk about meeting the European objectives of budgetary stability, this community met, and helped Spain and avoided a problem for all governments in Spain, they were colourless. So you have the right to demand what's appropriate for you, because you've been a fulfilling community, and what you pay for you, which is the 200 million VAT. When we're saying that commitments are being made in renewable energy, we need to remember that in Galicia we're at 55% of renewable energy production, Spain is at 38%. We greatly improve the energy production balance with renewable energies from the Spanish ensemble; therefore, there is no right to delay the closure of the Galician thermal power plants, when they are also investing in conforming to European legislation. And when Galicia loyally consults the Law of Foreign Cooperation, it cannot allow what Minister Borrell has done, who has been closing the embassies of an disloyal community with the Spanish ensemble, to see now just how to get to the Government if he forgets that policy and reopens these embassies. Because what we are not going to accept — and this is indeed a political declaration — is that we, who are a loyal community, will not treat us worse than loyal communities. We are not going to accept budgets that go up to 50 percent of those who violate the rules and challenge the state and continuity of the Spanish Constitution, while we are downgrading our investments. We are not going to accept bilateral treatment that benefits some and establishes privileged situations on other autonomous communities, or even that some controls are relaxed, as we are seeing, for example, in judicial matters. Well, this Galician Agenda, which was formulated before the elections, which is also being defended with the support of this chamber virtually in all its measures, and which is also within the Constitution and the Statute, because it will be what will mark our political line. And we think it's good for the country, we think it's good for the country, we think you should be consistent as well, as we are, and continue to support these measures, which to a very good extent come from proposals from you that we have made ourselves. We'll have a chance in the next plenary session to see who's on either side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u181	Thank you very much, Mr. Puy. Mr. Rueda Valenzuela, Vice-President and Counsellor of the Presidency, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to try to answer everything or almost everything you've proposed. It's funny, because, in addition, there were some topics that did not touch; almost seeing those who avoided playing as they feared, you get a pretty good idea of what you don't want to talk about, probably because you'll have very little to say, uh, Mr Bará; not a word of 370 million, not only in the pact, but now, not a word. I mean, I've got more time and I'm gonna try to answer some things, some coincidences, and some things don't. I'm going to start with Mr. Álvarez, the Socialist Party, more than anything because it's what they have to do. Mr Bará was right. Hey! I'm talking about the pact they signed because it's a reference, and I suppose they'll have thought they'd meet him in these early stages of this government. Welcome to Mr. Sanchez's new age. By the way, Mr. Álvarez, Mr. Puy told you, they haven't ruled for three weeks, they've been ruling for 18 months. I suppose you're interested in putting the counter to zero, because you won't be too proud of Galicia for everything you've done during this time, but it's not three weeks, it's a lot more. So we're going to put things in their place too. And I understand that these three weeks have been very intense and they give a lot. And you told me we're not -- the Government of the Union -- willing to oppose a legitimate government. I don't argue with legitimacy, I'd miss it any more. Of course it's a legitimate government. Another thing is the pacts we had to come to, those that tell us and those that don't tell us, to make up that legitimate government. But that's already a government, they're no longer in office, too, if they're finished with many of the excuses they said because they were in office, which lasted those eighteen months that you forgot. Well, now you'll have to start doing it. And we don't want to oppose him, you're the ones who're here in the opposition in Galicia, and they've been long enough, and we're in the government. And so the government's responsibility — that's what it has to do, that's what I'm here to do — is to pose what we truly believe is of interest to Galicia, which is necessary and which we can't expect anymore, to those who are ruling in Madrid in the Central Government. So, you're here in the opposition, we're here in the government and we don't want to oppose a legitimate government; what we want is that you get to work and get a lot of things. You told me we had to be happy and, on the other hand, we were very nervous about the benefit of the government in three weeks. So, honestly, it's not to be too proud of the news we've had these three weeks. I hope they address you. That's why it's urgent that we see each other as soon as possible and start thinking things over. But, look, in three weeks, apart from other messes that you've set up -- and I'm not going to waste the time on it -- because everyone's talking about the messes and the lies that they've told in other things they're interested in, or, well, we're all interested in -- because I focus on what's the object of this appearance, you know perfectly what I'm talking about and I'm not going into it; as you said, you're trained not to distract yourself, and I'm going to try not to distract myself in what we really care about. And what we're really interested in is that you can't in less than three weeks tell us that you won't pay us 370 million, telling us here also a new lie saying they've disappeared, without giving explanations. First news, to be proud and happy, Mr. Álvarez. We're not going to charge, we have no hope, now we'll see the solutions your government partners give us here from this parliament. And we can't be very happy that in three weeks we'll see it wasn't true, that they couldn't solve or start solving everything that has to do with electrointensives, but that as soon as they're ruling, we'd already have status and the principle of solving a topic that is increasingly urgent, most urgent to this day. Nothing, again a new Council of Ministers and a new kick forward, without any solution. They just confirmed in three weeks that everything they told us and all that Minister Abalos told us about the deadlines of the AVE and that he was getting very angry, as if he was angry almost every time some reporter asked him, when we told him it wasn't true that it could be the AVE within the deadlines he told us -- they told us it wasn't so -- now he just recognized that no and we're going to have to wait for a lot more. It's not good news, Mr. Álvarez, you'll understand that we can't be too proud. Just as we cannot be proud of the loud silence here both of you — to see if this second opportunity I have to place them as Government to you — as opposed to the opposition to tell us whether it is true or not it is true that everything you started to say to the Socialist Party about what was in the pact that you signed with respect to the AP-9 because, hey!, it was not true and what is said is that as soon as the 2020 budgets are approved, because then they will begin to subsidise 100 % of the travel back and forth at any time and to the whole world. That's what they say. Then you began to say that it was nothing; well, you have the opportunity and say: no, it's true, you were right about the pact and everything that was said prominent representatives of the Socialist Party about that wasn't true. We'd like you to confirm that that's not the bad news that we seem to adventure. From the rules of the back tell us that the problem is that the regulation has been done. So, if the problem is that, leave it as it is, because people are asking them — families and businesses — to leave it as it is. You're the ones who're reading everything trying to change a number of things -- they don't tell us which, now they say they're going back, they're making a mess of yourselves -- and people are really worried, people who have their industries and their livelihood on the coast. You're the ones who make the mess, then leave it as it is, and don't put so many jobs in danger. [[Applause]] And, by the way, the seventy-fifty families of Endesa, who give up all hope, blame is on Rajoy's cousin, that's what you came here to say. And hence, from there, chitton!, as you also said, there's nothing else to talk about, this has no remedy, the company is going to close, and it gives no alternative. That's what you came here to say. The problem is, like Rajoy's cousin said I don't know what, so Endesa has to close it. That's the summary, except you gave me another alternative. And we're going to Madrid to say that the Greek Agenda requires that this is not accepted and that all these families have a future. Mr Bará, for giving him the protagonist he deserves, says that the agreement of the BNG will pro us, I said. Look, look, because it's a missed opportunity, because you, who said you could condition the Government, had the opportunity to tie up a number of fundamental things -- another thing is that they later did them -- they completely ignored them, and the few that tied them up, a lot of things are a toast to the sun, because they've already taken care of their signatory partners and the other contracting party to start to disagree, lower it, give him a little bit of garbage, and finally leave him practically nothing. And I'll talk again about AP-9. From there, you probably had ten minutes and you've finished the arguments soon — I'm sorry to say — because if in ten minutes, when we're talking about something as important as the Greek Agenda, everything we need, take out Genoa, FAES, Vox — all the classics of the BNG when there's no arguments left, so, man, we're probably quite right about what we're telling you. Look, this show isn't about analyzing the BNG Welsh agenda, or much less. I'll tell you again: you're the reference right now, they've agreed with those who are ruling, and, well, I have to refer to that logically; and, therefore, we'll have to raise it up. If I had to analyze the covenant that you signed, I'd have plenty of time left for my first intervention, I can assure you, without any doubt. What's going on is that I have to speak on behalf of the Government of Galicia's board of things we're going to consider, and many of the things we're asking -- as the spokesperson of the People's Party said -- because, hey, it's time to pose them. It's just that a new government has just begun, that there are threats that have never occurred. It's because there are business closure threats, there are money that just blared us without any explanation to us and to all the autonomous communities, there are deadlines that you claimed for active and passive compliance and suddenly tell us that all this was a lie, that all this is not going to be fulfilled. So we have to go as the Government to ask the Central Government, the Socialist Government, its partners, that you have supported and put there, all these things. Of course it's time! And of course we have to say it!, including transfers and self-government. Look, for not going back — actually, we've been here for a few years now — I talked about transfers in 2009, and I'll tell you again that I picked up everything you left behind for negotiation. If you want, I'll tell you — but last water doesn't move at all — everything at that time or the other part of the Transfer Commission told me about its negotiation; in view is the result of what they have achieved. But you posed seventy and you had eight locks, some referring to 200 square feet of a place that they were given, and that's what there was about their seventy, that's what there was. And, therefore, we can start talking about the firmness that you've achieved. And then came Rajoy's government, and I've already said our opinion about it. Look, when one of the two parts wants to wake up and one of them says no, there's no transfer. And now they say they're opening them again; I hope with more firmness and more conviction and more willing to give Galicia the powers that Mr. Zapatero's government had between 2009 and 2011, which denied us everything while giving it to Catalonia and Andalusia, which at that time you governed it. We were completely closed by the tap, told us it was over, that everything was too badly thought out, that there was no time, that there would be elections a year and a half later...; finally, we were cut off. And now you're going to tell me that you're looking forward to this whole thing grow. Well, our duty will be to pose all those powers and say again that to see if this time we are able to continue to grow in the self-government of Galicia, yes, with our own identity. That's what you're getting that everything you can be and besides everything you give Euskadi and Catalonia, hey! no, we don't want to be spectators of what others do, we're going with our approach, we're going to say what we're interested in and the transfers they have to come here, we're not going to cross our arms. That's the importance that you give them in that transfer agreement too, that they don't even detail anything; what they give others and, if it may be, a little more, and that's the truth, Mr Bará. And this is what we would have to do if we followed that agreement that, I say, is a lot of sun-giving, lots of wet paper and a lot of loud silence about fundamental things. And, Mr. Villares, this is Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde. I explained: I'm here, opening a new stage, we're still ruling, we're developing, by the way, some budgets that we just approved. And our duty is, in view of this government that begins, to make our approaches and try to prevent many of the threats that are new, that seem incredible, but that are above the table, to Galicia. To you, frankly — I'm sorry to tell you — it seems that the least concern is what we claim. What worries him most, what troubles him most, what suits him most, as Mr Bará says, is that we complain, that we have an agenda of our own and that we ask for things. I suppose, if we weren't doing anything, you'd be saying, probably with a lot more reason, that it's incredible that the Joint Government isn't moving and not saying what Galicia needs. So we're very calm knowing that we're doing what we have to do, and if we're now making new approaches, it's because, as I told you, things are going on that have never happened. You at least talk, you don't do as Mr Bará, you don't avoid the subject, you don't go through with the refile, you completely avoid it, you talk about the debt of 370 million, in the pact and here in the rostrum. You talk about her and tell me -- I suppose because of her professional deformation -- that we have nothing to do legally. Listen, don't be more papist than the Pope. First of all, with all due respect for his professional qualifications, that's not what the Juridical Counsel of the Union says, and especially is not what the Government of Spain itself tells us, who told us a series of lies saying that it was not legally possible, then when the elections of November were approaching he began to say that yes, that only one part could be paid, then paid less than he had said and now suddenly tells us that by magic art the money disappeared without further explanation. The Spanish Government itself said yes, that it was possible, but now he said we were already out of date because he had to pay it when he said he couldn't pay it. So, man, don't you set up legal obstacles that you're not setting up even the Government itself. They don't pay because they don't want it, and this is the truth and this is what we have to try to change. I told Mrs. Chao they're working hard that they can't afford it. Hey! I wish it would be so and I hope it would be so; then, agree with the Block, which is saying we've gone right back, that we have to go right back. I know they won't agree, but they were the ones who put them there in the government, their vice president. They're all because a gentleman is saying we have to go through something that you say we don't have to go through because they're working. They agree at least on important issues. Stop being dizzy, that money's for social services, for education. We're cross-armed, hallucinated, saying "jeta go." Of course they have a lot of jets, because we see they don't even agree on what to do to get Galicia to come with that money. It's the least we can ask them; if they're working, tell us as soon as possible. And then they talk to the Block and see why he's telling us that we have to go through, because there's no other way. We want the money to be paid. We have all the roads open because we have no choice. We didn't have to be in this situation right now, we had to have that money now. And I therefore ask them to in such a serious matter, at least in this matter, there is some unanimity and some coherence of government. He was telling me, Mr. Villares, about the subject of demography. I talked about demography because it's a fundamental issue for us, and the evidence is that we just passed a bill on the board. We may not agree with some of the measures, you think there should be some and some that we include not and on the contrary. Well, at least we agree that it's a fundamental issue and I'm glad that we agree on it, because it's one of the great problems Galicia has right now. That's why it's incomprehensible that it doesn't appear in the worries of either the Socialist Party or the Galician Nationalist Block. I'm sorry, because I wanted to follow everything you thought and leave nothing behind, but I think the most important thing, what I wanted to insist on is that you don't make a counter-argumentation of something that the Government itself recognizes. Let's agree that they don't pay because they don't want it; the minister said it the other day. So if we're now beginning to say that there's actually difficulties, then we don't understand anything at all, and the bad thing and what people won't understand is that money won't come. And finally, Mrs Chao, I say, by following everything you said, look, with respect to the AVE, in which you stopped quite, more than others. If we started to do... no, it stopped, what happened in 2014, which was already known. [[Murmurs]] If you want, we started to look back when Mr. Abel Caballero told us that the AVE was going to be in 1993; then the successive socialist governments spoke of 1998, of 2004, of 2008, of 2012; then there were also delays on the part of the PP governments; now they have been told, at last, when we are at the end, that is therefore the more likely it is to be reached with the deadline, a certain deadline, that then moves again. I think the important thing and what interests us all, that we have the Xacobeo on it, is to know when the AVE will be working. If everything is to look back, now that you're in the Government of Spain, if everything is to say it happened, hear!, there's a lot more history to put them on top of those who rule with you, their partners in the Central Government, than the People's Party itself. So let's try to be a little positive. Talk to your friends — I don't know any of those friends you say, you know a lot of friends in the government, you talk to them and they solve that. Just like solving the 370 million. They do a favor to Galicia, prove they're useful in the government and stop looking back, and if you put it off, it's good, because that's a way of understanding what's going on and solving problems. That would be a good thing. And with regard to the judges of gender-based violence, of course there was an agreement from the Galician Parliament. This is a very important issue for us, of course I have transferred it and you know what the President of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia said, with certainly well-founded arguments, regarding the need to make another structure, create them, yes, but with another structure. I suppose what the President of the High Court of Justice says to you, what the judiciary generally tells you, is worth the opinion that they've already expressed in recent years as a major institutional mess. Judiciary is not a power in respect of what you have to have a lot of respect for, and if you don't like what you do or what you say, because what you have to do is disqualify it and say the things you said. I guess that's what you'll say, too, but I think what a responsible government has to do is move all of this and they've told us what I just exposed and, if you like, I don't have it here but I leave you a role as you have left me, where statements in the media of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia are collected in this regard. Finally, ladies and gentlemen - and I have one more turn - I insist again: you can each have your opinion on whether the claims we make are urgent or not, priority or non-priority. I think we made a great effort, as the spokesperson of the People's Party of Galicia said, to gather before the elections, which I think was the time to do so, the claims that we were going to make govern who had, and the logic, the normal, and I think the most useful for the people who put us here is that we have a certain unity to claim them. To ignore absolutely, to say that it's already being solved on the one hand, on the other hand we have to go through, to say that we have to stop crying and apparently I don't know that, that solves a few problems. We have clear priorities. First of all, what has to do with the debt, 370 million that have blared us; the second, transfer of AP-9; and, from there, a lot of complaints; and why not?, Mr. Bará, grow in self-government. If we are able to agree on all this, when we have to agree, which is now, at the beginning of legislation, I think the Government will be fulfilling its role and opposition — and so I hope — as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u183	Thank you very much, Vice President. We opened a round of clarifications. For the Mixed Group, Mr. Villares Naveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Before starting with this intervention, I wanted to collectively bless not only the neighbourhood of Touro-O Pino, but all the citizenship of Galicia through that folder given to the Touro mine, which means a citizen victory without palliatives in defense of life, in defense of water, in defense of the environment, of the territory, of the natural landscape, but also of the economy, employment and heritage, particularly with regard to the Way of Santiago, to which the Vice President of the Board of Galicia has just referred. It was absolutely unacceptable that at the gates of Xacobeo there was a mining permit which also destroyed heritageally and parasitically the pit of the golden eggs to which the Council of Galicia ordered its entire economic strategy. Having said this and with regard to the few questions you have answered from my intervention, you say that we don't seem to care that you claim it. No, we're concerned about their crocodile tears, because if the Government is the same and the legislation is the same, because of course, there was a sense of vote against before, and now it's going to be in favour of the reinforcement of self-government, of the demand for our economic capacity, of commitment to investments, etc., etc., of course, because something is happening, because they're the same actors, it's the same legislation and it's the same Government. So what we're concerned about is the tears of crocodiles. Of course, they say we do this because new things have happened. Here the only new thing that should be able to happen and that would be worthy of celebration would be that you would believe in self-government and therefore strongly believe that improvement, first, of the economic conditions of self-government was essential for the provision of fundamental rights, something that they should not consider throughout the whole time that governed Mariano Rajoy throughout the ominous decade of Nuñez Feijóo, something that didn't happen until this moment nor with regard to transfers, where they were with their mouth shut. Not only with your mouth shut, because it could be true what you say: no, we wanted more transfers and the Spanish Government said no; that could happen. But then, in that case, you had no reason to vote against the assumption of new powers here as it was also claimed since the opposition and yet they voted against it. That's part of a political conviction from the majority group that supports you. So that has nothing to do with the position against the State Government but with the position against the best self-government in Galicia, which resides in its Government, which resides in its speech. As for the EVV and what it is and what it is not legally possible, you left without answering a question, and that is why you voted against a legislative reform that we propose would undoubtedly benefit, no doubt, because you referred explicitly to this, among other things to the concept of the EVV payment. Why did they do it?, ah!, risking to suffer afterwards still a defeat in the courts. Well, there you are. As far as demography is concerned, they have also forgotten to say that it is necessary to reform the local funding law, and you know that it is perfectly clear that the criteria that currently set this state-of-the-art law are completely detrimental to us when we have sufficient resources for the provision of basic services to keep the territory inhabited. And that, of course, means even more condemnation to the municipalities around our country. And also about demography I don't forget to tell you anything else: everyone has to do their part; you, yours; so we also make reference to the concrete measures that you left out; we'll see if it's possible to reach some agreement in the process of the bill, but I'm afraid not. What should contain an agenda to be a real country political agenda, not a party but a country agenda? You do not represent here at this time, because you represent the institution, and therefore the agenda must be a multi-national and democratic agenda to broaden freedoms within the framework of self-government and within the constitutional framework itself. Within Title VII of the Constitution is yet to develop the deepening of the democratic state at the level of judicial power completely, for example, something which is also collected in the Statute of Self-Government and which you do not refer to. Because the issue of gender-based violence jury is a different subject. We're talking about the full autonomous co-responsibility of the judiciary. Also at the communicative level is the role of Spanish Radiotelevision in the dissemination of our language and culture or also of the Cervantes Institute for the dissemination of Galician language or the strengthening of the presence of self-government institutions, of the Greek institutions and of the Greek Government also in the European negotiating space in matters that are of our interest, and strengthening that situation. You referred to this at the beginning of everything in your first intervention, but you forgot to say that this is part of or should also be part of a claim, something which also in democratic matters should be accompanied by turning the Senate into a true chamber of territorial representation, something in which we, as a nationality, within the state, constitutionally recognized, should especially affect. An agenda that should also be called into question the main emergencies in our country, in our opinion, first of all the feminist agenda, and here we could make a series of claims which, being the State's own competence, affect Galician citizenship, to begin the prohibition by law not only of women's wage discrimination in labour relations, but rather the establishment of sufficient material means to ensure that this prohibition is not wet paper, or the budgeting sufficient to provide the gender violence pact...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u185	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u186	...—Yes, I'm going to finish now—because it's a real emergency. Just as in the social agenda the need for the establishment of a universal basic income or the demerchantization of certain goods that are being done in business; we think that it cannot be done because they serve to satisfy fundamental rights...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u187	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u188	...as is the case with health, etc. Or a program that deepens in a tax case that allows us to obtain sufficient resources from the people who have the most and the corporations that have the most and so can have social rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u189	Thank you very much. For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado Cores has the floor. Excuse me, Mr. Bará. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He wasn't pointed at the replica of the change. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u190	Well, Mr. Rueda, the truth is you can't change what happened and you've dedicated more than half of your intervention to talking about the BNG deal. And now he said he was a reference or was he -- like he said? - a reference. Now, look, the summary of your intervention is -- the subconscious -- it's a good deal, but it's not being done. So that's the summary of what you said here: see if it's not done, because it's really very good and you can benefit and get performance. Look, this deal is not to get BNG performance, this is an agreement to make our country, Galicia, that's going to benefit when we get all this, but you have to say which side they are on, whether they're going to side these agreements to carry them out or if they're going to put poles on the wheels. [[Applause]] This is an agreement that you tried here to distort and say that there were no things, where, look, twelve great areas appear. The first, the ability to decide and self-government, the call of the Joint Commission for Pending Transfers, Mr. Rueda, those you said in 2009 that was going to be the prodigious decade and they didn't get anything. We're just focusing on the ball, they just have to finish, if they want us to go with you to the Joint Commission to help them do the work and to middle up there if they have problems of dialogue with the Government, with the Socialist Party, what else do you want us to do? Secondly, even status for Galicia and historical nationalities — if you like, we call them like that — the nations of the State, Euskadi and Catalonia. The transfer theme goes to the first point. Here we are talking about the same political status, because indeed, as Mr Puy says, there is a democratic crisis, in which there is a great deal to see the People's Party, whitening ultra-rightness and fascism, and also a territorial crisis. And this has to be reformed, wherever it is. Third, support for the English language. Nor did you speak the English language here. For it is also in the pact to increase the use of the Greek language by the State Peripheral Administration. There are the infrastructures, of course, the AP-9, the railway, the sanitation of the rivers. There's a fair energy transition, Mr. Rueda, with territorial compensation. There's the statute for electro-intensive companies. There's the Welsh industrial agenda, the naval, the Vigo naval, the Ferrol naval, is Alcoa. It's the amendment of the comprehensive act of gender violence, among other things, so that we have in Galicia judges of gender violence in Santiago, Lugo or Ourense; there's also this. There is also the payment of what the State owes us in relation to dependency, 50%. It's also ending the double taxation of returned emigrants. It's reducing the replacement rates. There's tariff compensation for surplus power communities. It is ultimately to put an end to that regression of rights and freedoms that you committed when you ruled. And there are also the agreements we take here, the positions we take with regard to funding. There's no doubt about BNG's position in this respect, let's make it clear, taking along many agreements here, and others that you didn't want to support. Of course, the 198 million claim of the 2017 VAT debt, which is just part of all the debt that the State has with Galicia, by the way. And the BNG made a concrete proposal: the complaint by the court, and you have repeatedly voted against it, Mr Rueda. Stop hiding, stop posing, stop putting on the other cheek and claim debt through the court. And the basic problem here is that another financing model is needed. We've already said what our proposal was. In any case, we need to reform what is, yes or yes, and I remind you that it has expired since 2014 and you see it coming, because you couldn't change it; they ruled in the state and ruled in Galicia. And the same with regard to the debt of dependency, which you also voted against in this parliament. Look, with regard to AVE, we have already discussed here the responsibilities of this real shame of the delay in construction, in which the People's Party as much responsibility as the Socialist Party has. But I would like to ask Mr. Puy a question in this section, because today we were surprised that the Galician Economic Forum said that there was no need to build an AVE, that there were no high-capacity pathways and that there was no need to continue with the construction of the AVE in which it was missing. I don't know if you have personality unfolding here too, but you understand that you are a member of the Forum -- at least on the website you appear there, you should say that you change it -- and I would also like you to pronounce yourself according to these positions of the Galician Economic Forum. And, Mr. Rueda, you said that the BNG pact was a reference, and do you want it to be fulfilled?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u191	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u192	Tell the truth: do you want it to be bought? Because you're implicitly saying that the AP-9 agreement is fantastic but it's not going to be fulfilled. Do you want it to be true, or do you prefer it to be what you've done by 25%, or is it better the 100% bonus, the total freeness? Will you support this proposal...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u193	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u194	...or will they put sticks on the wheels? So leave the epistoll genre, get to work. You're not the post office, you're the government of this country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u195	Thank you very much. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u196	They get to work, therefore.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u197	Thank you very much. For the Joint Left Group, you have the floor to Mrs. Chao Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u198	Look, the person claiming the Welsh Agenda was Yolanda Díaz, now Minister of Labour in 2017, a year before Ana Pontón. So check out maternity, it's published. Mr. Puy, a second clarification, said that there was a clear ideological rotation in this government. Of course we did, we agreed, I told you before. He made this government more for the well-being of Galician citizenship in fifteen days than you in ten years of ruling. The priorities of this government are, of course, different. You have frozen pensions, approved a real counter-reform of work, very damaging to the workers and workers in this country, which has extended precariously as never before; at the same time, the corporate benefits have not ceased to grow, extreme poverty has also spread as never before; today even the UN rapporteur warns you; they were unbearable figures that he weighs on his Government. And, of course, the coalition government priorities are different. Our goal is another, the millions of voters who supported this government were precisely saying that we had to abandon this path, that people, first. Mr. Rueda, you understand the appearance is you, and you said you were going to answer our questions and you didn't. He didn't say anything about the other figures of millions that we put on the table about which we had questions, because it's a step away from turning Madrid's into clothes, but he hasn't answered at all anything about his position about the 516 million euros that cost us the financial management of the Galician Union. What opinion does he deserve? Can you explain how many hospital beds this loss is?, how many old residence squares? How many childhood classes have we lost because you didn't want to go to the supplementary funding system? How could your Government have been so irresponsible to make us pay such a high bill? Why does the sovereignty of the People's Party always cost us so much? 516 million euros, and that's why you don't say anything. What do you have to say about the 438 million euros from AVE? Because you said this is archaeology. No sir, it's asking you for specific figures, we're not looking at so many years ago, Ana Pastor was a minister in 2016, it was practically yesterday. Have you ever been called to ask for an account? Have you ever been asked to explain yourself? Do you understand that we are fed up with the enormous cost of the People's Party's Dismans for citizenship? Can you tell us what you did, what claims they made in the long years of the People's Party government in the state? How could it have been the ministers of the People's Party who once and for all forgot the budgetary commitments, the infrastructure commitments with the Galician Union and you were quiet, even though they were ruling here and there, and they were supposed to have a totally fluid dialogue? How do you explain Mr Feijó's repeated lies in this matter? Where's the AVE going to pay with board budgets? Moreover, can you tell us what responsibility you have in dismantling the proximity train your party? These are very specific questions, which we asked him and of which he didn't say anything at all, but he insisted on AP-9, so without any noise. You get up here without any noise and forget that you've been sitting there seven times against lowering AP-9 fees, seven times; I have here the initiatives, and if you don't wake up, you can read them later, seven times. He didn't answer either a very specific question: AP-9, free or business for the friends?, a business that sold the People's Party. Explain it, it's a concrete question. And allow me another: how many letters did the president of the board send when the ministers were from the People's Party? How many letters did you send? Do you think this is the usual channel to relate to government? And another thing about letters: why didn't you bring them to this parliament first? If you wanted some consensus on a Welsh agenda, wouldn't it be normal to come and talk first, find out what consensus was and then send those love cards? I'd be promoting the debate, I'd be promoting the agreement. But that's not what he was interested in. You've been threatening the courts since day one, because you don't care about anything but cheap electoralism. They despise parliamentaryism and ignore the very foundations of democracy. That's why I can't admit that citizenship has put them in opposition. Well, they get used to it, because just like the role you've played today, you're going to have to test it a lot, which is what's closest to you. He talked about ports, which is important, but he didn't explain how it's possible that if it's so important the Galician Union had left without running 6 million euros in this matter in the last year, or why he doesn't explain that it's one of the most cutouts in the budgets they approved two months ago. He talked about the execution of the Feder funds, and this is already a real nightmare, because he says: the government of the state executed 50%, but that of the Galician board executed 25%, 25% of the Feder funds at R+D+i. But you don't say anything about this either. He only talks about the subjects of the State when he thinks he can get cut, but not on issues that may concern citizenship. And look, we're very interested in them -- because they want to talk about the positions of the state -- what is their position, what is the position of the People's Party with respect to the offensive of the far right with education. I'm telling you, we don't know your letters, but we invite you to write two more, two cards where you have our backup. A first letter to the minister of education, in which he tells you that the Galician People's Party will be on the path of dialogue, against the parental pin, against censorship...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u199	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u200	...in favour of dialogue, an education that blinds rights to all people, which will not encourage persecution and emotional-sexual education. And that, finally, send another one to Mr. Married and say that you, those who deny women's rights, the rights of the LGTBI people, the immigrants, don't want to know anything at all. If you write those letters, Mr. Rueda, you will have our support.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u201	Thank you very much, Mrs. Chao Pérez. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr Álvarez Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u202	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In order to intervene, let me first refer to Mr. Puy in his speech. You're going through an autonomist robbery, now they're calling for transfers to the state. When the Socialist Parliamentary Group took an initiative to claim a transfer restriction, you voted against it, just as it did with the downside of the AP-9 fees from state budgets, which you now demand. And it makes me funny, not to say that it hurts me personally and professionally, that you are now asking for a state education pact. Will it be necessary to remember in this chamber that Minister Gabilondo was about to get an education state pact and that the defender — politically, not because she had been thrown out of a window — did Mrs Cospedal prevent at that time from signing that state pact because there were elections? No, no, no, reality is like that. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] And in health care, after this government has approved the broadest MIR in history, you come to question the government's commitment to health. What are we gonna do to him! And now it turns out you already know that government budgets are going to be harmful to Galicia. What a power of guessing, what a prospective ability you have! The truth is, it's giving me a certain envy. I wish I had half the intuition that you assume. And of course, of course, this Galician Agenda was passed before the November elections, because of course you knew it was impossible for them to rule in the State, and therefore they knew very well who they had to demand these realities. [[Applause]] And, Mr. Rueda, why do you suppose the Government of the State is going to breach the pacts that came with different forces? Don't you think Mr. Sánchez's government will do the same as Mr. Rajoy's government did, who did the opposite of what he said he was going to do? We don't all rule the same, Mr. Rueda, and you're talking about agreements with hidden letters. Covenants with hidden letters are the ones you had ahead of you, with partners of these government pacts, for example, with the parental pin — the parental veto ultimately, because you have to call things by their name, it's a true veto, and the pin's is a technological terminology that is much more lax than reality, which is much more sad—, on this parental veto the People's Party says that in the case of Murcia if he was and Citizens say he wasn't. So you must also have some tradition in signing agreements hidden with some political force. Look, the Government of the State is already working to solve the problems of AP-9, AVE-9, VE — which seems to be a workaround — of the electro-intensive industries and also of the problems of the Bridges. Question: What did the Galician Union do in industrial policy during these years of Mr. Feijóo's government? Nothing, actually nothing solvent. And with regard to the Law of Back, to make it clear, this parliamentary group, the Socialist Party of Galicia, with particular respect to the Law of Back, will transfer to the Government of Spain the need to take into account the special relationship Galicia has with the sea and therefore the need to make compatible the preservation of the coast and the landscape with the maintenance of jobs and activity on the shoreline. It will demand the application of the current legislation with as much flexibility as possible to facilitate the development of activities — I repeat — compatible with the protection of the coast and will demand that any future regulatory changes affecting the Law of Back and its regulation be made through a broad dialogue with the representatives of the sectors. [[Murmurs.]] In short, Mr. Rueda, of his appearance it is meridianly clear that Mr. Feijóo is not responsible for anything, everything is Mr. Sánchez' fault. But it also remains meridionally clear, by the reality that the polls give, that no one already believes in their lies. Because there is a majority of Welshmen who have supported a government that is now presided over by Mr. Sánchez, aware of the exhaustion of Mr. Feijóo's government, which is in itself a problem for Galicia. And they know it's important to bet on a government that prioritizes people, social policies, policies that bet on equality, women, social justice, sustainable development...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u203	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u204	...and, ultimately, for a better and unresigned world, which is the future that you want and not the future that you can offer. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u205	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Puy Fraga has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u206	Thank you, Mr. President. Sometimes it's good to have a data, a reference; the data is hardly questionable. As you know, we started legislation at the end of 2016, we approved budgets, parliamentary activity started in 2017, the motion of censure was in 2018, and we are in 2020. Therefore, the year and a half of Mr. Rajoy's Government of activity in this chamber, year and a half of Mr. Sánchez's Government of activity in this chamber. Well, this chamber approved petitions to the Government of Spain presided over by Rajoy in that year and a half, 64 initiatives, by the way, most of them unanimously. Since Mr. Sánchez ruled, we've approved 40, 40! [[Murmurs.]] Do you know what the difference is?: that we support that — when there is a claim for Galicia, it doesn't matter who governs — and you don't. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] The test? Again, I'll give it to her again. Do you know how many initiatives socialists registered when Mr. Rajoy ruled to urge the Government of Spain to do something? 352. Since Mr. Sánchez ruled, 42. I understand. [[Murmurs.]] I engage in a party of those who contribute to making politics consistent in the whole state and in the whole of Europe, just like you — or at least that's what some of us thought about the PSOE. I understand that there are relationships that are not public and that are done internally. I'm very glad you're already entering that dynamic with the Rule of the Law on your back, to see if we've got something, because we've been saying it for a long time. And it was you who removed the demand and stacked on a suit that affected the Law of the Back and those who put in the new interpretation. To see the Socialist Party's weight in defending the specificities of the Galician coast. Let's see him. [[Murmurs.]] The IVE theme. Well, Mr. Villares isn't, he's the same. Home!, to say that with a law that would be the procedure in Madrid there would be a problem that the minister today said the Government would reiterate that it will not return the 2,500 million EV of 2017 to the communities because that amount does not exist, well, because trying to solve it with a law or with dialogue, as said the lady representative of the Joint Left Group, because it is a little funny. No one complained when the VE information system was approved. Why? Because it's good to fight fraud and what we had to do was have it fixed. When? If eleven monthly payments are made in 2017, twelve monthly payments are made in 2019; the remaining 2017 monthly payments are made in 2019, that is what marks the law. And what happens is they didn't want to pay. What difference is it? The difference is that we ask for it and there are socialist leaders to ask for it, like Mr. Paje, and here what we have is a socialist group that loves everything they command from Madrid, everything!, and among that 200 million euros. [[Applause]] We believe in self-government, to which we have contributed, not only as the vice-president said, but the party that brought all the important competences to Galicia, without any exception, because it touched us to govern, but the fact is that during this last time we have achieved something, for example, to maintain Galicia's financial autonomy, not to be intervened by the Government of Spain, because we have faithfully complied with the rules. You know what the difference is, talking about autonomy? It's that Rajoy's government, when a community had problems, made loans to pay the suppliers, put on a system for which they paid no interest and allowed them to have money because the markets were closed. And Mr. Sánchez, instead of lending uninterested money to the autonomous communities, what he's doing is getting them out, what he's doing is taking away 200 million euros. Look at Mr. Sánchez's autonomist! Well, between a government president who helps the autonomous communities financially and another who takes them out of their money, you'll understand that I'm clear who's an autonomist and who's talking about yawning. I have it very clearly. [[Applause]] With regard to Mr. Bará, let me tell you that you, who are flowered in the use of metaphors, in that "those who gather the nuts in Madrid" would not recommend it, so it symbolizes exactly that. I remind you of what context it was said, "We move the tree and others collect the nuts." It's not good for them, don't do it, I'll tell him to take note. And, well, you're asking us to put a price on the government that they just supported for the 200 million Euros of the VAT. Is that what they trust? I would tell them one thing: Mr. Sánchez has deceived a lot of people, and has deceived, to begin with, his electorate, who said he would never make a deal with Mr. Torres and is meeting with him even though he is disabled by a court sentence. Well, you may not have fooled them; now, if the resource they have to pay for Mr. Sánchez is to go to the lawyers, they're going to look for a good law firm. At the entrance, they said that in fifteen days they would have the first meeting to see the follow-up to the pact; yes, but it was already past twenty and, as I know, there was no meeting. [[Murmurs.]] I would also briefly like to say again the fallacy that we are not paid by the EVI because it has not supported the People's Party, which they have just launched from the Government, with a motion of censure with a new majority, and that we are charged with not giving us the millions and that budgets have not been approved. It'll be yours, they didn't keep most of it. It will be of the Republican Left, with whom they voted the motion of censure, and which later did not support their budgets. But I don't know if Mrs Chao remembers that it wasn't the PP who voted against the budgets, there was a member of her group, of the Tide Group in Congress, who obeyed the instructions she had given her committee of management of the Galician Seas so that she wouldn't vote the budgets because they were harmful to Galicia, and those who disobeyed their national leadership were those who voted the budgets, even though they were bad for Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] You know who they are with, those who voted for Galicia also know where they are, we see how you treat people who defend Galicia in your group. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Say the Government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u207	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u208	...from Galicia is responsible for not paying what the state owes it is like going to a sports society that did not receive a payment from the board and saying that it is the fault of the sports society, or of the sports federation, or of the community of neighbors. Mr Álvarez, today there is an article in the press about who spoke from the Socialist Group and helped understand the situation in which we are. He literally says, "Abalos' visit shows a lack of interest in the pending affairs of his ministry in the Coruña." E says: "The Government needs to release resources to meet the commitments it has made in the investment process. The Galician demands, with the pointed salvation of the AVE, will have to wait. Against the apparent logic — there are elections in Galicia this year — it is chosen to demand the absolute submission of the Galician socialists to the needs of the Government, which, of course, looks at other territories." This said by Mr. Méndez Romeo. And if we don't understand that this is the situation, we don't understand the importance of... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u209	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u210	...all Parliament is behind Galicia's demands. The German Agenda has been voted on in this chamber, we'll bring it to the next plenary session, we'll see exactly which side you are on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u211	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Close this meeting, Vice-President and Chairlor, Public Administration and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u212	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, how can anyone suppose Mr. Sánchez isn't going to fulfill what he said he was going to do? Or how can anyone claim that Mr. Sánchez can do something he said he would never do? [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Álvarez, are you asking me this question seriously? Really, are you asking me this question seriously? [[Murmurs.]] It's just... really! [[Laughter]] Unless it's the Sánchez you've known here for three weeks, the previous one has removed him in his previous intervention. [[Applause]] Well, let's give him a chance. [[Applause]] Of course, if we go to the previous eighteen months, it's almost like he's been ruling, this question can't really ask me. [[Murmurs.]] Look, on the back regulation, I'm glad you realize that you have to solve a problem that you yourself have created. What I'm sorry is that it took them so long to realize that so many people had to be for so long, so many months, worried about how you said cheerfully they were going to modify a number of things and how they put so many families and so many companies at risk. [[Murmurs.]] In the end, we realize — welcome to realize — that problems have to be solved, that governments are going to solve problems. Tell your comrades in Madrid that they created a problem here and that they have to solve it. There you will find the Galician Union without any doubt, you will see as you do. And finally, look, then he's gone to the parental pin, and so on. That's not on the Greek Agenda; we're talking about the Greek Agenda and it's gone without arguments. With which, little more I can answer. [[Murmurs.]] And, Mr. Bará, you were going to pull this thing out and that's why I pulled it out. He's a referee of a missed opportunity. They take advantage of their influence, of which they boast so much in Madrid, to be useful, and we will celebrate it. But be consistent too. You can't tell me that in order to get the ministers to listen to us at the time of the transfers take you, I'll see how they listen to you, and at the same time, tell me that, to pay us the 370 million, we have to put a resource because you don't even give them a chance. You can agree on one thing or another: if you listen to them, they pay attention to them for everything and, if not, they don't care for them at all. This money is very important. And it's not to be accepted that you don't even name it and that you send us directly a resource in which you say this is none of your business, that it's a problem -- it seems to be -- of the Government of Galicia and it's not a problem of the Greeks. It's a problem for the Greeks, it's a lot of money; it's a significant percentage of the income budget that suddenly disappeared, and that we need. And we're going to go on, of course, until we get it, until they give us a solution. And they'll have to give us a solution. And don't trust yourself too much. Look back every time BNG has trusted the Socialist Party and what has happened many times; in terms of AVE, in investments... in so many things they've been told. You say, no, no, everything we wake up goes to Mass. You said so. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, we'll see you in very little time. For now, it's going on time, it's going on days, it's going on weeks, you've set very short deadlines and you don't know anything at all. Man, or sending letters. Mrs. Luca Chao asked me if we think it's a good sample to send letters. You said — in no obvious disrespect — letters of love to the ministers. I'll tell you what. Twenty-two shots, never. Never had to send so many; now yes. You force us to command them because they are many ministers and many vice-presidents, and we are going to try and listen to Galicia's voice and demands in all those where necessary — which is practically at all. That's where we'll start, of course, and then we'll follow. That's why I came to this parliament, so I wanted to raise all these demands, so we have a Greek Agenda, and that's why we're asking for the collaboration of the whole world. By the way, thank you, Mr. Villares. You made contributions. We may agree more or less on your priority, on your convenience, but in the end, it's about putting priorities, which is what I've come to ask for here in the name of the Government of Galicia. Don't bother them so much! It seems the problem is that the Galician Union wants to pose to a government that starts its march a series of claims that we believe are urgent and necessary. This, I think, should look good to everyone. They can discuss priority, the urgency of each other, but I think they're all necessary. I hope they don't discuss the absolute priority that the money they took from us and start talking about the AP-9 transfer. Mrs. Chao asked me whether we agreed on the bonuses or not. Hey, I agree, I told you. It's just that if it's free, like they tell us it's gonna be, perfect! But they're already beginning to say the obvious: that it wasn't; that everything they said would be, in three weeks it's already falling. Like the deadlines of AVE, like the electrointensives, like so many things. That's why we have to be especially incisive. That's why I'm here asking for Parliament's cooperation. I wish we had it, because people are seeing us and people are seeing the expectations they create every time they run a government. And we, of course, are going to be quite clear. There are twenty-five fundamental demands, twenty-five needs, twenty-five factors in which Galicia plays its future and, right now, its present, in some cases very urgently. So we're going to work to do it and we're going to consider it. As a government, we do our duty, and I hope that you as an opposition will do the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u213	Thank you, Vice President. We move on to point 4 of the agenda, non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the measures in relation to the damage caused by the barbarian
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u214	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the non-law proposal, Mr. Pérez Seco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u215	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I would like to begin by greeting the promoters of this initiative, who today accompany us from the rostrum. Today we are defending a non-law proposal promoted by the UPA Agricultural Unions Organization, in the wake of legislation and with the support of more than six thousand four hundred signatures by farmers and farmers, farmers and farmers, of those who today are spokesmen; six thousand four hundred signatures that were collected in just over two weeks and that would certainly be much more if this organization did not exhaust the deadline for the submission of signatures. We are all aware of the problem that is generating the current uncontrollability of the boar in Galicia. We are talking about a problem that affects, above all, farmers and farmers. Many of them were present today at a concentration outside Parliament and are the best witnesses of the damage caused by wild fauna, the best witnesses of the damage caused by the boar. The boar produces a negative stability character, with effects and damage to all of us who are still known not only to remain in the rural of Galicia, because the problem has already reached the urban centers. The damage to the boar is numerous. On the one hand, they produce a huge increase in costs for agricultural and professional holdings; costs that not only affect crops, but also the various facilities: conventional and electrical closures, etc. It's the crops and crops that suffer the most from the consequences of this uncontrollable wildlife. They're mostly corn, with 55% affected, and the meadows, with 35% affected surface. The remaining 10 % is divided between orchards and other productions and crops, such as vines or chestnuts. These set of damage should be added to the cease-fired profit of abandoned lands, which cease to grow out of fear of the damage to the boar, lands that usually work those landowners and landowners or farmers and farmers who dedicate themselves to traditional crops, and also all those who can be included as part-time farmers. The work done by this latter collective is difficult to quantify in monetary terms, but that is not why we can forget about its tremendous environmental work. They avoid, on the one hand, the abandonment of the earth, preventing everything from going uphill and, on the other hand, doing a very good job in the prevention of fires, work that has never been rewarded. The continuing damage caused by the population of the boar in the Greek field reaches worrying figures, reaches serious economic problems for the entire agricultural sector. According to a report by the Agricultural Unions, the promoter of this initiative, the damage of xabaril in the Galician agriculture reaches a value close to 15 million euros; 15 million euros which translate into thirty-three thousand six hundred euros as an average for each Greek tecor, which are not responsible for this situation, but can be part of the solution. 15 million euros that would have to assume — and hence the question — the Council of Galicia as responsible administration. And, from there, the question that many of these farmers and farmers ask: will you be able to assume the Galician Board compensations like this year after year? The damage caused by the barbarian — as I have already indicated — is not only left in the countryside; even now the barbarian invades urban nuclei. It is common to encounter damage in public goods and damage in gardening and sports areas, and it is even causing a serious problem of road safety. The boar causes an average of seven accidents a day. Hundreds of Jabaris cross roads and rural roads, causing numerous accidents and significant damage to vehicles, which brings with them an increase in insurance premiums for all those who want to ensure in their policies this risk that may cause the boar. We are therefore faced with a worrying and even alarming situation; a situation that highlights the current failure of the Jabaril population management system in Galicia. We found ourselves with a totally uncontrolled boar population; we found ourselves with a lack of control in the management of the wild fauna by the Galician Union. The management of wild fauna is directly dependent on the Galician Union, specifically the Environmental Council. I mean, it's the Council that has the powers to put all those measures that it considers effective to curb this lack of control of the populations. To this day, the Council has adopted four measures with the aim of keeping the boar under control: first, to authorize strikes with archers; second, the installation of cages; third, to market their meat; and fourth, the free hunting, which affects thirty-three municipalities of four different districts. This agreement was adopted through the publication of a Resolution of 23 September 2019 of the Directorate-General for Heritage. The publication of this resolution must be acknowledged to have marked an important milestone. It was at this point when the Council began to deny that there really exists a problem with the population of the boar in Galicia. At this point, the Council now recognizes that there is a problem that it previously denied; it begins to amend itself and recognizes what many and many of us have come demanding. All the opposition groups in this chamber were warning that measures had to be put in place to try to control these populations. We all demand solutions, and they've always ignored us. They have always tried to make this problem less important. [[Applause]] Now, late, evil and drag, they are forced to take action; measures resulting from improvisation, which do not solve the problem and which are characterized by passing the responsibility of this problem to the tecores, which have not been or are responsible for the current situation. The Council, by adopting these kinds of occurrences, what you're trying to do is get through the problem; that is, you invite but you don't pay. This improvised measure, free hunting, is not the solution. We need to address the problem, we need to take serious action; we cannot continue to take this problem lightly. In addition to the above, and according to the Agricultural Unions, the uncontrolled population of the boar, along with the damage it causes, can also bring with it another serious problem, such as the spread of African swine fever, since the boar are potential transmitters of this disease that threatens the pigmeat sector. Since it is therefore crucial for Galicia to continue to keep the pig house free from disease; it is crucial not to spare resources in providing what is betting on food security; it is crucial to bet on the proper functioning of this important economic sector. I want to remind you that when you ruled the Bipartite, that government of which you so much liked to talk about -- now you talk about another government -- you put in place a plan to manage the wolf, which we believe should be reviewed. The Council should lead the problem of jabaril, taking into account the current problem, and propose effective control solutions that allow a balanced and sustainable coexistence of this animal species with other species and with economic, social and environmental activities around us. The aim of this initiative is to harmonise the co-existence of the population of jabaris and the conservation of this species, with a live rural and agricultural and livestock activity, with the safety of road traffic and with the environmental balance of the natural ecosystems of Greece, where a disorderly proliferation of this species endangers. For all this, the Agrarian Union asks: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to promote a change in the current legal framework for hunting and wildlife management in Galicia so that the Galician Union directly assumes the following responsibilities: First, the elaboration of a population census of boar in Galicia. Second, the determination of the maximum xabaril density that may exist in each area, with objective scientific and technical criteria depending on the level of damage caused in crops, the risk of traffic accidents and the risk of spread of animal transmission diseases to the gander hut. Third, the determination of control measures for the Jabari population. Fourth, the determination of measures to control damage in agriculture and the support of its execution in tecores and hunting societies. Fifth, the payment of compensation for damage caused by the action of wild fauna on the heritage of farmers and farmers, both professionals and part-time workers. And sixth, the establishment of a co-responsibility fund which is economically sufficient for the payment of compensation for damages and preventive measures." I shall conclude by requesting the support of all groups for this initiative. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u216	Thank you, Mr. Pérez Seco. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Rodríguez Estévez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u217	Thank you, President. Welcome also to the people of Agrarian Unions who accompany us today! Mr. Seco said — and I was saying well — that the boar has been a serious problem for our crops for many years and a serious problem for our road safety. Only in 2018 was he responsible for about a thousand hundred traffic accidents and caused significant economic damage that affected, above all, corn, potato or chestnut crops, among many others. The abandonment of the mountain and the land of labor — the abandonment of a guilty person — is causing the natural habitat of the bug to overflow, so that we find it often walking through big villages or cities. In 2018, Junta de Galicia received 1,335 warnings for damage caused by baris, almost four notices a day. These are two hundred sixty-five warnings more than in 2017. The main harm caused by the activity of the Jabaris is the peasants or peasants, the peasants or the livestock, who, in addition to suffering the attacks of the animal, in many cases suffer from the incompetence of the Government of the Union in the management of this plague. On 9 October last year, the DOG issued four resolutions on 27 September of the territorial heads of the Environmental Council, of a declaration of cinematic emergency, which affects thirty-three municipalities of Galicia. We met with the Association of Tecore holders of Galicia, with agricultural organizations, with the Labrego Union and with Agricultural Unions, and they moved us their inconformity with the measures of the Union, which authorized the hunts indiscriminately, and their appreciation for our request in this parliament, together with the Galego Nationalist Block, that non-permanent study commission on the very problem of the shabaril. And they were concerned, because the consequences of these measures today pose a very high risk to the safety of people who pass through the areas affected by this rule — we are talking about more than 400,80,000 hectares — as well as for other types of recreational and even road traffic activities in these areas. There are many experts who see in this justification this statement an alleged ongoing failure to comply with the specific legislation. Thus, this statement was based on the fact that the populations of jabaril have experienced an increase in the territory as a whole in recent years, as well as that these populations can be an important disturbing element of certain communities of flora and fauna. We wondered who put that pressure on the People's Party or the Government of Galicia to take this measure out, or whether it was just a communication strategy of the Galician Union itself in the face of the inability to solve a real problem. We asked where are those scientific studies on the demographic data of the boar. At the Galician Summit — we have asked several times in committee — they do not have them, nor do they have the technical reports that recommend such a measure. You have declared this emergency in the face of the Board's inability to manage this problem and manage the aid, which often have to be adequate to address the damage caused by the barbarian. The beneficiaries and beneficiaries begin to receive the aid resolutions for the implementation of preventive measures in the face of the attack of the boar or the wolf. The resolution leaves, at best, ten natural days to carry out the necessary procedures. In practice, with the weekend and holidays in the middle -- as it's been some year -- the glovers and the glovers had six days to be able to buy, pay, identify and certify investments and to justify aid -- something that in practice is totally impossible. This situation is not a novelty for the Galician Union, since two years ago exactly the same thing happened. Different collectives, peasant associations, farmers and trade unions had meetings and put forward proposals with you, with the Government, to improve the management of these aids, both in form, in times, and at the bottom, and to develop investments and priorities. The result we're seeing today: none. This bad planning and the delay in payment of damages is often causing disaffectation between the glovers and the glovers, because it's a problem we've been having for many years, it's a problem that's chronicled and that you don't solve. The first harmed, as always, the rural inhabitants, as well as the fauna itself. Mr Seco said — and I was saying well — that the Government is improvising in many cases with these measures, that they are desperate and that they can bring terrible consequences behind them. We see this GNP which presents here the Socialist Party of Galicia and which comes from the hands of Agricultural Unions, so from En Marea we will support it. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u218	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u219	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon. I have to thank Mr. Rueda for the high concept he has of us, the nationalists, putting in our hands the responsibility of negotiating with Madrid the main problems of Galicia. It's really comforting, though it has humiliating aspects, but there everyone. And the triumph of citizen pressure and political pressure brings us the news of the rejection of the barbarity of the Touro mine. [[Applause]] A taste! A warning: we'll be alert, because the project of another predatory law is in the process of prior consultation. The environmental assessment law can be the perfect maneuver for Touro and similar operations. We'll be careful; we know what they're capable of. In 2016 they took out the last order of help for damage to the boar. This was officially recognized as the existence of a problem in rural areas that affected crops, fauna and even human life. But in 2017 and 2018 there was no order; I guess the problem was minimal. The phone didn't record any complaints, says Mrs. Ana Maria from the Environment. Of course, you were calling and on the other side of the phone nobody showed up, and people were swallowing anger and facing the damage as they could. The problem just blew up. And they realized that this year there were elections, and not just one; it was 2019. The smoke of carousel, they drew a face to the common sense made orders of help. There were laughter and tears, and the beauty was protected by decree. The situation of lack of control was going further: damage and more damage, four daily traffic accidents and day and night visits to the outskirts of the cities. Invased by the brave pig. Invased by the angry pig? They're all hypotheses. In the absence of serious studies, anyone can open his mouth and give random figures. You made deaf ears at the request you made from the BNG of a serious management plan, a population census by comarcas made scientifically and a management of the planned species that you contemplated and applied different control options. But the election campaigns were tightening up and they saw that the rural people were with an angry background. They decided to take a blow and, in a roundabout, declared the cinematic emergency. Thirty-three councillors chosen almost randomly, reform of the Hunting Law through the service door, and throw their chests out as if to say, "Now you're going to see what is control of the species." And by step, the country was put in the municipalities of blame for the eco-ghosts and those of the Block, because it was our fault. Face them for everything! For everything but to exercise the government wisely and trace the problems. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a group of experts on African swine fever in Europe who has just approved an act manual in September 2018 as the guide to how to deal with the disease. And, among other things, he advises and reports that, at the moment, Europe warns you that disease is endemic in the Jabaris populations of several countries and continues to expand, so it's a cause of extreme concern. The recommendations of the experts are urgent about taking action on the management of the hunting of the boar, introducing biosecurity and management criteria, and the proper manipulation of the disposal and movement of the boar channels. And you, gentlemen of the People's Party, in a period of hallucination came to propose to market boar meat in an IXP way to take advantage of its abundance. Oh, the commercial vision that you can have. That's why kinetic emergency. And the German Government carries the charges of the bricks, amends the Hunting Law and puts the lives of hunters and people at risk: a rebound bullet, struck without security, improvisation, fearless incompetence. And by the way, in that exercise of shaking the thumbs to the right and left, of circumventing the responsibilities of government in that anxiety of "I didn't go," and taking advantage of the change of the Government of Madrid, the Environmental Counsellor enters into February activity to pass the responsibilities of management of this species to the socialist Government. And now they recognize the need for a population census of the species; now they agree with a management plan; now they speak of the threat of African swine fever; now they wash their hands and do others! And they intend to banner claims when it was their incompetence to which it caused the problem to grow. In view of these facts, ladies and gentlemen, the diagnosis is clear: if they are unable to assume their responsibilities, if they are unable to govern, leave it alone. Go away, stop playing the ball. We will support this LNP, of course.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u220	Thank you, Mrs. Rivas. For the Parliamentary Group of the Left, Mr Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u221	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. A special greeting to the representatives and representatives of Agrarian Unions accompanying us today. We are, of course, going to support this initiative that brings today to the Socialist Party and which promotes agricultural union in the face of abandonment and dislocation in ecosystem management and in the face of the lack of assumption of responsibility of the Galician Union, which has allowed this problem to reach an absolutely unacceptable dimension and which, even today and with all the damage it is generating, continues to look to the other side, deriving its own responsibilities and showing its inability or lack of interest in fixing our country's problems. It is evidence that there has been overpopulation and displacement of the mass of the boar in our country, which causes damage of about 15 million euros a year in the agricultural sector. It is evidence that the population of boar has already caused two thousand and five hundred accidents a year on the roads of Greece, which, in addition to the social consequences that this entails — as we all know — also has important economic costs. It is evidence of the serious risk to which the Galician gutter cabin is being subjected in a sector as important to Galicia as the pig, with a very real risk of suffering from a serious epidemic of swine fever. Just as evidence is evidence of the ecosystem imbalance generated by this mismanagement, which aggravates the environmental crisis and the situation of the already badly damaged Galician biodiversity. And all these evidences speak of evidence: the evidence of the People's Party's rule of law. On the one hand, he speaks of the irresponsibility of the Council of Galicia to bring us here with its policies of dislocation and annihilation of the countryside, putting the mountain to the service of extractive lobbyists. And on the other hand, in case this doesn't seem enough to you today, with all the data we have and after generating this problem, you're doing absolutely nothing to give you a solution. In the face of a great problem, the People's Party does not provide a great solution; the only thing it brings is more abandonment, put in place of ridiculous and dangerous acts, such as those relating to hunting — as the representatives of the Tekores have already shown themselves — and keeping their head hidden in the hole, to see if the problem is solved alone. The reality that we are living in, the reality of data, teaches how the People's Party faces this problem. Despite the fact that the damage caused by the barbarian in the field is encrypted about 15 million euros a year, the compensation that comes to Junta amounts to 600,000 euros. This says more than fourteen million are assumed by the agricultural sector. That's why we're talking about ridiculous measures to continue the annihilation of rural areas. In the face of a problem of these dimensions, we must leave shamanism, occurrences and irresponsibility. It is necessary to focus on the causes in order to avoid future situations. It's a priority to diagnose what are the population masses of the boar in Galicia and to address a proper environmental management of our mountains. It is necessary to promote the self-regulation capabilities of ecosystems through a commitment decided by the native forest, because, as the Director General of Natural Heritage himself, Bethlehem of the Campo, the areas of weeds are suitable for an uncontrolled breeding and settlement of the Jabaris, because they find shelter and are sometimes close to agricultural or urban production areas, thus enabling their inclusion in the search for food. This is what the Government itself says, and therefore you should put your batteries on. It is necessary for administration to move and count with a mass census of the boar population in order not to continue giving blind poles. It is necessary to develop technical consultation guides for the diagnosis of the best possible methodologies for controlling and regulating the masses of the boar population, and to abandon the policies of doing west: first shot and then question. The specialized technical staff must be strengthened by the task of regulating and controlling the population masses of jabaril and other species. We need reports on the state of the natural habitats of the boar, as well as the environmental state of our mountains as an element of diagnosis of the causes of the overpopulation of the boar. In short, what you have to do is manage, stop looking the other way, stop having your head in a hole and manage this problem. We will support this initiative which promotes and registers Agricultural Unions and which brings the Socialist Party today. And we expect the People's Party to change its propaganda strategy for managing the country. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u222	Thank you, Mr. Cal. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Prado Patiño.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u223	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, Mr. Roberto García, Secretary of Agricultural Unions, and the whole team. And a greeting to all the people who were walking on the street, because neither our audiences here in Galicia help a lot. Today we bring -- let's say -- Xabaril, chapter 3, and I'm totally familiar with this. And the Socialist Group presents this GNP with a popular legislative initiative, presented by the Agricultural Unions, on the great social problem in Galicia caused by the shabaril. The truth is it's a shame, because I would like the Secretary of Agricultural Unions to be here today; in total, very few firms were missing. I know you're going to Frades myself, and I'd be ten thousand to bring here a popular legislative initiative, which this regulation has approved by the People's Party, and I'd like to discuss it here. Maybe we'll soon see you here, Mr. Roberto. Know that I offer you a greeting from here -- because the courtesan doesn't take the brave away -- and I know his work for the farm and probably for his work. Having said this, the opposition groups are praying throughout this entire legislation against the German Government, especially in the middle of the countryside, and are following that canteen in 2019, and will follow in 2020. What if Junta pulls out a cinematic emergency plan, why does she pull it out? Because everyone recognizes, according to traffic accidents and according to the abundance of bountiful bounties in cinematic exploitation plans made by hunting oaks, more or less the comarcas that have the excess. So these four comarcas, those thirty-three municipalities and those sixty-four tecores, because they're not worth the opposition groups either. Ten to eight hunters are reduced to make beatings easier; because -- you have to say -- there's no generational relief in the field in the agricultural sector, but there's none on the hunters' theme, so it's reduced from ten to eight. It extends until February 29th the hunt for the boar, but it's not worth it either. If we now take the times of seeing other autonomous communities, I put on chance the Basque Country or Catalonia, which you like so much. And what do you use in the Basque Country? Well, so that a boar escape from urbanizations will use the wolf's ear. That's true. In the Autonomous Community of Catalonia? Well, through the Autonomous University of Barcelona since 2016, they've been taking and making an experimental plan to take a hundred females and put them in contraceptives so they don't reproduce. Man, I don't know the result, but the boar isn't a soft pig, which is the angry pig, and I don't know what means they're going to use to catch those hundred females in the mountain. So let's set an example for the other autonomous communities, and what we do in Galicia is worth very little. This year — I'll give you an advance because, as soon as possible, President, it won't give me time — the Council increases the percentage of aid to alleviate the damage by a hundred and seventy-six percent. This means that if last year the Environment Council had a budget of EUR 8800,000, this year it is EUR 2,241,000. And I'm sure, Mr. President, if President Pedro Sánchez paid us what he owes, perhaps they'd be even more lucky......the Galicians and farmers, because, at best, we'd spend 200 percent. [[Applause]] When we talk about the boar, this one has no borders, that is, there's an increase of boar across Spain. The boar has a gift of nature, procreates it from the first year, reproduces two or three times a year, lasts from ten to twelve years, has four to eight rings and eats at all, because it is both vegetarian and eats a preda, i.e., it's worth everything to eat. So let's say we're talking about one of the most harmful and invasive species. I've only got 15 seconds left?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u224	Fifteen seconds, yeah. A little bit more because the subject is interesting.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u225	No, no, it's just... [[Murmurs.]] Galician Union? The Galician Union is fulfilling its duties. First of all, the Rural Councillory controlling swine fever, and the Environmental Councillory controlling overpopulation through aid to damage and hunting. We were talking about the co-responsibility fund, and we know that this is not regulated by the 2013 Hunting Act. And what you did to Junta -- I said before the amount was left for this year -- you have to think that from 2016 until today it brings the Junta to $3,652,000. Not about the damage caused by traffic accidents? Home!, the wild fauna in Galicia is double on the state roads than on the roads of Junta, and Junta comes working with the University of Coruña in a study to calculate the truces of wild fauna troupel concentration. And they're about to see measures to inform the driver. And on controlled access roads, such as highways, highways and highways for automobiles on the newly built autonomous roads, the infrastructure plan designed by Junta already works in the installation of wildlife steps. Also in the construction of escape routes of fauna and reinforcement of closures. I'm done, Mr. President. Thank you. Since June, they have been testing on various autonomous roads, mainly Lugo, where more incidences, deterrent elements, such as repellents or attractives, smells or self-reflectors, are detected. Well, we're going to vote against it. And all because, really, Junta is doing it right. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's say we're sure we're going to increase the amounts as we have the budget. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u226	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u227	I, of course, recognize that the gloves and those who have potatoes and those who have corn, that is to say, before all we have to say that the habitat of Galicia has changed by depopulation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u228	Thank you, sir...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u229	It's changed because... I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u230	Yeah, 'cause we're a little out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u231	And we're thinking of the People's Group totally for the damage of the barbarians, and we hope that the Central Government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u232	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u233	And there's something I have to say: the subject of the barbarian census, although the board has already charged -- this has already been debated...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u234	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u235	...in the previous plenary session...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u236	Thank you, Mr. Prado Patiño. It's been a while.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u237	...which by the central government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u238	Thank you. [[Mr. Prado Patiño utters words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Thank you, Mr. Prado Patiño. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Pérez Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u239	Thank you, President. I am grateful for the vote in favour of the Joint Group, the Galician Nationalist Bloc and the Joint Left Group. Mr. Prado Patiño, I thank you for saying here that the Union recognises the problem of boar and that every year the damage is greater. What's doing it right? Then I disagree with you, because the damage is getting worse every year, I don't think it's doing very well in Galician Union. You used to talk about the Government of Spain, and at the presence of the vice president, I didn't hear you talk — at least I; I don't know, if that's correct me — that the boar was on Mr. Rueda's agenda. [[Applause]] [[Laughter]] In 2004, the Environment Council commissioned a study, which I asked for by Article 9 — of which I believe they have made me part — in which the damage caused by shabaril is very explicit, but part of the concrete measures are lacking. I don't know if they don't have it, if it's stored in a drawer, or what the situation of this 2004 report is. On the other hand, Mr. Patiño, you began your intervention by saying that if Agricultural Unions had gone to their Town Hall, to Frades, to collect the signatures, which would give him all the signatures. It invites your colleagues and fellow seats to vote in favour of this initiative. [[Applause]] And to finish, I hope you make that reflection tonight. Tomorrow they have all morning to reflect and study the change of vote so that this initiative is approved unanimously and Junta gets to work really and take the incomes of the great problem that is the shabaril in our community. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u240	Thank you, Mr. Pérez Seco. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Joint Left Group, at the initiative of Da María de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda and Da Luca Chao Pérez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the implementation of new titles on university campuses
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u241	There is a self-amendment of the Left Joint Group and an amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u242	To formulate the proposition has the floor to Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u243	Well, good afternoon to all and to all. This defense that we bring here today from the Ourense Campus titration Map we believe is very important. So, even if it's the last one and we're very tired, please, I'd ask for a little concentration. In March 2017, representatives of the Education Council — University and Vocational Training — and of the three public universities in Galicia signed an important agreement to define the guiding principles that would govern the planning of the academic offer in the five year 2017-2021. One of the priorities of these principles would be the implementation of new titrations on non-central campuses. This measure takes part of Law 6/2013, of June 13, of the Galician University System, on territorial balance and university campuses, which establishes that the Board will establish the actions and measures necessary to achieve balance between campuses. The Council and the three public universities in Wales agreed to the deployment of sixteen new degrees of monouniversity distributed as follows: four in Lugo, three in Coruña, Santiago and Ferrol, two in Vigo, Pontevedra one and in Ourense zero, zero potato. Two degrees of interuniversity were also approved, one of them between Ferrol and Ourense, still unimplemented. This was unexpectedly announced on July 30 in a climate of widespread protest in Ourense, so it was considered discriminatory treatment in university planning. That the competitiveness of other Welsh campuses was enhanced by Plan 2017-2021 is undoubtedly an excellent new for SUG, but we must not forget that the balance for the non-central Ourense campus is very negative. In this respect, first of all, we have to take into account, in addition, that we have also withdrawn the simultaneity of studies in Informatics and ADEs of Ourense. This is incredible and I'm going to explain why. Withdrawal for course 2019-2020 by unilateral decision of the Board, this simultaneity or double degree had, at the time of its withdrawal, the third highest cut-off note of the campus titrations. In addition, he provided a unique itinerary in Galicia. The removal of the market offer is regulated, there are instructions to suppress this offer, and it is regulated by a resolution of March 2019 from the General Secretariat. In its article 6 it says that to reduce squares if they have to give circumstances, and it names two: one is the excess offer and the second is the number of graduates when the graduation rate is systematically less than 35 percent over the last three years. None of these two assumptions compete in the double degree in Computer Science and ADE. At the same time, in April 2019, not only were the squares reduced from twenty to zero, but in December it was known that the University of Santiago de Compostela—Olliño, eh, olliño!—at the Campus de Lugo would offer a degree in Enterprise and Technology with a curriculum similar to the double grade suppressed in Ourense. The degree in Enterprise and Technology will be implemented at the Faculty of Administration and Directorate of Enterprises of Location. Do you know who the headline is? He's a person who has the place as a university professor: the headmaster of the General Secretariat of Universities, Mr. José Alberto Díez de Castro. How curious and what a coincidence! We also unilaterally—followed the abuse of the Ourense Campus—the Councillory of Education, University and Vocational Training modified the proposal for a master's degree in Aeronautics Engineering from the School of Aeronautics of Ourense. This school is the only one in Galicia that offers the degree in Aerospace Engineering that gives access to the master's skill. Despite this, contrary to the high proposal from the Ourense Campus, the Galician Union is proposing that the master's degree become an interuniversity and also be made in Vigo and Coruña. What opens this door? It's obvious, open the door to duplication. So, to this situation is added, besides — it is a sum and it follows — the loss of exclusivity of the degree of Tourism of the Ourense Campus. Ladies and gentlemen, this is over in December 2019 last month. Once again, we must appeal to the Law of the Galician University System and its Article 8, which states that the implementation of the titrations establishes one of the key criteria, which is to avoid the repetition of the titrations in the autonomous community. Finally, in 2019, a few months ago -- we're talking about something super recent -- a Supreme Court judicial judgment was published that determines the legality of the degree designation in Physics Engineering. What do we mean by this? That in 2014 the Agency for the Quality of the University System of Galicia informed unfavorably about the implementation at the Ourense Campus of the degree of Physics Engineering. And you know why? Because he said it was confusing. That's the same title as at the Polytechnic of Catalonia and Carlos III University. The Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia has already warned that this was not legal. Now the Supreme Court has just ratified what we're saying. Who was a secretary? Who was at the time at ACSUG? Well, curiously, José Eduardo López Pereira, an old general secretary of universities in the time of Manuel Fraga. What's important here is that the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia has already declared illegal the agreements that resulted in the abolition of the Bachelor of Physics at the Ourense Campus. Do you know how many demands there are in this Physics Bachelor's degree? Sixty people a year. There are ninety squares. Ourense could perfectly have this degree. The creation and location of new titles, in addition, must follow a program that meets university demand and the availability of human resources. There are enough professors of physics at the Ourense Campus. Many students and students from Greece who are interested in training themselves in the development of the newest applications of physics are more likely to move out of our community to do so when, if this engineering was implemented, a part could receive their training in the Ourense Campus, while public resources would be optimized and contributed from Galicia to the introduction of a very interesting professional academic profile in the Spanish state. Certainly, the studies of Physics of the Ourense Campus were, in addition, the counter-repression of the abolition by decree of chemistry, biology and pharmacy in the early 1990s. For their part, the studies of Aerospace Engineering have come to compensate for the illegal suppression of Physics and are now in danger of being duplicated. Ladies and gentlemen, the discrimination of the Ourense Campus is historic and has been fought energetically by the Austrian society over more than twenty-five years by the hand of the Pro Campus de Ourense platform, the only one of these characteristics of Galicia. Here I have to say something else and make a fair mention of Etelvino Blanco, who left us six months ago but who left an absolutely unforgettable footprint at the union, political and social level. Besides, it was also a bulwark on the Pro Campus platform, which has been engaged for twenty-five years by the defense of the Ourense Campus. [[Applause]] However, what we ask is that the Ourense Central Campus be strengthened with the implementation of new titles, which resists the simultaneous studies of Informatics and ADE — which have never had to be suppressed — which immediately ceases...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u244	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u245	...the general secretary of universities, who shields the Aeronautics career, who restituts, in the form of a degree in Physical Engineering, the Physics studies of the Ourense Campus, and which comply with the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u246	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cuña. For the Galician Nationalist Block Group, you have the floor for Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u247	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Just two questions. I'll also explain the amendment, although with the proposed group's self-amendment we'll have to see what fit it would have. But just comment on two questions. Mrs. Cuña in her speech and also in her explanatory statement puts the focus on the situation of the Ourense Campus, on the suppression — as she spoke — of the double degree of computer science and ADE and the introduction of other changes in what has to do with the offer and the Map of titrations. We at the BNG believe that the right thing to do would be to do a reading beyond the site, beyond the concrete situation of the Ourense Campus. What we have in the Greek university system, in the Map of titrations that are within the Greek university system, is a problem of balance and planning without country vision, which is what the People's Party is all about, but also about planning in university matters. The reality that reaches the Ourense Campus is very similar to that of the other peripheral campuses in the country (i.e., Ourense — of course —, Lugo and Ferrol), which is the result in good measure of the conjunction of several issues — let's say — The first is, of course, a demographic crisis, which also reflects on the university system in our country. campuses in general are missing students, but above all, peripheral campuses. The case of Lugo is also bloody, as is the case of Ourense, and he loses his education. But besides, peripheral campuses have or have other handicaps, other evas, such as, for example, a lack of infrastructure that leads many people inside and outside the country to want to enroll in the titrations offered inside these campuses. It's not baladi or it's not something that also does not affect the service itself or the Greek university system itself or the lack or deficit in railway infrastructure, the lack or deficit in road transport connections or many other issues that also have their repercussions on the university system, especially on peripheral campuses. But the reality and the situation in the fields of Lugo, Ourense or Ferrol have also been a reflection of the limitations imposed by the People's Party in recent years. For example, with Decree 222/2011, where a number of criteria were established in the process of reforming or revising the Title Map, and which required the supply or maintenance of titrations that were being provided on campuses to have a minimum of pupils. In 2011, it was set at fifty for the central campuses and at forty-five for the peripheral campuses — that's in 2011 —. With the demographic reality we have in this country, this is absolutely out of hand and eventually it's a piece of work so they can keep their titration offer. And, above all, because they set an exception after that Decree 2011, which was the fixing or creation of the category of titrations that were considered "singular". None of them received that consideration from the Galician Council on the peripheral campuses. And this, for example, was said by some other titration, in this specific case of the Ourense Campus, that the suppression of Geographic Topography in the Lugo Campus was not considered "singular" when it was the only campus of the entire Galician university system that offered this title, in addition to the most enabling. The Board imposed certain conditions on the public university system in this country which was basically: it was necessary to reform the offer of titrations, the Map of titrations, but the zero cost. I mean, no new titration could lead to an increase in the number of squares offered; basically, if you want to offer a new title, you have to sacrifice another one that already exists. And that leads us to the situation we are now in. And simply, telegraphically, I explain the amendment, which goes a little bit in this direction. In the face of those pitfalls, those limitations and those burdens imposed on the public university system of this country, what we see is how the red carpet is put for a private initiative, as is being done in the case of the university that drives Abanca. He didn't meet the requirements; he referred to the legislation to Mrs. Cuña, which is that law of the Greek university system, of the year 2013. Among other issues, Article 13, which obliges an offer of research to be developed, which does not appear anywhere in the project submitted by Abanca, or which there cannot be such duplication in the offer of titles. It's offered by the MBA who already has the University of Coruña...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u248	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u249	...provides administration—renamed—and Enterprise Directorate, which are offered at the three public universities in this country, and Cybersecurity, which has a master's degree at the University of Coruña and shared Vigo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u250	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u251	We in the amendment submit that if you withdraw that private university bill from Abanca or at least that you are required to comply with the vigorative legislation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u252	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs. Burgo López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u253	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. We all know that when the right hand wants to dominate the university, which is always, it uses two fundamental forms: one, restricting funding, suffocating economically, and also making a continuous intrusion that limits and ends with university autonomy, which, by the way, is a right recognized in our Constitution. In this case, the techniques of the PP, of the Government of Mr Feijóo are elementary and those of the time: the asphyxiation of funding — as the principals are recognizing and reporting — and the intrusion into everything in which one can, from teacher squares to, of course and very sensitively, the teaching offer of the university system. In this case, this continued involvement of the General Secretariat of Universities, withdrawing and imposing the implementation of titrations in the teaching offer of the university system, is reaching unacceptable limits, because it is already reaching absolute arbitraryness. Arbitrary because we don't know the causes or have previously been warned of the withdrawal of this double degree of ADE and Engineering, as Mrs. Cuña said, but also arbitrary withdrawal of titrations on campus, in this case, at the Campus de Lugo. I want to tell you a case that gives you an idea of what I'm saying. Several titrations were withdrawn at the Lugo Campus. Just these titles—see where they are recognised in the Report Synthetic Indicators of the Spanish University System, carried out by the BBVA Foundation, where teaching, research and innovation activities, such as the first and second in the ranking of Spanish titrations, such titles as Cultural Dissemination, Forest Engineering and Chemical Processes, Civil Engineering and Topography or Language and Literature of the Campus de Lugo. Those titles, which are number one and two out of all Spain, are deleted or are about to be deleted. That's the quality the People's Party is looking for. And then he uses absolutely unacceptable criteria, as Mrs. Rodil said. The numerical criterion cannot be used without seeing or even seeing what titrations we're talking about. It's the same for Veterinary as for Language and Literature. That's absolutely unacceptable. And unacceptable is that when a university asks for a title, a degree, even if it doesn't ask for one more teacher and one more euro, it can only do it if it withdraws one title from its offer. That is to say, increasing the number of squares in a title must also lead to a reduction in another title. I mean, they want a stability of the system, that the public system can't grow and increase its student. But I agree with Mrs. Rodil: this takes on new meaning when we know that affront is supporting the People's Party a private university that will not have these restrictions, neither the number of markets offered nor the number of titles offered. Deductions are logical and easy to do. These criteria and ways of dealing with a public system cannot be accepted. That's why what's happening at the Ourense Campus perfectly reflects what is the people's party's university policy. Mrs. Rodil is right. They are also suffering from it, to a lesser extent, the Campus de Lugo and the Campus de Ferrol, because the People's Party does not take into consideration at all any planning, nor the need or function that the university has not only to achieve greater educational equity — that it has, of course — but also as an economic impulse and therefore improves the life of the provinces, as is the case with Ourense. So -- and finished -- we agree with your non-law proposal and we support it. I believe that we must debate this issue many more times, which is fundamental, in this parliament, and seeing in a global way this absolutely unacceptable policy on the part of the Council of Galicia. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u254	Thank you very much, Mrs Burgo. Now if, by the Joint Parliamentary Group — I apologize — Mr Rodríguez Estévez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u255	President, thank you very much. The Board has just demonstrated during this course its intention to dismantle the Ourense Campus. On the one hand, his proposal to take to the School of Roads at the University of Coruña the Master of Aeronautics Engineering, which is now offered exclusively at the School of Aeronautics of Space Engineering, and which logically only makes sense on a campus where the so-called titration already exists. The Union intends with this measure to put down all claims made by social groups in the province of Ourense — such as those on the Pro Campus platform — by forcing the student, who has settled for four years, for example in the city of Ourense by doing this degree, to have to seek another housing in another Greek city without showing the need or without justifying this measure in a technical or economic manner. On the other hand, the confirmed abolition of the double degree of administration and business management — in this way is reflected in the proposal amended by the Secretariat of Universities — received in April, at the heart of the University of Vigo, which requested twenty squares for that double degree. So none of these measures are legally justified, or even economically, which seems to be the only thing that interests this government. Furthermore, the campus enjoys at this time several careers of a social nature, such as Social Work, which is Galicia's only public; Social Education, with the full enrolment and with an increase in the notice of cut-off year after year; or Maxisterio, with the primary and child branch, which requires a postgraduate wager that is scarce and which would be complemented with a specific master that facilitates the subsequent work access of its students. A bet for converting the Ourense Campus into a referent of social intervention at the state level, etc., including the proposal for the creation of a double degree in Work and Social Education, already existing on other state campuses, would reinforce this idea and attract to the Ourense Campus and to the new city and new students. The displacement of the province's student, as well as the very instability and precarious work to which we expose in many cases the professor of the Ourense Campus, the university professor, makes us face what is undoubtedly the dismantling of public university education, starting, of course, of the Orense Campus. We're always pioneers when something breaks up. We're not too far away and we think it might have something to do with that rustling that we've heard for months about a new campus at a private university in Galicia. It wouldn't surprise us from the Parliamentary Group of En Marea that some of these spaces would appear in that new offer. So we see it necessary and fair this non-law proposal and we will vote in favour of it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u256	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodríguez. You have the floor, for the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u257	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Mrs. Cuña, I was bringing the notes to the first proposal, in which there were confusing themes and talking about topics in the explanatory statement and the resolution was another. Now, with the self-amendment to the whole, for it's even more confusing what you want, as the companion told you before. First of all, you are attributing responsibilities to the Union that do not correspond to it. We have to remember that universities have recognized their autonomy and that the role of the Union is the coordination of the Greek university system. The Campus de Ourense belongs to the University of Vigo, which signed an agreement of the three directors with the Board in 2017 for the planning of the academic offer for the period 2018-2020. Well, from these fourteen new titles, the University of Vigo asked for only two, without any closures, and none for Ourense. This was the request of the University of Vigo. Those who decide which titles are asked or closed at each university are their own universities. So this request must be made in the governing bodies of the University of Vigo, either in the college cloister, either in the government council or in the vice-rectory of Ourense, because that's where the decisions are made about what titles to ask for. So the one who has to move points 1 and 5 is to the University of Vigo. On the other hand, I'm glad that at least in this allowance I'd corrected the subject of double grade. First, because there is no double-degree as such — no double-degree title of anything — it is a simultaneity, as is now corrected, where the two-degree schedules are compatible to be able to run at the same time. This is what the colloquially called double degree means. They give the student two degrees of two different degrees. The objective data of this double degree are the worst in the Galician university system: of the 20 people who enrolled in the first year, only two are expected to graduate. And they have two data that are demolition for the whole of the Galician university system, which are the objective data: not only that the graduation rate is the lowest in the SUG, but that 50% of the students leave their studies in the second grade; and they are good students — as you said — that is the third cut-off note. There's no double direction. People register half in ADE and half in Informatics and study each other or register in both. But practically all ADE students enrolled in computer science leave it in the first year. I mean, I think we're creating a problem. So, according to the University of Vigo and given this data, it was decided that these squares that were assigned to that schedule — which were not lost — had returned to the original groups of both ADE and Informatics. The theme of Aeronautics. From the very first moment the great advocate of the grade of Aeronautics for Ourense was counseling. Four years before he asked Ourense, he asked UDC and told him that, as we're talking about the master, the degree is in Ourense, that he had waited until he could also be implanted in Ourense to do it together. [[The Crown]] He told the Crown to wait for it and lead him to Ourense because the degree is there. This is in writing and it took four years before. The same for Tourism. Tourism's been working in the Coruña for decades, what happens is that it was private. What happened this year? Let the UDC public university take over a private school. That's the only difference. It wasn't exclusively in Ourense, there was a private one. Now the public system takes a private school. Among these subjects — of course! — had to get out of Abanca. They have very little hope for you to rule within a year, because this is an administrative process that goes on for a long time and that, in addition, you have to come to this parliament as a bill and, if you meet those conditions, you have to approve this parliament. They had not predicted, in the memory they are processing, that they have the double degree of ADE with Computers — to make it clear — at least in the memory they presented. So, in the end, what do we see? It's all mixed up. Since there's no bet on the Galician university system? But if the data is objective! In the last financial plan 2016-2020 it increased by 18%, almost four hundred million euros. Two thousand and five hundred million euros is what the taxes of the Greeks on this Greek public system. In the private system: zero, and there are private universities. In the public system: two thousand five hundred million euros, which is an increase of 18%. I think it's just twisting the data. The titles given at the Orense Campus are decided by the University of Vigo, because it is a campus belonging to the University of Vigo. The commitment of Union is absolute to advance excellence, of course also with peripheral campuses. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u258	Thank you very much. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Cuña Bóveda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u259	First, I want to thank Mrs. Rodil. The amendment we accept. I was on the first proposal. I want to apologize for amending the whole thing, but there's news a month ago, two months ago, and we had to incorporate them. This is what justifies you. The imbalance in non-central universities is bleeding. I wanted to tell you, Mr. Fernández Prado, that, of course, of confusion, nothing, and responsibility, all. First, I will continue with thanks to the other groups. We agree and share with Mrs Burgo the two levels of asphyxiation and intrusion, and the bad quality that this PP policy is generating. I also agree that we need to talk not only about the University of Ourense and the South Campus, dependent on Vigo, but about all of them. But this kicks for another day. I mean — very quickly — that right now Ourense is the city and the province abused and abused, historically. Ourense society is reacting. At this very hour there is a demonstration of the platform against the intermodal station. Health care, its health policy, is horrible. But I'll have an answer. So, I'm very interested in some of the issues he said. It's very good to see that a double degree is not a titration but a program. Of course you do! But it is that this simultaneous program that is suppressed from the offer of the Ourense Campus if it is going to do away with the private university of Abanca and the degree in Enterprise and Technology approved in Lugo, where the secretary general has the plaza. It's an absolute shame. Then, following his argument, he says there's no student. You didn't listen to me and I ask you to listen to me, because I'm not talking to the air, but you don't listen to me. There are two requirements: excess supply and number of graduates. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know when the first promotion of the double degree came out? Just in 2019. There are enough students. Well, then, you don't ask Mr. PP's representative. The CIUG says they were covering all the squares. I mean, you say Mass but you're lying. As for the master of Aeronautics Engineering, they're making a joke at the national level. Well, I'm talking about the time that's coming. [[Murmurs.]] The first promotion is due in June 2020.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u260	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u261	An aeronautical engineer, Mr. Pedro Duque, is coming. [[Murmurs.]] Of course, the master, Mr. Fernández Prado, is the natural follow-up to the grade studies of the Aeronautics School. And nothing he said, because, if there's any shame in shame and shame, it's the illegality with which he suppressed Physical Engineering. [[Murmurs.]] Nothing else, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-28-DSPG145.u262	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cuña. At the end of today's points, we suspended the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning.
