ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u1	Good morning. Let us resume the session with questions to the President. In this case, we'll do it cumulatively. These are two questions for the president's oral answer. Cumulative of two questions to the President of the Board for their joint formulation He asked Mr. President of the Galician Presidency of Mr. Gonzalo Caballero Miguez, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the views of the German Government on the measures taken during the first 100 days of this legislation in the face of the greatest economic, social and health crisis in Galicia Ask Mr. President of the Galician Board of Da Ana Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, about the balance made by the Greek Government of the management carried out in relation to the health, economic and social crisis generated by the coward-19
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u2	Mr Gonzalo Caballero, spokesperson for the Parliamentary Group of Socialists in Galicia. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. I wanted to start this speech this past year, wishing you all some happy parties. It's time to balance all year round, also to move the entire population of Wales all support and all momentum after a very difficult year, to wish everyone who spend these dates cautiously and responsibly and to face next year with the greatest force and the greatest capacity for collective action to protect people. And I also wanted to start this intervention by referring to two issues that concern us about these parties: first of all, the key to protocols and compliance with the rules and, secondly, the tracking system that exists for the traceability of the virus. Few days ago, Mr. Feijóo, you had to apologize for an act of recklessness, for an error, which was the following: you embraced the leader of the People's Party, I suppose by celebrating the opposition of the cave on the right to the law of euthanasia and worthy memory. I suppose that joy and satisfaction led him to make a mistake, recklessness in front of the cameras, so you had to apologize. And it is true that, in addition to that apology you made with reference, there was also a walk with the leader of the People's Party, with Mr. Married, without masks. As much as the communications offices of the Galician Union had tried to prevent this photo from coming into public light, it came out. I understand that everyone can commit an unwise act, but those we have responsibilities we have to have the greatest solvency, the greatest need, and the first of them is the President of the Council of Galicia. [[Applause]] But in addition, we have to ask you, Mr. Feijó, if in that act in which there was a government advisor who gave a positive response to a PCR -- which we would like you to have a quick recovery -- there was a risk. If there was a risk in that act, what is the quarantine and protocol that you and those present in that act, at the closed door, are they doing? Because 48 hours after detecting a positive contact you were at parliamentary headquarters, and we want you to explain to us that protocol, that compliance, no doubt, will be a good example for a Greek citizen who wants responsibility and standards. And if there were no risks, why would the PCRs be done in a massive trapping for all the attendees? But we also have to talk about, Mr Feijóo, that the Galician Community is in line to find the source of the virus, the traceability of the virus. Carlos III Institute pointed out that in 2 out of 3 infections in Galicia, we don't have the ability to detect the path of the virus, as it was when it started. There's everything that's happened in these 100 days around the tracking system. You, Mr. Feijóo, announced that there were about 6,152 trackers in Galicia. The counselor said he wouldn't change the speech, he wouldn't say the number because, when they said it, comparisons would be made. We want to know what's the tracking system that's operating on this Christmas to follow the virus in Galicia. And we want to know, Mr Feijóo, because, in addition to fighting the virus with prudence and the tracking system, we need to support Greek citizenship and rescue the affected sectors as well, and there is a very clear water, because you have abandoned the productive fabric of this country. Yesterday, the Employment and Equality Councillor at Parliamentary Headquarters said that they had already allocated 10 million euros to self-employed people, to hospitality and small trade; 10 million euros in the months -- not a year -- in which income in Galicia fell by 6,000 million euros. You gave EUR 10 million to rescue the productive fabric, when the Government of Spain, only in Galicia, the ERAs, unemployment subsidies, support for the self-employed, allocated more than EUR 1.2 billion during this crisis; 10 million compared to 1.2 billion. [[Applause]] This is an absent government, which has been leaving the country for a hundred days at this first beginning of legislation. We ask him to defend health by fulfilling the protocols with complete certainty, strengthening public health and tracking systems. We can have relapses -- and we all know it -- these days, if we don't take all the measures, from private to public, with greater caution, and above all there has to be a government that opens a umbrella to protect people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u4	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u5	...and citizenship in the face of such a crisis. They didn't do it in the first wave, and they're getting late, bad and trail. Ten million is what the councillor said yesterday to us that it is the balance of this German government to protect people from the greatest crisis. Put the batteries on, get them to work, and do what they didn't do in 2021 by 2020: protect a citizen who needs economic support and a government present to protect people. [[Applause]] Nothing else and thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u6	Thank you, Mr. Knight. She now asks Mrs. Ana Pontón Mondelo, spokesperson for the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Feijóo, we are at the last plenary session of this year; the last plenary session of the year 2020 which has put our lives on the ground. It's the year of the pandemic, but it's also the year in which the Greeks and the Greeks showed us again that we're a people able to do our best in the toughest times. And that's why I want to propose today that we break the script, that we break that script so that you use this control session to oppose the opposition. Today I propose that you join the capital policy, that you claim a citizenship that wants to contrast your opinions, yes, but that you are tired of the disqualifications that you are responding to in this Parliament. So, I insist, let's propose that we break this script today and that we make politics at the height of what we've been shown during these days -- this year -- the Greeks and the Greeks. That's the spirit of my intervention, and I hope you pick up constructively the challenge I propose. Mr. Feijóo, your government did not manage the pandemic well. I wish I could say otherwise, but it's not worth denying that there was improvisation, lack of anticipation and repeated mistakes. Clearly, we cannot correct the past, but we can learn from these mistakes to avoid them in the future. And we must be there, in which we can and must do so that the year 2021 is the year in which we leave the pandemic behind and move on to economic and social reactivation. And in that sense, I want to anticipate some of BNG's proposals to overcome the cowardice and its consequences. First of all, we strengthen public health, particularly primary care, with 250 million more euros, plus when we're at a time when they also have to take care of the vaccination campaign. Secondly, let's put in place a new model of care for the elderly, betting on recovering the public management of residences. Thirdly, we set up a real rescue plan for the sectors and workers and workers most affected by the crisis. And fourthly, we agreed in this Parliament a strategy for Galicia to achieve direct management of the reactivation funds, aiming to achieve EUR 12.600 million, because there will be no reactivation if we do not have resources. In short, there are four proposals in four crucial areas to overcome the pandemic crisis as soon as possible; four measures, Mr Feijóo, open to dialogue and negotiation and made in the spirit of being able to build and add in favour of this country, in favour of the Greeks and the Greeks. But it's obvious that for that you have to get out of your script and for once put aside the dequalifications, the prepotence and the bronca, to give an answer with political height, which requires the time so hard that the Greeks and the Greeks are living. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, last week the Government came to take stock of the first 100 days; the first 100 days of confidence since the July 12 elections, the first 100 days of government action. I very much appreciate these questions because they allow us, firstly, to thank all public employees, and especially those of health and social services, the excellent work they are doing and the excellent data they are getting. And I want to thank you in a very special way for all these public employees and all the people of Galicia, who have maintained Galicia as one of the least-risk autonomous communities in the area of the pandemic, both in the first wave and in the second wave. I would like to thank this majority parliamentary group of the House for always maintaining rigour and continuing to work in spite of the difficulties; I would like to thank the opposition groups, who have generally expressed their wills in agreement, although, unfortunately, when voting, they are always against everything. And I want to thank you in a very special way, as you can imagine, for the Greek society; the one that, as Mrs. Pontón said, this year acted in an exemplary way, by going to the polls and voting for what you wanted and thus constituting and sending a message to all of this Spain that is one of the worst situations in forty years of democracy; a message of stability and an institutional message. That is why we obviously do not agree with the evaluation of the first hundred days, especially because Mr. Caballero seems to be upset by an act of the People's Party. But the truth and truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that the two major challenges we face are, first of all, the health challenge and the social challenge and, secondly, the challenge of reactivation. Yes, ladies. I'm sorry, Mrs. Pontón, that you don't appreciate the health professionals, just like Mr. Caballero, but saying that we mismanage the pandemic is going against our own data. Look, Your Honor, we're still in the autonomous communities with a lower incidence of the virus. We believe it to be the autonomous community with lower percentage of UCI beds and flat beds for covid pathology from all over Spain -- I insist, all over Spain -- And we are the second autonomous peninsular community of lower mortality from the virus in this second wave. Surely, ladies and gentlemen, some things have done well for health professionals, because this data would already like to have them in any autonomous community in Spain and in most parts of Europe. We're going to keep working on the criteria of the Clinical Committee, that is, always following the criteria of those who know, not the criteria of those who confuse them. So, Your Honor, when I hear that the pandemic is being mismanaged and that the number of beds occupied in the Galician ICU is 6.9 percent, when in Spain it's 20 percent, or when we hear that things hurt and we don't track, when the number of hospital beds in Galicia is less than half as much as in Spain, I wonder what's going on in the whole of Spain. What we're not going to do in any case is lie about death; we've already left it to the Government, the Socialist Party and its partners. Look, Your Honor, there are 1,200 more people working, over a million people tested with PCR, with saliva pool, with nasopharynx pool, and being the first autonomous community of the auto-cavid and the Spanish school vault. We wanted to be useful and loyal. We proposed a legislative reform to the Government to have a law that manages the pandemic, and the answer is no. This Parliament will have it; unfortunately, against you, but, of course, the pandemic will not remain regular, despite the irresponsibility of the opposition. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, when you tell me that we have to improve health, look, I tell you that in these first hundred days we opened the Pereiro de Aguiar health center and the Road health center, and I hope that next week we will open the Milladoiro health center. We bid a new comprehensive health centre in Lalín, with 9 million euros, and before we have even solo in the municipality of Moaña, we are bidding the constructive project to believe that at least they give up alone to claim a health center. Ladies and gentlemen, we bid the new Coruña hospital. We'll meet the Council and continue to work with infrastructure and contracts at the new Coruña hospital. We bid the work in Montecelo, the reform of Valdeorras, launched the remodeling of the Marine Hospital -- which is running -- we will continue with the final phase, and the emergencies of Barba and Santiago. That's why I'm surprised, ladies and gentlemen, that you say something about the country's public health, when this public health of the country is well cared for. Ladies and gentlemen, we have protocols for senior residences; we make them a one-piece per week, and the percentage of people infected in residences is 0.4%. Ladies and gentlemen, 28,000 people are enjoying the food card and the basic needs card. We are the autonomous community that has increased social policies the most, both in budget and in beneficiaries. Nothing was said about the education course, only criticism, and now it turns out, ladies and gentlemen, that in the first quarter what teachers, students, families and educational staff did was an example of educational management. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry to say that I am surprised that you are not proud of the public health system and the country's educational system, and of the ethical and responsible behaviour of the whole of Galician society. We have a rescue plan, Mr. Caballero, of EUR 84 million for the autonomous. Mr. Knight, we are in parliamentary office. You can say what you want in the interviews and in your memoirs, but we are in parliamentary headquarters: 84 million euros to the self-employed; and half, paid. And after the council of yesterday's ministers, with zero direct help to the tourism sector, do you come here to teach lessons about what to do in the hospitality sector? [[Mr. Caballero Miguez utters words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we'll continue to work for Galicia, you have no doubt, but you don't underestimate the intelligence of the country, you don't despise the intelligence of the Greeks. They do not look down on the fact that the Greeks know perfectly what is going on in Galicia, the rest of Spain and the rest of Europe. Don't despise, gentlemen, that we have a people worthy of being proud of him, and that's why I'm very proud of these hundred first days. I can assure you that in a hundred days we have done more things for Galicia than the Government of Spain in a year.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u10	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u11	We'll continue working with you or without you, they decide. If you want to join in bringing Galicia forward from discrepancy and alternative views, then forward. If you want to talk about other considerations, you can also use the time you want to talk about...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u12	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u13	...what they consider appropriate. I come here to talk about Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u14	Thank you, President. For the reply, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Feijóo, in an exercise of pedagogy and public explanation, again asks him to explain to you the protocol and the quarantine you followed after last Saturday you shared an act closed with a positive person by coronavirus detected by a PCR. What was the protocol you followed when you were in this Parliament 48 hours later? With that immense wisdom that you have, with that dogma and that capacity of truth that only you have in Galicia, illuminate this Parliament and Galicia and explain the true information, giving information to a Galicia that is concerned about the contaminations and that must have in public representatives examples of prudence, responsibility and also transparency. [[Applause]] Be transparent and explain, if there was a risk, why did you not do a quarantine; and, if there was no risk, why did an unrepeated PCR in less than 48 hours to all who were in that act, in which you celebrated with Mr. Casado the joy of the right of the reactionary cave in Spain for having voted against the law of euthanasia, of the law of worthy death. Tell Galicia. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Mr. Feijóo, when you talk about rescue and economics, you lie more than you say. Look, you're advertising that the Germans can ask for help up to 2,000 euros. Galicia has 200,000 self-government. If those self-employed asked for that $2,000 help, they would have to have 400 million euros -- 400 million euros! -- in order to make their advertising true. Yesterday the advisor said here that they spent 12 million and that there were 10 million more. What would they do with 20 million euros in the face of the greatest crisis! And you deceive Galicia when you don't recognize that the Government of Spain alone in ERTE, in benefits and unemployment, in aid to self-employed people, to tourism, to the hostess has stolen more than 1,200 million euros; in a single month, I peak at 200 million euros to cover more than 200,000 Galician workers in the most difficult months of the crisis, when you haven't taken any action. You've left the country, you're not supporting our country in this reality. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Feijóo, you have to rectify because the state needs to keep the Council of Galicia high, and in 100 days of government you didn't come here to explain those hundred days. He did an act to the media, he spoke to his own, he spoke to the Government, not to Parliament or to Galicia through that publicity. The advertising of help to the hostel you mark is misleading advertising. They cheat when they say they're devoting up to 2,000 euros to self-employed people and 5,000 euros to microenterprises because they don't have these funds -- 70 million for a set of self-employed people and 17 million for the inn. [[Mr. Knight Miguez shows a document.]] But the Government of Spain clearly has remitted more than 1,100 million euros that will arrive in the budgets of 2021 to Galicia via European funds and via Government of Spain. Over the course of this year, through the bottom of the vault, there have already been some 700 million euros; 224 million euros to compensate for the fall of the biggest economic activity. They're funds coming from Spain to Galician Union. What do you do? What country does Mr. Feijóo live in, which does not support the productive fabric or people?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u16	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u17	In what parallel reality does the People's Party live which denies that the ERTE, that the support of the workers, the self-employed, of 1.2 billion euros was vital...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u18	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u19	...for the economy of our country and they just want to boast that after spending 12 million euros to support the self-sufficient...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u20	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u21	...which is your competence...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u22	Thank you, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u23	...who has the competences in trade...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u24	Thank you, Mr. Knight. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u25	...they want to put...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u26	Thank you. [[Mr. Caballero Miguez utters words that are not perceived.]] Thank you. Your time is up. [[Mr. Caballero Miguez utters words that are not perceived.]] Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Knight. Time's up. [[Applause]] For the reply, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Feijóo, we cannot agree with your assessment of the first hundred days of government, among other things, because this was not the question that BNG asked, as much as the President of Parliament had accumulated in it, I suppose to do you a favor. [[Applause]] In any case, I have to tell you that we waited a lot longer for you; I don't know if it was because you had a little attack that, perhaps, with this Christmas spirit, we could do something different in this Parliament, or because you thought that, really, after a year as hard and as difficult as what the Greeks and the Greeks have been experiencing, you would be willing in this Parliament to return to the people of this country, with some political height, a little of the great effort that you have made throughout this year. But I see it's impossible, that you're unable to get out of that script, out of the broom, out of the disqualification and the prepotency. And there's no such time for triumphalism. It's just that yesterday the Clinical Committee said that we're at the door of the third wave, and you're here to say that everything's okay and everything's done. Something will fail, Mr. Feijó, when we are in a situation like this. Look, do you know it's the worst of a ruler? The worst thing about a ruler is he's not just lying anymore, he ends up believing his own lies. It's just that you have to get out of the official car, step on the street a little bit more and listen to what is the situation in which autonomous people in our country are living, what is the situation of the working people who have been out of work, what is the distress with which thousands of families live this situation and what is the harsh reality of health professionals, who have made an effort, despite the lack of means and resources. Because of course there's a recognition to health professionals, and don't hide behind them to try to hide what you haven't done, Mr. Feijóo. Because, look, here's something you didn't understand. This goes neither from PP, PSOE, nor BNG; this goes from what's happening to people in our country; this goes from those autonomous and autonomous who are going through them, and who don't see that these aids are enough; this goes from the small and medium-sized company, which is doing everything possible to keep up; this goes from people who need an answer, who live with anguish what's going on in the old residences; this goes from the answer we have to give to this Parliament so that people can see the light at the end of the tunnel; and this is going to tell them that in this Parliament we're going to do everything possible to make them know, so that they're safe, that we're going to get them out of there. But I see that you, Mr. Feijóo, are still there. And, look, despite his disappointing response, this group, the BNG, and this spokesman, we're going to continue working every day to improve the lives of the Greeks and the Greeks. And if you want to remain in that corner of the lie, the pre-power and the manipulation of this Parliament!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. For the closing of these questions, the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u29	Mr. President, thank you very much. Gentlemen, it's good for you to review the protocols to distinguish between a contact and a close contact; it's a substantial difference. If a Member of this House gives a positive vote on a PCR, it is logical to make another PCR for the rest of the Members, but not to put them all back together. If, on the other hand, it gives positive to the person you're next to, the logic is to make a PCR to you and, even if it's negative, turn it upside down. But if you've been the entire parliamentary session with a mask, the logic is not to quarantine it. That's the protocol you seem unknown to me; but as you don't know, in relation to the pandemic, almost everything, because I'm not surprised either. Look, I'm here full of photographs -- passing me the cabinet -- of the leaders of the PSOE and the BNG without mask in public acts. I'm not going to use them because I don't think this is about it. [[Mr. President of the Galician Council, Núñez Feijóo, holds photographs in his hands.]] And you say no. [[Murmurs.]] What do you want, to teach them to the House? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Please, sir...! [[Murmurs.]] If you don't care! [[Murmurs.]] It is so much the same as denying the graphic realities that immortalize you. Look, Your Honor, a government member traveled to Brussels for a council of ministers, and later, as a traveller who returned to Galicia, he made a PCR. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That government member attended an act without a PCR still diagnosed, and when he got the PCR result, we automatically called the journalists, the graphics and all the people who participated in an act that complied with all the regulations for them to make a PCR. Looks like you want me to be quarantined. What's the matter? Why don't you want me to come answer to Parliament? To quarantine, Your Honor, there's what the members of the Government have done: Mr. Sánchez, with a positive family PCR, does not quarantine, and Mr. Iglesias, with a positive family PCR, does not quarantine. And now you're here teaching me how to strictly comply with the Galician Health Service protocol, it's amazing! [[Applause]] Mr. Knight, leave it really; leave it for another time, because also about diagnosis and tracking you know very much. Look, indeed, Mrs Pontón, these first hundred days we have presented the biggest budgets in our history, but not in current expenditure, but in productive expenditure. And we've made the biggest public offer of employment in our history, 7,380 squares, and we can't get any more because the Socialist Party and you, who support the Government, don't let us take all the vacancies out of public health. Your Honor, we made a social agreement -- the first one in Spain -- for teleworking; we approved the Galician digital strategy, the milk sector plan and the forest plan; and we continued to improve the country's infrastructure. I think this is ruling, Your Honor. We send 12 laws to the Galician Parliament, and you, against; all against. We're sending a law to manage the pandemic, and you're going against managing the pandemic; we're sending a law for administrative simplification, and you're against administrative simplification -- thanks to the Socialist Party's abstinence -- Yesterday we celebrated the 40th anniversary of the Statute, and in the House we saw all the Members and Members of the Block -- except one who was wrong -- without applauding the forty years of constitutional autonomy in Galicia. The BNG also opposes the Statute of Autonomy and the Spanish Constitution. Therefore, Mrs Pontón, nothing has changed about the German nationalism, unfortunately. You follow exactly the same way. They can't even celebrate the country's autonomy. It seems to you little, because it's better, suggests it; to us it seems appropriate, we manage it. But if the BNG is also against the Autonomy Statute, how will it not be against an elected president of the Union in accordance with the Autonomy Statute? Mrs. Pontón, I feel satisfied these hundred first days. Mr. Knight too, yes. Look, the balance of the Socialist Party in Galicia these first hundred days was: applauding that Galicia is owed 500 million euros of VAT and incentives by fulfilling communities; closing Meirama and about to close The Bridges; being without the status of hyper-electrointensive companies; being with a back law that is about to close all industries by the sea, including seafood industries and industries...;
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u30	Mr. Orange, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u31	...to leave Navantia without work; to increase the tax of registration and the tax of most of the Greeks; to go back to fooling us about AVE; to reach an agreement in the European Union that closes 7% of Galicia's catches; and the worst budgets of Galicia in the last seventeen years. This is the balance of the Socialist Party of Galicia, ladies and gentlemen. But the grave is not the contempt of Galicia of the Socialist Party -- we're used to it -- the grave is not that the Socialist Party in Galicia is falling apart; the grave is that Mr. Knight applauds. And as the councilman of Fairy said in a brilliant sentence, Mr. Knight becomes the union link of the central government. That's your balance for the last 100 days, Mr. Knight. [[Laughter]] Mrs. Pontón, with all due respect, look, I don't know if you want Galicia much more than the rest of the mortals, what if I can assure you is that I love her with all my strength, and dedicate myself to her with all my abilities. I'm sure you have a lot more skill and experience. [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Pontón, what is clear is that the BNG balance is summed up in three considerations. The first one is that we didn't have to make the elections in July and that we had to do them in the fall. And when the fall came, the BNG said people should be confined. And it turns out, Your Honor, that you're telling me about managing the pandemic, about health rigor, about wanting to build the country, when the BNG didn't even want the country to vote at the right time and when it wanted to take us to vote at the least appropriate time. Look, Your Honor... [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo denies it with his head.]] But the jewel of the crown of these hundred first days of the BNG was to make President Mr. Sánchez and now complain of what Mr. Sánchez does with Galicia. You want to make arrangements; so do I. It's unfortunate they don't support anything; they want to come to agreements, but they don't support anything. They're against every proposal that the Government makes and every bill that the Government brings, amends to its entirety. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] We have a reactivation commission...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u32	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u33	It's an opportunity. You want us to manage the funds of the vault, and so do we. So do we. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And that's why, gentlemen, what we ask of you is that you abandon the classic; please let the BNG abandon the classic. A classic of always, always, is that, when we have to decide between Galicia and support the governments of the Socialist Party, they support the governments of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u34	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u35	This is the classic nationalist, ladies and gentlemen, and then you're talking about that they're only devoted to Galicia. No, ladies and gentlemen, if Galicia is to be betrayed by a deputy, of course it is, and if Galicia is to be betrayed by a council, without any doubt. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u36	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u37	And if we have to vote, without any doubt...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u38	Thank you. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u39	...and you see clearly...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u40	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, if you were consistent and consistent nationalists...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u42	Thank you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u43	...they wouldn't let Navantia shut down, they wouldn't let Meirama shut down...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u44	President, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u45	...and they wouldn't let The Bridges close.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u46	President, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u47	And they're still in the Deputy of the Crown seeing, exactly, everything happens.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u48	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u49	Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u50	President, your time is up. We've been through a lot of time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u51	Thank you very much and good holy year to all. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u52	Thank you. We continue with the agenda, in this case with non-legislative proposals. Proposal for a Non-Law of the People's G.P. of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Marta Nóvoa Churches and 13 other Members, on the demands to be made by the German Government to the Central Government in relation to the price of energy for electrointensive companies
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u53	An amendment was tabled by the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and by the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u54	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Candia has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u55	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies. First of all, and before we step up the presentation of this proposal, I wanted to share with all of you what I understand was a good news from last December 17. The decision of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia declared the Alcoa-San Cibrao employment regulation file null and void; a decision that must make the company recapitulate and return to the path of the dialogue to negotiate the sale of the plant. First of all, I want to acknowledge and thank the work and effort done by everyone. First of all, workers and their families and also -- allow me to quote the company committee and its president, for that tireless work and that mobilization in defense of the continuity of jobs in my territory. It is also a shared effort of the administrations, the central government and the board, with the support of the councils, and allow me to name especially the Town Hall of Jupiter and the Town Hall of Cervo. All of this was the result of cooperation and teamwork. We all have, although sometimes it seems the opposite, the same objective: to maintain jobs and to continue industrial activity in the marine region. It's also necessary to recognize the work of the Labour Authority, with a dozen requirements to the company, and I also have to recognize them -- let me -- the work and effort of the councillor and the president of the board. Alcohol is in time for rectification, we can get you to sell the plant, there's an operator willing to invest. And precisely with regard to this circumstance, it is of great importance that the matter we are going to debate now is of great importance. No doubt, we understand it's the best way out, but if that can't have a successful finish, we certainly have to advocate for the intervention. And now, before I get into the debate, I'd really like that in a unanimous way and with everyone's support I had repeated this phrase that so often sounded in the Navy that "the Cubans don't stop." I have to explain, first of all, an amendment my group is making to the initiative. I'm telling you, Mr President, because this initiative was registered, as you know, on December 2nd. They also know that on the 15th day -- published on the 17th day in the Official State Bulletin -- the Royal Decree 1106/2020, which regulates the Statute for Intensive Consumers, took place. This circumstance required me to amend point 2 and point 4, but, undoubtedly, it is more current than ever, because this statute, this instrument, does not solve one of the main problems affecting the continuity, precisely, of these jobs in the Navy, and that affect the rest of the electro-intensive companies. The two points that I drew -- which was said to be 2 and 3 -- call for this Royal Decree 1106/2020 of 15 December to be amended, so the Statute of Electrointensive Consumers is regulated, to include all the allegations submitted by the Galician Council, thus marking the roadmap for medium-term measures similar to those enjoyed by industry in other countries such as Germany and France. "Implementation" -- in point 4--- "in the shortest possible time possible the mechanisms that replace pauses, such as the strategic quick-response reserve, contemplating the uniqueities of the highly energy-consuming industry and seeking an early opening of the call times." Ladies and gentlemen, they certainly recognize this statute, because in fact you were in favour of the allegations, which not only presented Galicia, but also other autonomous communities such as Cantabria or Asturias -- as you know, in addition, of different political colors -- This statute cuts support for Greek companies, as it responds to a territorial criterion and not to a real bet by industry. This explains the increase in the number of possible beneficiary companies, from 120 to 600. Not only is it late, after more than two years of waiting, but it is clearly insufficient. In this agreement, large energy consumers will not be able to respond to their request for an electric price allowing them to compete on an equal footing with other European countries, including France or Germany. The northwest of Spain loses, once again, with this statute; in fact, they do not pay attention -- and I insist on this because I believe that there was an agreement frankly supported by all political forces, not only this Parliament, but all local or provincial corporations -- and in that request what we defended and unanimously supported is that the allegations that Galicia, Cantabria and Asturias had submitted were included in the document itself. The Government must rectify. This energy policy is leaving industry aside and, in particular, that of the north-west, and is either giving its back or not transferring certainties or guarantees of continuity to many families where its job depends on this activity. There is also no clear commitment from the point of view of CO2 mechanisms. It is necessary to complete up to the maximum permitted by the European Union compensation for indirect costs of CO2, from 61 million to 275 or 300, as pointed out in the Galego Nationalist Block; to approve a status of the electro-intensive consumers that takes account of the allegations, as it said; to exempt from the financing charges of renewables and from cogeneration high-consumer industries; and to continue to expect the effective implementation of the mechanisms that replace the pause rate, such as the strategic quick response reserve, taking into account the uniqueities of the highly energy-consuming industry, and, above all, to open the deadlines of the call. And we're also still waiting for that reduction in electricity prices for the electro-intensive industries. This reflection on which my first intervention is not exclusive to the group or the party I represent. So, in the past few days, once the text has been known, it has had very negative assessments by people with public responsibility from other political forces. "It's insufficient and disappointing," some colleagues who represent other political forces in Madrid said. The Government of the Principality of Asturias itself said that it would claim further compensation for the large industry, because it considers the electrointensive statute and the president of the Association of Large Energy Consumers himself, Fernando Soto, also said so. But in this first round, and of course appealing to that joint work and to that unit in the option that led us to get some very important steps, as I mentioned when I started the intervention, we have to keep in mind that we're still in time. And so said the president of this association, who said that in the memory of the normative impact of the Royal Decree of the Electrointensive Statute itself, the Ministry of Industry is open to incorporate more mechanisms to support electrointensive consumers. That's why today, and not just because Christmas is near, but because I'm not asking for anything that hasn't been asked in this Parliament -- but we are doing it right now, every time an instrument has just been published objectively, and I make this reflection in the most constructive way and appeal to the possible union -- we see the obligation to send a high and clear message from the Galician Parliament to ask the Government that these four points which in our proposal are not law today tried to explain in the best possible way they are recognized in that statute. If not, this instrument will undoubtedly not conquer the targets. And I also think there's a clear unanimity there. We all want jobs to be kept, because they are very necessary, very dignified, and we must help and commit ourselves to each other, because they are essential at the economic moment that we are living in this health, economic and social crisis. In this first shift nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Candia. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Marín Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, once again, they bring an industrial initiative to the State Government. I thought they would be worried about the situation in which Emesa, in Coiros, and about the more than eighty jobs lost in the face of her impatience; or about the situation of disappearance in which the Conservative Thenaissie, in the Grove, and her 125 workers, faced with a possible dissolution of the company; or about the 300 workers of Gamesa-Siemens, in the Somozas, in a relocation process that can leave them out of activity, while the Board looks at the other side; or about the situation of the 150 workers of Madeira Churches, in the Porriño, with a foot in the street, without the support of the Autonomic Administration. But today it's time to hear Feijóo talk about closing Navantia, when you've been leaving the company in technical bankruptcy, because of dissolution. It's a shame a government had to come up with an industrial plan to keep him standing. [[Applause]] But no, the concern of the People's Party is to use the electro-intensive status as a shield to try to hide its activity in our country and do something in industrial matters from the competences that entitle them to the Autonomy Statute. As Mr. Tellado says with his only argument -- because he's the only one, but giving him the tour -- everyone already knows in Galicia that the People's Party is the greatest possible disease for the industrial development of Galicia -- yes, Mr. Pazos --. And besides, do you know why they bring this initiative today? Do you know that, Mr. Pazos? Because of the bad conscience they must feel by a historical judgment reached by the workers of Alcoa and the state's lawyer, with the support of all the municipalities of the Navy: of Thursday and of Cervo, but also of Viveiro, of Foz, of Burela, of Valadouro... and of all those. Because you are a sect to be the highest representative of the People's Party in the province of Lugo, a true sect with your statements. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] As I said, it's a historic sentence and they don't know how to fit it into their strategy, seeing as that canteen that Alcoa was closing because of a lack of status was a mistress who only managed to put pressure on an irresponsible entrepreneur, who, of course, liked Feijóo to take pictures to take out the production of aluminum outside our country. As bad as everything gets written and we saw how an investor wants to continue with activity and production and what we don't hear at any time talk about the price of energy! What a shame to hear the Councillor of Fairy try to appropriate the strategy of State Counsel, Mr. Pazos, and the union representation to say that it was those of the Government of the State who joined the strategy of the Council of Galicia! What a shame they are, gentlemen of the People's Party! Unless the state had made it clear from the beginning, I knew what the intentions of the American company were and established a roadmap to which you joined today, once the autonomous elections were passed, for then the only important thing was to collect votes rather than the continuation of San Cibrao's industrial activity. But there's still nothing to gain, and it's necessary to continue in the strategy launched by the state and the UXT's judicial office to get an essential sale. But the most surreal of all, Mrs. Candia, is to hear you talk about industrial activity. You well know that I'm originally from Vilalba and that it's not the first time that I find her there enjoying our old zone, and when I hear who was responsible for a municipality like Mondoñedo, which has become a real industrial desert, losing all the activity that settled in its territory, unfortunately from the Mendonians, it's, at least, comical, in a council that has the record of being the Council of the Navy that most people have lost in the last twenty years. [[Applause]] I hope you don't extrapolate your management to the rest of the province as the ultimate leader of the People's Party in Lugo, since you can't live alone from what our plumbers give. Before the accusation was that the Government was not going to remove the Intensive Statute, now it is the insufficiency of this statute. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, there have been seven long years of the People's Party's government putting patches and not being able to legislate in this matter. Why? I'd like to know what the People's Party has done since the Government to legislate and give stability and future to electrointensive companies. Surely we would like a specific statute for each company in our territory. We understand, moreover, that the Statute adopted does not satisfy all our expectations, but it already said Mrs. Candia in her own intervention that the Ministry does not rule out any more initiatives in that sense. And there are independent control bodies, such as the National Markets and Competition Commission, which put their tops on something they consider to be state aid, and the limitations put by the European Commission on this type of aid. Surely the People's Party has preferred to be these seven years without developing a statute because it's easier to sit in wait and do it for others, who are looking for solutions, while you look elsewhere. In this scenario of the People's Party, the Government of the People's Party in Madrid, the current Government approved the Royal Decree Law 20/2018, which, in its article 4, included the figure of the electrointensive consumer. It was the first time that this figure was contemplated in the legal system. The creation and regulation of the figure of this electro-intensive consumer enables these consumers to provide predictable scenarios for their energy costs, reduce the volatility inherent in global energy markets and provide safety for industrial investments. In this royal decree, there are measures to support the electro-intensive industry -- all of them in line with the European Union's doctrine of state aid, as could not be otherwise -- and they create three compensation mechanisms for the financing charges for renewable energy, the extra cost of extra-pensular electrical systems and the production of electricity through cogeneration. In Royal Decree Law 24/2020 of Social Measures to Reactivation of Employment and Protection of Self-Employment and the Competitiveness of the Industrial Sector, the Government established the Electrointensive Entities Guarantee Reserve Fund, which establishes certain obligations to complete its regulation by real decree. This measure was the first step in promoting long-term bilateral recruitment of more than ten years of electricity supply, especially with renewable generators, through the provision of public collateral coverage mechanisms. This type of contract did not exist until now, because of the demands of high guarantees of industry producers. And now it approves an electro-intensive consumer status as one of the specific accompanying measures to the industrial strategic sectors envisaged in the strategy of the just transition; a measure that benefits 612 companies from various industrial sectors, including aluminium or railways. This status has as its main objective the provision of electro-intensive consumers with a legal and economic framework for electricity supply which helps them mitigate the adverse effects of their high energy costs, in accordance with Community legislation, and enhance the competitiveness of industry, economic growth and the maintenance and generation of quality jobs. The statute imposes obligations and commitments on companies in the fields of energy efficiency, R & D+i and substitution of polluting sources that electro-intensive consumers must assume to opt for mechanisms to reduce energy costs. It is also worth noting the obligation to maintain productive activity for a period of at least three years from the date of granting aid. In order to obtain the electro-intensive consumer condition, the company's annual energy consumption must be greater than a gigabyte/hour for two of the three years prior and the consumption in hours corresponding to the value tariff period should be at least 50 % of the total energy consumed. Other support mechanisms to reduce energy costs include a compensation mechanism for certain degrees of impact on electricity costs of up to 85 % of the costs attributable to charges for financing renewable energy costs, high efficiency cogeneration costs. The risk coverage mechanism derived from the medium and long-term acquisition of electricity by electrointensive consumers is also collected. The State, through the Spanish Reserve Fund for Electrointensive Entities Guarantees, will assume the cover of risks arising from the acquisition of electricity in the medium and long term of electrointensive consumers. This mechanism promotes the long-term recruitment of electricity from these consumers, either directly or through an intermediary, produced by power generation installations and, in particular, from renewable generation installations. With regard to the CO2 indirect cost compensation mechanism for industries in certain industrial sectors, it is a mechanism which is maintained until the end of this year, in line with the framework established by the Community guidelines, in the context of the trade and rights regime and greenhouse gas emissions established for the period 2013-2020. The final amount of the budget heading for this last year has been the maximum allowed by the European Commission. In 2015, 0.56 million; in 2016, 0.7 the maximum; in 2017, 0.86; in 2018, 23 and 13 % of the total; and for the 2020 call, to compensate for costs incurred by companies in 2019, the initial budget share from the 6 million euro provided for by the general budgets of the State of the People's Party extended to the 61 million euros, by incorporating a transfer from the Energy State Secretariat. And in that context, what does the Galician Union do? Nothing. And what does the People's Party Parliamentary Group do? Applause that nothing. They approve our amendment by urging the Galician Board to have its own actions by the Galician Board, such as the game for actions in the electrointensive industry included in the amendment submitted by the PSdeG-PSOE to the Galician board budget for the year 2021. Don't laugh, Mr. Pazos, approve it, support the electro-intensive industry from Galician Union. Adopt it. The People's Party to do something. Do something for the industry. Do something for the industry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u58	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u59	...as the councilman at Fairy said. They show this restless work that the People's Party does from here and they do something more than look at Madrid, which is the only thing they're dedicated to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u60	Thank you, Mr. Seco. Silence! Let's not get complicated. We have to talk about the right thing to do. If it could be, rather little, or I'd say nothing. But, well, that's another story, not to complicate. Please! [[Murmurs.]] Don't talk distance. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I mean, this is in general -- I'm thinking about it in general. Let's not talk when we don't have to. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u61	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. I wanted to begin with a reflection where Mrs. Candia began, too, about that sentence concerning Alcoa. In fact, we, from the Galego Nationalist Block, share that it's a good news, that it's an oxygen balloon, that it's very good to demonstrate justice to the bad faith that Alcoa had and that they denounced the workers, the workers and other collectives since minute one and that, of course, it's an opportunity. But it's also an opportunity that we have to take advantage of, because also what brings about that event, the sentence and all that has happened around that sentence and the previous steps and the whole history now almost two years and I peak that we take with Alcoa both in the Coruña, initially, as in San Cibrao, is that this bad faith will continue. Alcoa doesn't want to sell, Alcoa wants to go down the blind and not have a competitor. So it's time for the Galician Union and the State Government to assume that there is only one solution, that the solution is going to be the intervention, that this is an oxygen balloon to make time to do it, but that now we have to step on the accelerator and do what has not been done these months. We therefore invite them and others to respect that agreement that was first reached in Congress and then in this Parliament and that is actually in the road map. The Socialist Party has already vetoed the general government budgets to provide an account for the intervention of Alcoa. We ask the People's Party not, in the process of partial amendments, to do the same, not to make the same mistakes as the Socialist Party in Madrid, and to assume that it is necessary to incorporate into these budgets of the Galician Union, as prevention, as a political gesture of decision-making and a clear message that there is a roadmap and that there is going to be respect for that agreement, that part for a public intervention. They stop prolonging the inevitable because, of course, we do not want to be around the next session discussing the same and with water on the neck as well in Alcoa, because at this point it is undeniable that the only solution is intervention. With regard to how we come here to this issue of the electricity market, the electrointensive regulations and so on, we have a very critical reading on this path with the responsibility of the People's Party, both in the state, providing the 1997 and 2013 electric framework, and providing that electrical frame of the interruptability thrusts, which have worsened... Don't deny it with your head, Mr. Voice of the People's Party. Those who reduced their pockets from one year to six months were the People's Party, etc., etc. We have a very critical reading with you, because, even if you try to omit your history, you are not innocent on this path, you are not innocent in the history of Alcoa and other companies that have had public help and that have not had a modernization, investment and loyalty of employment according to what should have been demanded of them. They have that past, of which we do not exempt ourselves, and we are the first to criticize that and criticize the non-existent industrial policy of the Galician Union, with which we have fundamental differences. Now, we must be honest and honest, also with the responsibility of everyone at this historic moment, and, of course, with regard to the Statute of Intensives, the role of the Socialist Party is unforgivable. We've been waiting for a statute for two years. [[Applause]] I think it's not exactly the question why the Socialist Party can come here to hang up no medal of the Central Government's work, because it was unacceptable to be monthly, week by week, in the face of many conflicts that we live in this country in almost all the electro-intensive companies -- especially in Alcoa, but also in many others -- and there was no such status. We came to live in this country with questions like Mr. Pedro Sánchez came in the November 2019 election campaign and it was said that Friday of that election campaign was going to leave the statute of electrointensives. Here we live a process of allegations, in 2019, in March, and BNG claimed as a political organization, regardless of which other initiatives we also launched in this Parliament itself. We've been through another process in February 2020, and the result is that they haven't moved a comma from the draft of the statute of electrointensives. That is the result: that it comes late, that it comes bad, that it comes with a lot of consequences on the road and that it is certainly disappointing, and we share the critical reading that many agents are making, also corporate fabric and other organizations with respect to this status. For us it is insufficient, because the downside it collects does not really allow competition; worse, they open their hand with categorization than it is or it is not electrointensive that more companies enter for less resources to compensate for industrial costs; therefore, they make us less competitive. Galicia does not include compensation for being a net energy-producing territory, but is also very affected because it does not contemplate the singularity of its business tissue, which is much more electrointensive than elsewhere in the country. We also believe that there are many absences in terms of job guarantees and that the mistakes of the past are largely repeated. We do not, of course, share that the so-called "most progressive government in history" only includes the maintenance of activity as a requirement and that it does not focus on other job guarantees, on such basic issues as increasing wages according to the IPC, or also on guarantees of investment and industrial modernization. During this time, we also stressed very much that there was a bilateral negotiation between the Galician Union and the State. The Galician People's Party doesn't like bilaterality; well, sometimes, sometimes a little, yes, but they're just like that, a little indecisive. We respect that they don't like it, but we understand that the road on this road also shows that it's wrong. And on this path too, the BNG has always been on the side of the country's demands on this issue, often assuming the letter of many initiatives that you didn't even want to negotiate. So it's a way in which there are points in common, but also so that that consensus of what Mrs. Candia so much speaks of was stronger, it would be good if you had a little more political will and generosity. And today they have a chance to improve their initiative and self-amendment and to raise the smart one a little bit. Because, in fact, they do not ask for anything to be asked before in this Parliament, but we believe that, at the moment, with all the urgency we have on top of these years of delay, with the precipitation of events in Alcoa and other companies and with an economic crisis that is already here and that will have consequences also in the industrial model, because we must raise the list. We have to raise the liston because energy is fundamental to our country, not only because we are producers, but also because of the characterization of our industrial fabric, which means gross domestic product, etc. And that's why we tabled an amendment; that amendment does not pick up all the allegations I have here and that we present as a Galician Nationalist Block in February 2020, but although some issues that seem essential to correct the shortcomings of that new statute that, if not corrected, will certainly be a problem more than an advantage. First of all, I think there's something we all have to agree on, which is to raise that reduction of the fees included to 100 percent, but there's also margin to include even more fees within that proposal. We're clear on this. We need to exclude all those that don't have to do with the electrical system, such as extrapensular costs, capacity payments, the second part of the nuclear cycle and the tariff deficit, but we also understand that this has to be clear that it has to be linked to state budgets. We can't allow it to end up being an increase through the back door of the bill of the Greeks and the Greeks. And we also understand that it would be essential to include compensation for the territories that export electricity. Yesterday a spokesperson from the People's Party missed the speech of the Galician Nationalist Block of the Greek electric tariff. We don't give up on that, but there's a point that's obvious. In addition to our discrepancies, if we're talking about compensating fees to electro-intensive companies, there's a weight that is obviously to compensate in Galicia, which is transport. It doesn't cost the same for the system to transfer energy produced in Galicia to a factory that works in Madrid or Zaragoza which costs transferring energy produced in Galicia to Alcoa. So, that peax that is fundamental, we understand that it should be dismissed in 100 percent, and that if you support this measure, because I don't think they're expelled from the People's Party in Spain either, because it's something of a common sense; it doesn't need to be nationalist, it's just necessary to try to act intelligently on this issue. We also insist on that elemental question of reviewing what it is or is not electrointensive, what categories of electrointensives we do and how they integrate into our industry. We understand that this must also be used to transform the energy regulation market, the so-called pool. And finally, a lot of emphasis must be placed on job guarantees. Of course, just talking about maintaining activity we know it's going to be an open door for many companies to repeat the story of providing public resources later, eventually, ending up closing when they want it or when there's a change in industrial model. So I think this is a sufficiently serious matter, as if there was a country stance. We are willing and willing, but we would also appeal to the People's Party to have a real consensus and consensus not always to approve the proposal brought by the People's Party, and that it has brought many times before, without moving even one coma. [[Murmurs.]] So, of course, if you have a real will, more will come to campaign against the central government, which in this case must be said to be worthy and motivated, they will have us there. Otherwise, it'll be bad news for the industry in our country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Candia has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u63	Thank you very much, President. I'll try to consume as little time as possible. Mr. Seco, I don't know if your head of rows, along with Mr. Aranguena, will arrange them to do a little bit of hooligans or to come in and shoot when they assume the use of the word in a debate, of course, so important. I will not answer him about Mondoñedo, for a reason, with all humility, because the mendonians have already found him, because his party has been given four miserable years of government responsibility but they have never wanted to lay responsibility on you again. [[Applause]] And I'll tell you more, I could remind you... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Otero, don't change, you know I'm telling the truth, and I'm not going to analyze the province because you're not going to go out very well. So, don't change, don't change! [[Murmurs.]] I'm speaking to him with all humility. [[Applause]] I always say that I have come to Parliament to learn, and believe that I am giving all my attention and trying to work with the greatest commitment, but the truth is that the things I have heard!... And look at me going through debates of not much level! but here, of course, when I hear some intervention, I'm worried; I'm worried. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, I appreciate Mrs. Presas' kind tone, that I've been listening to her for a long time -- at least, what I've been here -- and, of course, she always stands out for the preparation of her affairs, which, with some admiration, I thank her, even though we disagree. But in this matter, I recognize that it is difficult to be a member of the Galician Nationalist Block and very complicated to be a Member of the Socialist Party. [[Murmurs.]] In the Committee on Budgets, which I attend as a substitute, I have a sentence that Mrs Presas said precisely. He said, "It's fucked up being the Socialist Party right now in Galicia" -- it's filmed, eh!, because when I copy something, I make sure that I heard it right, and he caught my attention because he also said it in Spanish, he didn't say it in German-- I kept that sentence. And in this matter, of course, I understand it because it's complicated. My first intervention was the most constructive, the most conciliator and trying to find -- as Mrs. Presas said -- which we have already approved here. But they will also agree with me that, if the statute is approved and has not done anything to him, I think we are more than ever legitimized to vote them back here. I ask you, Mr. Seco, what then changed between the day that Mr. Caballero, surrounded by all the mayors... And, look, no sectarian, eh! I believe that any person, with a minimal knowledge of the local administration, knows that not all municipalities have an identical impact if they close Alumina-Aluminum. First of all, just on the fiscal side. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Man! but respect me, respect me, that I am in the use of the word and what I am saying is an absolute truth. [[Murmurs.]] Only in the tax of economic activity, only in the tax of economic activity!... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u64	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u65	I don't know if they want to divert attention, but the economic impact on municipal archives is not the same. I myself defended in this same forum an initiative also seeking to secure jobs in the Navy, and with the best possible humility I even tried to explain that it not only affected the workers of Alcoa, but there were many economic sectors affected. [[Mrs. Candia López shows a document.]] And here I also have to say that the belligerence and the screams here seem to want to be done -- if the president hadn't prevented it -- they didn't take the entire Navy region. It's also true that most corporations have lent a unanimous attitude, without any cliché and all one. I don't know why they're trying to say what it isn't. But I would like to know, in order not to divert attention, why Mr. Caballero, I insist, surrounded by the entire Socialist Party of the Navy, on February 5 went to Alcoa and explained that the statute would be the solution. Why do you say this is diverting your attention? [[Mrs. Candia López shows a document.]] Gentlemen, was he wrong? You didn't go with him? You say you see me in Vilalba, and I think that in Vilalba you see it pretty little, and it's not just that you don't see it physically, is that the things you say show a pretty important distance with our neighborhood, and believe me, with our province. Well, you know, the distance seems like it's only good to protect us from the virus; for the rest, in politics, it's very bad advisor. The important thing is to always be with people. And right now, the workers, the committee, the associations, say that this status is bad, that it's insufficient, that it's late and it doesn't solve anything. If only the People's Party said it, then, well, I understand you've criticized it, but believe me, it's not just the People's Party. Although Mrs Presas' speech has undoubtedly been much better, I must also say that being a Member of the BNG in this matter is not a comfortable matter either. There's no doubt that Mrs. Presas has wasted... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u66	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u67	...a very good opportunity to explain to us what they agreed to solve Alcoa's continuity. And this doesn't hurt me, that I don't tell you with any attitude of destabilizing anyone. But that day "Something in the BNG-PSOE agreement..." Please explain to us what they agreed to. [[Murmurs.]] If they didn't meet him, it would be very good for people to know, because it's not worth withdrawing support for budgets now. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You look a lot at the past, and very little proud must be what you're doing to get to Rajoy -- if Rajoy has already thrown him out of the government with a motion of censure!, more they can't do to him!--and so he can't justify himself and really finish... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u68	Quiet, please. About the amendments...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u69	Look, the amendment of the Socialist Party, no doubt, we're not going to accept it. And in the amendment to the Galician Nationalist Block, as we still have, over the course of the day, an opportunity, we're going to try to reach some agreement. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u70	Thank you very much. Proposal for a non-law, by G. P. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Borja Verea Fraiz and six other Members, on the demand that the Government of Greece should make to the Central Government in connection with the promotion of the Jacobean Year 2021 in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u71	An amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u72	Mr Borja Verea has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u73	Thank you, President. Good morning. All parliamentary groups, both in committee and in plenary session, had the opportunity to highlight the importance of the tourism sector, the tourism industry, as a key in the economic field, with this growth reaching 11% of GDP, improving competitiveness, improving added value and providing more wealth to the country year after year. All parliamentary groups too are aware that the tourism sector is one of the most affected. For its own business object, it needs domestic mobility and international mobility, it needs some normality in air traffic -- practically in technical stopping -- and it needs to work with groups of people who relate to each other. And this is an incompatibility to the pandemic situation. So all hopes are set in the year 2021. We all follow the news about the imminent vaccination from our public sphere, but also from the private sphere, with a certain desire, need or even anxiety that things go well and that we return as soon as possible to our old normality. We cannot, as public officials, distance ourselves too far from the principle of prudence. It's something we've learned these months: the experience that we know little, the experience that we can't give anything for granted and the experience that these months, if anything were, was a great cure of humility of all scientific knowledge, of all human knowledge. And, therefore, with that humility, with that prudence, what we have of course is that the tourism industry will be key to reactivation and that in the year 2021 they will combine private interests, of course, but also important public efforts to be the year of economic recovery. That's how the Galician Union is demonstrating through budgets for the tourism department, with an increase of 50% up to 110 million euros, with a rescue plan of 37 million euros for direct aid, and to improve or reactivate consumption with new figures, such as the "Cronavirus Insurance" to ensure also any impact that can occur on a tourist in Galicia and therefore transfer that image from Galicia as a secure destination. And these efforts of the year 2021 are also being evaluated by the fact throughout 2020 -- the one that has been commented on on on many occasions Reactivation Plan, of 58 million euros, and of course also the most recent one, which is being charged right now, the Self-Government Plan and micro-enterprises --. The biggest national tourist event next year is the Xacobeo, the Xacobeo 2021. It comes at the right time, as we're saying, when these public interests and those private interests will come together. It's an opportunity we have to take advantage of, it's a responsibility as public officials. There will be -- if I didn't do the math -- about 14 Jacobs every century, 11 years ago it was the last Jacobus and, therefore, the country needs it the most. The Galician Union will take advantage of the Xacobeo, will take advantage of the Holy Year compostelan, what better way than by providing an 85 million-euro game for the Xacobeo? It will be a Jacob who will undoubtedly be difficult, it will be different, it will be uncertain, but it will count on all the political, institutional and budgetary support of the Council of Galicia and this parliamentary group. We want -- as I say -- to be a great opportunity, it has to be that great catalyst for tourism industries, cultural industries, all associated value chains. But to that end, we need the cooperation of the rest of the administrations and, in particular, of the General Administration of the State and of the Government of Pedro Sánchez. The state's general budgets are set at zero euros for Xacobeo, there is no specific match for Xacobeo. This is an anomaly and I am convinced that the PSdEG Members will agree that this is an anomaly. There's no -- we can't find it -- a rational explanation so that the largest national tourist event is not supported by the government of Pedro Sánchez. And, therefore, because there is no support and there is no rational explanation, we only have a terrible conclusion, but one conclusion: that this event is not supported because it is German and it develops in Galicia, where the People's Party of Galicia governs. As I say, it's a terrible conclusion, politically it's hardly acceptable; legitimate but it's important to correct. We're in time, there's time to correct this situation. To the PSdeG Parliamentary Group, the qualified interlocutor with the government of Pedro Sánchez, what we ask is for him to bring him to reason, to support Xacobeo as the Jacob himself deserves. Xacobeo can't be a transaction between political revenge. The Xacobeo is the heritage of all the Greeks, the Xacobeo is part of our galeguity. And, therefore, it's a matter of dignity. It is a matter of political responsibility that all governments support Xacobeo as it deserves. I therefore hope to achieve that unanimity and to be able to send that unique message. And so I hope that you can correct this situation and that the year 2021 may be that year of pandemic overrun and that may also be that year of economic recovery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u74	Thank you, Mr. Borja Verea. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u75	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. In 2019 the figure of persons employed in Galicia reached 1,095,159 people, of which 11.3% were devoted to the tourism sector. In Galicia this situation, resulting from the pandemic produced by the covid-19, will lead to a loss of approximately 7% of the gross domestic product, around 4,600 million euros. The tourism sector represents around 10 % of the total German gross domestic product, with more than 100,000 jobs. Tourism in Galicia has to go beyond Xacobeo. The autonomic executive has to invest more in tourism, the most growing budget departure is for Xacobeo. Okay, but there's no substantial increase in any other budget game. After this year so critical to the tourism sector, Mr. Feijóo's government has to make a more ambitious and transformative investment in Greek tourism. The 2021 budgets are not enough to save the German tourism sector. [[Applause]] We will continue and continue to demand that the tourism sector be a strategic sector for the public policies of the Galician Union in the face of this great economic crisis -- I will not tire of repeating it again and again in my interventions --. In 2021, like the year Xacobeo, if the current pandemic situation improves, it is hoped that our autonomous community will receive great influx of visitors. In Mr. Feijóo's words, in his investment speech, it is essential to reformulate Xacobeo. Mr. Rueda also spoke of pushing and reforming the Xacobeo 2021. Well, the Socialist Parliamentary Group called on the Commission 6 to have updated information and continues on what this reformulation would consist of what is being done on this very important subject for the economic recovery of our tourism sector. Well, the information transferred to us by the Director General of Tourism in the Commission was very, very, very little. Let's go, we still don't know what's going to consist of this Xacobeo reformulation that announced both Mr. Rueda and Mr. Feijóo. On the other hand, we would like to know the programming of Xacobeo 2021, not only to our parliamentary group but also to the whole tourism sector, the cultural sector, the municipalities and citizenship in general. You don't know sometimes that they ask us about Jacob's programming! I hope that Jacob's programming goes beyond lighting up monuments in blue and yellow. I hope it goes far beyond what they did this weekend, I hope it goes further! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] The tourism sector is looking forward to this reformulation and Xacobeo programming. I don't think this sector deserves to be seen in just a few days from the beginning of Xacobeo 2021. It's a shame! All of us here have to work for the tourism sector!, for those workers and those workers who don't know what will happen in a few days in Galicia with an event like the Xacobeo 2021! This sector is desperate. As everyone knows, the board's help isn't enough, it's just patches. And at least Mr Feijóo's government deserves specific information on the activities and how Xacobeo will develop. A minimum of seriousness with the tourist sector, a little information, please! [[Applause]] I would also like to refer to the shelters, many of which have facilities with many deficiencies or are not even accessible; like, for example, the Pino hostel, which we went to in September, to check that it's actually not accessible -- and that it's a matter why we put an initiative on commission --. I hope they make it accessible. Another important issue is 2022. It's gonna be Jacob's Year, isn't it? How's that thing? It would be nice if we could be informed of the way negotiations with the Church are going. And we would also like a clarification in the budgets. The Director General of Tourism in the Commission said it was 80 million for Jacob, Mr. Rueda said it was 85. Well, it would be nice if we could get the figures straight and agree between the two of us, please! I think there's a lot, a lot to do. They have a lot of work to do. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, a greater democratic control over the actions of the Galician Union in Jacobic matters, is seen as indispensable only a few days from the beginning of the Jacobean Year. Last November, the Secretary of State and Tourism visited the city of Santiago in support of the preparations of Xacobeo 2021 and aimed at advancing the development of the city's tourism sustainability plan -- with an investment of EUR 3 million by the Ministry of Tourism --. The Secretary of State explained that in the general budgets of the State for 2021 they envisage an investment of 26 million euros for tourist product development strategies, of which Xacobeo 2021 could benefit. The secretary also recalled that the Ministry of Tourism in Spain installed in Rome an annex to the embassy in the Holy See, in Spain Square, as a multimedia center for the promotion of Xacobeo 2021. The commitment of the Government of Spain to Xacobeo for the next few years exceeds 90 million euros, in addition to the 1,100 million euros that the State will make available to Galicia -- 90 million --. In total, there are about 150 performances in projects and running, with which the state reaches over sixty municipalities throughout Galicia. This year there were aid amounts of 20.5 million and next year there is a government aid amounting to 40.5 million; in total, 61 million to which Galician municipalities can accommodate to finance projects related to the Santiago Way -- 61 million! --. Likewise, the Jacobean Program for the Conservation and Improvement of Cultural Property is an investment, between 2019 and 2022, of 30 million euros, and consists of more than 30 projects -- 30 million euros --. Projects worth EUR 3 million are under way under this initiative, most of which correspond to various performances in Santiago Cathedral. The Government of Spain, through different ministries, has invested 20 million euros in Santiago Cathedral in recent years. The rehabilitation of the Cathedral of Santiago is being done by the Government of Spain. That, by the way, last Friday ended the rehabilitation of the basilica of the cathedral of Santiago, rehabilitation in which the Government of Spain participated. [[Applause]] Well, as far as investment in the Ministry of Transport is concerned, the architectural rehabilitation program includes actions such as the restoration of the stairway and the crypt of the Santiago cathedral workshop, which has a cost of 1.4 million, and is already running. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The Ministry of Transport also commits an action plan on road safety on the Santiago Road, with a global investment of 12.5 million. The plan seeks to improve the safety of pilgrims and pilgrims on the points of the Way that conflict with the state road network, and consists of twenty initiatives in the areas of the French Way, the Portuguese Way and the English Way, in the provinces of Coruña, Lugo and Pontevedra -- of which nine are already finished --. I just gave a rational explanation, Mr Verea. And, as you can see, there are programs in the general government budgets for Xacobeo -- budgets that, by the way, you voted against the Congress of Deputies --. The Government of Spain is supporting and will continue to support Xacobeo. The central government's involvement with Xacobeo is total, as they have just proven, although you say no, not and not, but good... and besides all these investments, you want more, and you mention Barcelona. Well, it turns out that this city has presented a project for the state to finance cultural and scientific capitality, which it did not make the Junta de Galicia with Jacob, which did not present anything, nothing! [[Applause]] That's why our group urges the Galician Union to submit to the Government of Spain a complete planning of the development of Xacobeo 2021, which includes the economic valuation of the actions included in order to achieve the economic collaboration necessary for the optimal development of Xacobeo 2021. Do the duties, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, do the duties. And I remind you that the German Government has full competence in tourism collected in the Statute for the Autonomy of Galicia in its Article 27.21. Because with this non-law proposal it seems that the competences in tourism are from the state. No, tourism competences are of the autonomous communities, tourism competences are of the government of Mr Feijóo. Don't get confused. [[Applause]] I am going to finish and I think that the Members and Members we are here have to work for tourism for all and for all, we have to work for quality tourism. Galicia has great potential in this sector, let's work to become a great tourist destination in our country. Thank you very much and good Christmas to all and to all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u76	Thank you, too, Mrs Gallego. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Pérez López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u77	Good morning to all of you. I'm going to start by saying that Xacobeo is a great product to promote Galicia but, of course, it's not the only one. And that's why we don't share that obsession they have since the Union wanted to identify Galician and Xacobeo. Having a good brand and wanting to squeeze it is good, and it must also be done -- speaking in terms of tourist strategy -- but the problem is that this identification that from June to June promotes even the hidden paroxysm the many other potentialities that our country has, or, worst of all, hides our country. Our country condition, with a brutal, rich and diverse cultural heritage, encompasses the cathedral of Santiago but also the Celtic dolmen of Dombate, the botafumeiro or the pagan festivals of San Juan in Carballo, the Holy Cross or the Resurrection Fest, the Way of Santiago or the parties of the Malpic sea. It's a country with its own language, beautiful, used by Rosaly, Castile, Calero, George Borrazás, Mercedes, Soso de Toro and so many others to convey feelings and images; language that uses my grandmother and uses her grandmother, and language that I hope my children use. [[Applause]] It's a country with a history of defense of the land, language and heritage because there was and we have to defend what makes us different, our particularities, what defines us as people. Because those particularities, our way of being, speaking and feeling are also a very good product from the tourist perspective, we're different and that's attractive, and that must be taken advantage of. But that absolute identification between Galicia and Xacobeo that powers the Union darkens all these elements that by themselves generate light, which attract as the flame of the fire. And, I insist, Xacobeo is a very good tourist product, but since BNG we understand that it is not the only solution to tourism, and less in a year that presents itself with so many uncertainties as 2021. The pandemic, which is not yet controlled, or much less, because there are still infections and there are deaths every day -- that must not be forgotten -- causes 2021 to present itself full of uncertainties. And the uncertainties, however optimistic we want to be, affect -- and much -- tourism. The tourist flows have retreated, people have changed their approach to leisure and nothing makes them think that for the coming year the situation will return to normal -- whether we have a vaccine or not, Mr. Verea --. Because, after the pandemic is controlled, you'll have to regain confidence to return to those habits that we had before the pandemic. One of these habits is to travel, and in the case of Xacobeo international tourism has a very important weight. Internal tourism won't compensate for the international's decline, it won't be enough. And this leads us to the need to bet on a new model of tourism, a model change that we have already defended from BNG before the pandemic and which now seems inexhaustible. We've said it many times: Galicia is much more than beach, gastronomy and Xacobeo, and that's why we need the redefinition of the model and the tourist strategy of our country. We have to tend to diversify tourism proposals, to bet on putting our value into action and making tourism a cross-cutting activity and also sustainable tourism. He must bet on this diversification of the tourist offer since Junta and thus complement Xacobeo. Now, it's also undeniable that Xacobeo is overvalued from the budgetary point of view by the Galician Union. There are departures for Xacobeo which are far superior to those for other fundamental issues, such as municipal financing or the tourism sector's own rescue plans. Xacobeo is a bottomless bag of the Galician board and -- you have to say it -- of the PP itself. The pumping campaigns of the PP and Board are mixed in such a way that it's difficult to know where they end up and start each other. Jacob needs clarity in his programming and in his investments, he can't just be propaganda. Because the real problem lies in that Xacobeo is leaving behind the lack of planning or tourist investment in issues in which Galicia has many potentials and which are fundamental, such as nautical tourism. Many coastal populations see in this tourism an unbeatable option to generate wealth in their ports, to create very positive synergies that would lead to the economic reactivation of these peoples, punished by the industrial grass in which the PP is converting Galicia. And that's why from BNG we have presented different amendments in this sense, to recover those ports and their use. Cultural and heritage tourism as well. Our cultural heritage is very little promoted, or even forgotten. And since we've distributed it all over the country, that relocation would make it possible to generate wealth in many places in our country. It's a safe and territorially distributive bet. And one example would be the Easter Park, but there are many more. Urban tourism, having the possibility of valuing millennial tradition and ancestral customs together with the most angry cultural proposals and offerings of our villages, is also a plus. It's an offer with a great attractive view from the tourist point of view. But already in concrete terms, BNG is in favour of investing more in Galicia on the part of the state also in Jacob, but looking for issues that will serve both the local population and the sector as well as the tourist itself, investments that last in space and time. BNG is in favour of Xacobeo and tourism in general generating more work opportunities, better infrastructure for society and a better standard of living for local population. For BNG tourism cannot be a expense, it has to be an economic return planning, how much will be collected for each invested euro. At the BNG we believe it would be much more important to make more investments for Galicia in other matters more important to our future than in Jacob himself, but we can also take advantage of Jacob to put them at the forefront of the political debate at the state level. And so the BNG would undoubtedly support the proposal contained in this initiative of the PP Parliamentary Group if it considered specific issues that would improve both the Xacobeo and the general situation of other tourism issues, such as the internationalization of Galicia with more connections of airports with European and Spanish capitals and cities, more flight frequencies, the end of the AVE to Galicia, financing of the Porto-A Coruña axis by rail, port strategy of large transits, the removal of black points in mobility of the Jacobean itineraries that travel through state-owned routes, the improvement of the historical heritage in the area of roads, studies of railways between the British and Galician islands, promotion campaigns of the Xacobeo 2021 at the first level of promotion of Turespaña, at the same level as the sun and the beach, a plan of reactivation of the tourism sector of Galicia. All this meant, on the one hand, putting our own value on it and making investments that would give rise to feedback for many areas of our territory that would extend over time rather than do it on time. But the ambiguity and inconcretion of the resolution, in which they are limited to claim a flat-rate amount for promotion, without explaining anything else, makes it difficult to support it simply. And that's why we understand the amendment of the PSOE, which asks the Board to explain what that planning is. But I can't help but frame this initiative and the amendment presented by the PSOE Parliamentary Group as a chapter more than it is already beginning to be a teeny party, in which the PP, as far as the state is concerned, demands impossible -- precisely to confront the Government of the State -- and the PSdEG counters it with amendments as presented, which still have a lot of logic they know perfectly insatiable by the PP Parliamentary Group, probably because that planning does not exist or are still working on it. And I think this is becoming a perverse and unproductive political strategy. This dynamic of the parliamentary groups of the PP and PSOE in no way benefits Galicia. [[Applause]] At a time like what we are living in, with a pandemic of uncertain evolution and an economic crisis at the doors, of which I believe that all of us here are aware, this spiral of partisan political confrontation in Parliament between the PP and the Galician PSOE seems to me to be irresponsible. And, above all, I think it's creating an important treasure in Greek society. Political and ideological divergence is totally legitimate, as legitimate is the work of opposition by the groups of this Parliament which do not support the Government, as is also legitimate the defence of the Government's actions by the PP Parliamentary Group. But I think we can't lose the perspective of being aware that what the Greeks and the Greeks expect from us is that we do everything in our hands to alleviate the delicate situation that they are going through. We present initiatives that can have a positive impact on society, initiatives that facilitate consensus. And that necessarily happens because PP and PSOE get out of that sterile confrontation loop where they are. We will support -- although sometimes, because of their formulation and intent, it will cost us -- initiatives that are basically positive for Galicia. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Pérez López. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr Verea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u79	Thank you, President. Your Honor, what is measurable is not interpretable. There's zero euro from the Central Government to the Xacobeo. There is no specific game, no direct budget for Xacobeo. I understand you had a complicated role here. And in addition to his intervention. It was a paperboard to make a rational explanation, because it's the largest national tourist event and it's not being supported by the government of Pedro Sánchez. There is no specific game and no explanation. And, as I said in the first intervention, we only find ourselves as a conclusion -- as a terrible conclusion, but as a conclusion -- that is a deliberate political action against Galicia and against the Greeks. [[Applause]] I told you, Your Honor, that I respect your intervention because it was complicated. I'm convinced it's a mix of a lot of political conviction but also of a certain party discipline. It costs me more -- or it costs me more -- to understand the position of some fellow of his party -- and I mean the municipal government of Santiago de Compostela --. There are former mayors here, there are concelers here, and the first obligation of a municipal government is to defend the city, the village, the people. And when Pedro Sánchez's government isn't funding Jacobeo, you have to go out there and criticize, you have to go out there and report and you have to go out there and defend the city. The municipal government of Santiago de Compostela is not doing so and therefore we understand that he is not being deliberative on this occasion and that he is leaving his duties. We're going to see it, we're going to see it over the next few months, but I'm very afraid you'll do as you have on other occasions, and the little diligence you've had to defend the city would have to add to the investments of the Galician Union in Chicago and in the city over the coming year. The second obligation of a municipal government is to approve budgets. The Town Hall of Santiago has not approved its budgets. At the zero euros of Pedro Sánchez will have to add the zero euros of the Socialist Government of Santiago de Compostela. We don't care, ladies and gentlemen, we have no problem defending alone this Xacobeo. We've already said it's a political bet by conviction, by political conviction. We understand that it will be that great catalyst for tourism industries, cultural industries, all associated value chains. There are EUR 85 million at the disposal of the sector, EUR 85 million behind political support, institutional support and budgetary support, because, as I said by responsibility, the Galician Union and this parliamentary group will support Xacobeo. We are not going to support his amendment because we understand that what it does is to divert attention from what is important, the government of Pedro Sanchez is not supporting the Holy Year and therefore we will not accept or support that amendment. Finally, we all want 2021 to be the year of the outbreak of the pandemic, the year of economic recovery. And we hope that, with the hands of Jacob, this complicated task may be a little simpler. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u80	Thank you, Mr Verea. Proposal by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the reversal of the full title and public management of the Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital of Vigo, as well as on the presentation in Parliament of a report relating to the percentages of participation of the various societies in its ownership
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u81	There's an amendment from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u82	To formulate the non-law proposition Mr. Torrado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u83	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. I'm going to add in this fullness to the Christmas spirit. Not so much as enjoying Christmas but the New Year's, but, well, for one thing that pays attention to Pablo Casado, I'm going to congratulate them on Christmas too. So congratulations to all and to all, and also to the Bureau -- which I think in all the congratulations that were given yesterday, there wasn't the Bureau -- and to the workers and workers in Parliament. And we also celebrate -- I think in that we all agree -- the enormous effort that health workers and workers -- especially because they're a health spokesman -- they did this year, with a recognition, in addition, to the value of science, which is the one that's going to get us out of this problem. As always, science is the one that will get us out of big trouble with great progress. So, wanting 2020 to stay behind and the year 2021 is the year of the vaccine, because it is also the year of hope and optimism. Mario Benedetti said there's no vaccine against optimism, an appropriate appointment, probably, for next year. [[Applause]] Next year is 2021, and 2021 would curiously be the year in which Galicia would have full ownership and full management of Vigo's Cunqueiro Alvaro. That was the project for the new Vigo hospital that was signed during the government that presided over Emilio Pérez Touriño, the government of which socialists are very, very proud -- and I am aware that the Galego Nationalist Block too is from that government --. Very proud! Next year, 2021, it seemed far, but 2021 won't be. Why? Because the People's Party has decided a different model. In 2009, the commander arrived and ordered to stop. And what happened happened. What happened? It happened that you responded to the previous model. In Galicia we came -- and we have to go a little further -- from the private foundation model to fund, build and manage hospitals that should be public. It happened with those foundations -- especially with the comarcas hospitals -- that were a fiasco, disaster, disaster, management disaster and economic disaster -- many of them to put on a non-opposite track some people in the system --. And it was an economic fiasco of a tiny, horrible level of management that caused that government of 2005, which entered in 2005, to face compensation, debt payments and expenses accumulated in the drawers to move those foundations into the public service. That's what happened with hospitals turned into foundations: that we had to probably pay twice as much as they could have cost, because somebody, someone!, had the idea of making foundations. That guy, by the way, was the general technical secretary of the council who built the foundations that were a fiasco for health and the Greek economy. His name was Alberto Núñez Feijóo, on the other hand, his name was Alberto Núñez Feijóo. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] That model, once it passed 2009 and changed the government in Galicia, it resumed. The public model was stopped at Vigo Hospital and a licensed hospital was built for a private company. And this is what happened: a hospital that was projected for an investment of something more than 400 million euros -- let's put 450, to round --, with 1,200 beds, went to cost the new model nearly 1.4 billion euros -- it's not a small thing -- and having 300 beds less -- 1.4 billion euros, this is the difference --. That model had large beneficiaries. It wasn't the system, not the patients, and of course not Vigo's health area. The government project by Emilio Pérez Touriño, with public funding, the Public Investment Society, changed so that the PP defined a model in which private companies would be built and granted. That's right, with the help of the Galician Union. If the business went wrong, it paid to Junta; if the business went well, it won the companies; companies that, when Mr Feijóo talks about health, rub their hands and end up being public sector janitorial, public money janitorial at the expense of health care, in this case, the vigues and vigues. [[Applause]] And this is what happens. Since then, we have seen here the pilgrimage explanations -- now that it's going to be the Holy Year -- several, many, phalsics, about that a court sentence -- which didn't talk about such a thing -- he said the hospital was public -- that he doesn't say it, he doesn't say it! -- about that the hospital is public because people don't pay -- which is the biggest argumental aberration that can be given in this debate -- and other pilgrims warnings about something the papers say it is so, that the hospital has private co-titlerity, and that concessionary society is a private society. And so he signed up. Today, in the Vigo health area there is no fully public hospital, public management and fully public ownership. And this is an anomaly. [[Applause]] It's Galicia's largest health area. Vigilants and vicars have no right to go to a fully public hospital, fully public management, fully public ownership. That's right, because Povisa isn't, and because Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital isn't. And the People's Party systematically argues that this is not true. So we have some doubts, the simplest -- for someone very simple like me -- if it's fully public, so if almost half of the hospital was sold in stock a few weeks ago, just a couple of months ago, actually, someone's selling something that's from the public system? Because then there's a scam in there. There's someone selling something that's in the public system. Similarly, following this story, there's someone who's going to sell Parliament to some company as well. Don't give me any ideas? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's true too, it's true too [[Applause]] I see some laws... I'm not going in anyway. It doesn't warm me up that... But the question is, how can we deny that there is a private title when a part of the hospital is sold? And this is the result, and it's an anomaly. Participations are sold in hospitals. And that's because the Galician Union, in a legitimate model -- that we don't share but legitimate -- offered business entities to be co-owners of Vigo Hospital in this case. What do we propose? We propose to renegotiate that situation. We understand that there are contracts signed -- 550 million euros for paying the budgets, it's in the budgets --. The People's Party manages to promise things that don't go into budgets and now they deny what they do, which is 550 million euros that must be paid, plus what to pay because it's hired like this at the start of the hospital project -- to pay things like electromedicine, which are to be paid every year, which has been paid since the first year, the electromedicine cannon, which is licensed --. It's just that this is the reality! And the PP, doing an exercise of obscurity worthy of Caravaggio, because it ends up saying here in this Parliament that it is not, that this is a lie -- it never gives any data --. And then, who are we paying 550 million euros a year? By the way, they're going to be paid today and they're going to be paid in the year 2021 -- because it's in the budgets -- more money than would be paid for the total hospital when the year 2021 was public. There'll be more to pay than we'd already paid for the hospital if the hospital's construction funding system was public. Because this isn't a road, this is a hospital. And, therefore, what we propose is to renegotiate, terminate that contract within the frameworks that clauses should allow -- because it has to be allowed --. So, how can we do that? So instead of still paying an interest of 8%, as we paid him, and agreed with that company -- that until we agreed how much we paid him of interest, little less than we had to tell us what color the document was supposed to be signed --... instead of still paying that 8%, we renegotiated today. We can face that credit. Because there are far better mortgage conditions, better credit conditions, because there are better financial conditions, and because, in addition to that, companies are selling those shares. Why didn't the Galician Board stand at any time, when Povervisa offered himself for sale, or when this part of Vigo Hospital offered to sell, to pull in? Why, if it's financially cheaper? It doesn't have to do any more with which healthcare is obviously more efficient if we manage it directly from the public system -- at least that we defend socialists, and it is, of course --. But just for an economic matter, we're going to pay a lot more money with this system. Why is the Government of Galicia insisting not to reverse a system that is giving extra fantastic funding to Acciona, now to a French group, at another time to other entrepreneurs? Why, if possible? And this is what we propose. We propose to know how the agreement is, we propose to study all the formulas and we propose to choose a formula that gives us the possibility to pay less to have a fully public hospital already. And then we will face the reality of Povisa, which it is necessary to confront it so that at the very end, as soon as possible, we have what we need and what we believe is necessary: that the vigues and vigues, Vigo's health area, have fully public assistance and fully public facilities, fully public ownership, with public staff and public management. And this is the goal and this is the debate. There are no more debates than these. The question is why the People's Party does not want to solve a question that is financially better, that health care is better, and that would eliminate private companies from the management of public health. That's the question. And we, who know that at other times the People's Party has voted against, propose again this now that reality has failed any false and pilgrim argument about the fact that the title of the public hospital is fully public. Because, if it isn't, someone's selling Sergas' goods, and little less than they'll end up selling in a market in Bangkok or Hong Kong, in the street market. That's what's gonna happen to the hospital. Then we'll end up knowing that in our hospital we're making decisions in God knows what place of the world! And it's not our proposal. We propose to renegotiate that contract, we propose to reverse it. There's the numbers on the table. We have the ability to offer Galician board the accounting made by people who know perfectly about the subject, and we are who -- and this government can be who, if you want -- to accept that solution and have less expense to have a better hospital fully public and fully public management. And that's what we brought to the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u84	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs. Iria Carreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u85	Good morning. Thank you, Mr. President. There are moments in life where we are presented with opportunities in front of our nose to improve precisely our living conditions. Usually these opportunities do come from the hand of effort and previous work, but there are occasions when chance reigns. And today we're introduced to one of these. It's also true that, in order for those opportunities to succeed, it's not enough for them to appear, it's the will to take them and make them real. He said that today's opportunity before us is the opportunity to give Vigo's health area the public health she needs. And for that, decisions need to be made in the face of participation -- of which Actiona is disaffected -- of the concessionary society of the new Vigo Hospital. This participation accounts for more than 40 % of the shares and may allow the public ownership of this hospital to be reversed. That was supposed to be a real public health bet and not go singing luminous signs that put "public hospital" on top of every building. [[Applause]] And I'm talking about recovering the public health that Vigo needs because, if there's a word that defines the health situation in this area, it's the one that's amazing. It's a health area that assists more than half a thousand people and spins over two large centers that are not public. They're not public! As much as some are forced to say that the Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital, Vigo, is a public hospital, the truth is that it's not. And that's why this year, the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia is obliging IBI to be launched, which would not happen if it really was a public health center. And one lie, as much as it repeats a hundred thousand times and another, doesn't really become. The Cunqueiro Álvaro was built with a public-private collaboration, a construction that, by the way, was initially estimated at around 400 million euros and which finally got more than tripled, and in a process that was not free competition and was characterized by being opaque and lack of transparency. The result of these decisions we now have a cannon that must be paid to the dealership and that will be extended for 20 years since the hospital began to function; a cannon that does not exist anymore to collect the investment that was made in its construction and its interests, but is also used for the management of non-health services, a cannon for which more than 70 million is paid and which goes directly to the pockets of a dealership every year. In addition, if anything has characterized this hospital during the short life it has, it is the mismanagement that the concessionaire has made of it and that continues to do it. It is inconceivable that in a pandemic context such as the present one there are now complaints of workers who are identified in numerous hospital services, and in particular in cleaning, because they do not have enough staff. We're talking about the fact that the toilets of the health personnel aren't cleaning up at the weekend, that the public bathrooms are only cleaning up once a day, and that no organisational measures have been taken to prevent the cross-cleaning of spaces struck by cowardice from those who are not. It's shocking that this happens today in a hospital that some people still want to say it's public. And this is what happens when we hand over control to private companies of such fundamental aspects as the cleaning of health centres; to private companies, which only seek greater economic profitability through the policy of costing and precaution of services. It's totally perverse that something as precious as the health of a population depends on a private company that aims at its economic profit. I started my speech by saying that we have to be able to take advantage of the opportunities presented, but it is also true that this is not the style of the People's Party government, because by the time last year he had the opportunity to buy the Povisa hospital, to incorporate it into the public network, and he didn't. And here we are today, with Povervisa in the hands of a large American group, with everything that this means for the precariousness of services -- as I was saying -- and which in the meantime continues to finance with public money. They left the health care of more than a thousand people in the Vigo area in the hands of a Voitre fund; health care that we have already reported on several occasions that is clearly deteriorating, such as the lack of staff that this hospital suffers and that puts patients in a situation of inferiority in relation to other parts of the country. Since the BNG we have maintained the position that public-private collaboration models and health management by private companies carry with them a higher cost, a lower quality of care for the population, and in addition to the loss of jobs and greater job insecurity. In addition, these collaboration models generate situations of great opacity and lack of transparency in the control of health management, as well as a loss of rights for the population and, consequently, their quality of care. But it's never late and we'll see again today how the train gets closer to get past the door. We've found ourselves today with which you act -- the company that kept most of the shares of the concessionary society -- if you dispose of them in favor of a French investment fund, still pending various authorizations. This is an opportunity that since BNG we consider a key to begin the process of reversing the Cunquer to a totally public title. And from this spirit comes our amendment as well. We are at a key moment for public health in Galicia, inserted in I don't already know very well how to call this situation, whether as the second wave of the pandemic or directly as a rocky sea, but we are abusing that once we manage to control the infection, we will have another great crisis ahead, with all the chronicity that the coward generated, with all the chronicity that has not been properly treated during the hardest moment of the pandemic, and with all the attention to mental health that will be needed in an extremely complex context at the economic and social level. And what we can't afford, what we can't afford is to see again how the train moves away while we stay on the ground again and with our hands down. It can't be the time to stand alone in the evaluations and analyses, it's time to take a step forward and make a bet determined by this country's public health. It is time for the Galician Union to act truly as the government of the country which is and ceases to be simply a mere intermediary between large economic and multinational groups. You need to act to rescue the private capital hospital by taking part in that action to convert the Cunqueiro Alvaro into the public hospital that must always have been and which Vigo's health area needs. And if you don't, if you don't bet on this purchase, then finally the People's Party government will end up portraying itself again as an enemy of public health rather than as its greatest defender. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Iria Carreira. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, you have the floor of Mrs. Egerique Mosquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u87	Good morning. Thank you, President. The construction, opening and subsequent launch of the public hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro, of Vigo, is in the last decade the greatest exercise of political hypocrisy and constant deception in Galicia by the BNG, the PSdeG and En Marea -- now absent and missing from this Parliament --. And, apparently, it has no end, it has no end. This series of science fiction full of lies and falsehoods continues, and you're still with the bat. Look, first, I'm going to quickly clarify four things in which they insist on exposure of motives and that they're not true -- after a lot of lies I'm going to talk about later --. The number of beds. You know there's capacity for over 1,000 beds, you know it perfectly well. The project. The basic project they talk about has not been changed. One thing happened: the PP passed from the model to the hospital, so it did. The budget. You make the big captain's accounts, they differentiate between budgeted, bided and hired, and out of the 550 million people who talk, they don't say they're just for construction, because they're also for equipment, furniture and their replacement. The public title of Álvaro Cunqueiro. Alvaro Cunqueiro is a public hospital. The legal standard underpinning the contract of that hospital is the State Public Sector Contracts Act of the Socialist Party. And that same system is used by you at the Can Misses Whaling Hospital, led by the socialist Thomàs Vicenç, the principal valet of that hospital and current president of Parliament. I'd like to know if you're presenting these GNPs in this parliament too. Look, I'm from Vigo, I'm over 40 years old, and for users or visitors, I know clearly, I met the "Piruli" -- the old Commander Friday -- the Mexoeiro, Povervisa and the Álvaro Cunqueiro. I know, as many Vigo Members are in this Chamber, the health reality of that city. Vigo needed a hospital, Vigo needed a hospital! And I'm going to talk about the Bipartite, because you brought it up here from the Bipartite -- that they think we should forget it, and not, because, look, we have to talk about what the PSdEG and the BNG did in the government and what they did in the opposition, which I don't know what will be more serious --. Look, that government has promised ever since a large hospital arrived in Vigo, a necessity, by the way, that Manuel Fraga had already posed in the last legislation, which was already on top of the table. They promised, but nothing, no facts. We saw models, wonderful models, models with public money that were 150,000 euros the square centimeter -- I think they would be about that price -- some models that you presented, with deployment of public offices of the Socialist Party in Lugo, in Vigo... hospitals models. There were public money from the Bipartite for models; but public money for hospitals, zero!, not a euro for a hospital during the Bipartite. Did those models improve the quality of care? [[Applause]] Did they do any good to public health these models? No, definitely not. And that's why in 2009 the Greeks again bet on the People's Party and Alberto Núñez Feijóo gets his first absolute majority -- the first of four, by the way --. Look, one of his firm and clear commitments to Vigo was to make a hospital, it was very clear, he repeated it in the campaign. And despite the crisis he was experiencing, despite the decline in budgets in the autonomous communities, he wanted to do that hospital. The priority was people and beams, the priority was to bet on public health and put the models aside. They looked for formulas, and in 2010 -- it didn't take a year in the government -- we moved from the models to the works. In 2010 we moved from the models to a real hospital, and the public money that used to be dedicated to the models, began to devote themselves to health care. Public money is beginning to be devoted to the construction of a hospital, and it already begins, in addition, the climax of the science fiction series of opposition, the Nationalist Block and the PSOE since the opposition. It was to begin the expropriations and begin the works and begin the great public anti-hospital campaign of Vigo, the great public anti-hospital campaign of Vigo!, denying everything, making up every day a false story about what that hospital was going to be when it was still in the foundations, a campaign of lies, falsehoods around Vigo's new hospital and which caused much confusion. They've generated a lot of confusion, of course, but time gives and takes away reasons. Look, twitter was a bottle of lies. That "minister of truth," which you say, is that today I wouldn't bear any of the lies that you've been saying for five years without stopping. Look, the first traps, boycotts and lies are those of the Vigo Town Hall itself. I think any mayor in the world, when they took a hospital to their city, would put a red carpet. The mayor of Vigo said no, it was the first to say no to the hospital. If it were for the socialists and the socialist mayor, his beloved Abel Caballero, Vigo today would not have a hospital, we would be in the pirolli, we would still be in the pirolli! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Yes, sir, check the hemero library and review the statements! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] It's good to make this journey, it's important. Look, then, in 2010, that history of political hypocrisy, that anti-hospital campaign, a science fiction script crafted by BNG, PSOE and En Marea; with protagonists of relevant left-wing politics saying phrases that can be checked today, such as this: "They're going to charge for sleeping in the chair of the room" -- lie -- ; "The hospital is going to be private" -- lie -- ; "They're going to collect food" -- lie -- ; "It's full of rats" -- lie -- ; "It's going to reduce their capacity to half" -- lie -- ; "They're going to impose copier on patients" -- lie -- ; "The lack of laboratory is going to kill people" -- lie -- ; "The doctors will charge for giving discharge" -- lies, lies and lies --. So many lies! [[Applause]] So many lies! [[Applause]] Look, despite all those lies, which, as I say, would not bear a line of their ministry of truth, despite all the lies, the giant would grow, the hospital would grow, grow and really bear all that. Now you say they want to renegotiate. But renegotiating what, renegotiating what, if they're not trustworthy, if they're lying permanently. [[Murmurs.]] Look, I have to refer to the socialist mayor of Vigo, because once the hospital was built -- I want them to know as well, because they don't know -- Abel Caballero denied the water to a hospital, Abel Caballero denied the light, Abel Caballero denied access to a hospital in his own city -- and I repeat that because that's true, you can go over the hemerothec --. Nevertheless, Feijóo and Junta de Galicia's commitment to Vigo's health was firm, and in 2015 the Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro was a reality. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And you, with the only goal of getting Alberto Núñez Feijóo out -- who finally did a hospital -- and getting the People's Party out of the joint, convince thousands of people to get out on the street -- telling them those lies that I said --. [[Murmurs.]] Because it caused confusion. I was summoned to this demonstration as a vigue, and I was also called to this demonstration. And they manage to get thousands of people out in the street. But on the eve of the autonomic elections, in May 2016, when they want to repeat that film, they're left alone, they're in half, the nostalgics, those of their party and the people who go against the Government of the Union, and not all the hospital users or the vigues who got cheated. Look, do you know why they stayed alone in 2016? [[Applause]] Because there was no way to hide the lies anymore, because the hospital went for a walk and went for a walk, without taking chairs or food or hats, no rats, no ghosts... gentlemen, a new hospital, exemplary, modern, comfortable, wide and public! A new public hospital in Vigo! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And they're still with the farmer's mackerel and they're still with the boycotts. Because I have to tell you that in Vigo the municipal road that goes to the Cunqueiro Alvaro is unfinished, it is poorly lit, it has no borders. And a neighbor who lives in Beade, Valadares or Bembriva, which is 100 metres from the Cunqueriro, has to take a municipal transport to the city center, to Spain square, and then climb to the Cunqueriro because he has no proper public transport line. Because the mayor, in the King's Square, lives on the edge of the Helmet. He doesn't care about the chef, he just cares about one thing: to take pictures next to the minister, because he just doesn't go, he goes with the minister, he just doesn't step on it, but with the minister, yes. [[Murmurs.]] It's such a big hypocrisy -- really, I mean it -- that no Member who lives in Vigo will be able to say here that it's not true what I'm saying today. Look, ladies, they wanted to make the Cuncher a political weapon. They're still using the Cunker as a political weapon. They add up to the greatness of a hospital like this. Because, look, we're, really, at a time of pandemic. Do you know what would happen to us in this pandemic without the Cunqueiro Alvaro? The doctors think they know, the doctors in this Chamber think they know. Did they realize that they wouldn't have saved so many lives in the vault-19 if we didn't have that infrastructure? They've been dressed in other city halls with beds, which is not only the staff -- which is fantastic -- but it's the infrastructure itself. Are they aware of the moment we are and the important role played by the Cunqueriro in Vigo and Galicia, the Public Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro? Look, why did Minister Illa choose Vigo and choose that hospital as an example of Spain, and also accompanied, of course, by the mayor, who had to join the photograph? He chose it, in addition to pretending and saying it was an exemplary laboratory, because the Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital is all we said it would be, and even better. This bench was telling the truth, while that bench was just lying! The lies in the attack on Feijóo, the lies in the attack on public health did not work in front of the facts. [[Applause]] I'm telling Mr. Abel Caballero, Mr. Gonzalo Caballero, Mr. Galego Nationalist Block and Mr. En Marea. They're still in denial, they're still installed in hospital denial. And what they say is that it's a management system that's more expensive to the Greeks is not true. Health care is public, Álvaro Cunqueiro is public and corresponds to Sergas 100 percent in property rights. They're proud to pay such high-quality health with their taxes, they're proud at once. The outsourcing of many of the services would not have to be the subject of debate. If you in the deputies and the municipalities are the champions of the concessionaires! Hypocrisy! [[Applause]] A hypocrisy, really! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u88	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u89	Finished, President. At the beginning, I said that in the last decade, the greatest example of hypocrisy, of blatant political deception lived in Galicia -- actually, barefoot -- is written around the Cunqueiro Alvaro, with the falsities of the PSdeG, the BNG and Podemos. I think it's time for you to apologize for a hospital so much needed right now for Vigo and Galicia. Merry Christmas and health to all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u90	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u91	Thank you, President. First of all, I want to thank you for the tone and intervention of the BNG. I'm confused with the amendment, first of all, because we don't understand how the initiative changes and therefore we don't understand its presentation either. There's a point, yes, which is to acquire right away... well, there's a debate about it. First you must want to sell the owner. I'm saying it because you can't go expropriating around here for life. So we don't understand it very well either. We thank him, yes -- given the tone in the plenary -- that it wasn't an amendment against the Government of Madrid. Because, well, given the story, too... but good!, no malice... Tódorov said that the best way to empathize with the other is to try to find what is agreed, and I understand that they are in that process with the PP, looking for points in common to know also how to attack the political rival, which is not... but, in any case, we appreciate the tone and we know that we share the idea of the initiative. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] And to the People's Party: of the proposal what? Don't you? [[Strong murmurers.]] Because, as you talked about everything but the proposal... It was because I wasn't clear. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] All right, all right, all right, not the proposal. [[Murmurs.]] All right! I'm saying that because of some things that have been said to be very interesting. First I'm going to quote Mr Verea -- who is not --. He said first something very sharp: that what is measurable is not interpretable -- and I think it's a Galileo paraphrase, if I'm not mistaken --. All right, what's measurable is not interpretable. We're going to measure, and I'm saying that because you mentioned several things here, and, as always, the election result. But in the same story, put the electoral result and the criticism of Abel Caballero. I'm saying that because you're in Vigo, if you have to give validity to the election result and you want to criticize Abel Caballero, that's what you have to look at. That's the same thing to make him look! [[Applause]] I mean, it's legitimate, it's legitimate... I mean, what's measurable is not interpretable. [[Applause]] You quoted the election result and spoke of Abel Caballero. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] All right! Yeah, don't worry, let me talk. [[Murmurs.]] If nothing happens! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Che, che, che... that we're finishing now! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We're done! [[Murmurs.]] Okay, so from there, if what is measurable is not interpretable -- Mr. President, if I know you're very interested in this debate, in addition --. [[Strong murmurers.]] If what is measurable is not interpretable, and it's all a lie -- because he said it's a lie but he didn't say what is a lie --. [[Strong murmurers.]] But with some data, if possible, because you mentioned that it's a lie even the amount of what we're talking about, that if it wasn't the amount... well, okay! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We're going to try for three things: first, the amount you've been hired for; if the person you've been hired and awarded is a private company or is publicly owned; and third, the actual sale that was made recently of a part. About the real sale, Acciona sold -- 448 million euros cost the sale from almost half of the hospital --. If it's fully public, there's someone selling a hospital. Look out for the thing, someone's selling a hospital. You can't argue in the same sentence that's fully public and there's a company selling half of the hospital. That can't be done. On the second question -- on the amount --, look, I've got something in front of me that's very interesting, and it says an amount of 1,378 million euros. It's a contract. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela shows a document from the stage.]] It's a contract -- and so we solve two things -- to a private company called "Concessionary Society New Vigo Hospital" -- that you systematically deny because they say you didn't hire a dealership, which you haven't been granted --. This is the contract -- I'd give it to the president, but I know they already have --. Then you're denying there's a contract. Yes, I'm not as smart as you, Mr. Paz, but I can read. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You read it. [[Strong murmurers.]] All right! I can read the company's CIF, and I'll read again the amount: 1,378 million. [[Murmurs.]] It's more... yes, man, of course we're going to read the services! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We read the services given to other hospitals. You signed a contract on Vigo Hospital and provided services in other Vigo hospitals -- curiously also in Povisa --. So if you want to deny that there's a company selling half of Vigo Hospital, they have a problem, because then somebody's buying something that doesn't exist and somebody's selling something that doesn't exist. So, from there on, if you're capable -- if you're capable -- explain how it's possible there's a fully public hospital! And from then on there's someone selling. And, said this -- and calling Christmas's good wishes again, and trying to, I'll learn how to read as the People's Party says -- I remind you that the 550 million that are there in the pending payment budgets are not for services, because they are in the cannon game. So they're not services, services go anyway. [[Murmurs.]] So let's see what we call the cannon and what we call services. Calling everyone to some good parties -- and remember that it's okay to meet the rules, Mr. Feijóo, from time to time, even if it's from time to time -- to see if among them all may be that next year's best possible year within the circumstances. [[Strong murmurers.]] And from that, I think, among all of us, we're sure to agree... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u92	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u93	...in that next year will be better than this.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u94	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u95	Let's work for it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u96	Silence! Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u97	I wish you all a good year. Thank you very much and good year.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u98	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[Strong murmurers.]] A little calm, please! Take it easy! Christmas Spirit! [[Murmurs.]] Let's just calm down. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] We have to vote, which is the most important. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please! Let's vote. We've been here for days and it's beginning to be... [[Murmurs.]] Let's take this with a little calm; if not, this... my God! It's still late, eh! Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u99	We begin by voting the Non-Law Proposition of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, on the initiative of Mrs Noa Presas Bergantiños, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the European Funds Yes Generation..., pardon Next Generation. I'm very Greek about this. [[Laughter]] [[Laughter]] The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is not accepted. [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Tellado, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u100	We want to call for a point of order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u101	Dots? But is it about separating some or...? How many points are there, Mrs. Presas? Three? [[Mrs. Presas Bergantiños answered from the scene.]] Do you want to separate the three? How? A separate vote of 1 and 2? Two of them? [[Murmurs.]] Just the 2nd? We separated point number two. Let us vote, first, point 2. Voting of point 2 of the Non-Legal Proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantinos and three other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the European Funds Next Generation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 58; abstentions, 14. The voting is positive. Point 2 of this non-law proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u102	We now vote on the rest of the points, i.e. 1 and 3. Voting of points 1 and 3 of the Non-Legal Proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantinos and three other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the European Funds Next Generation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 18; votes against, 40; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. Paragraphs 1 and 3 of the non-law proposal are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u103	We are now voting on the non-legislative proposal of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Mr. Jose Luís Bará, on the demands to be made by the Greek Government to the Central Government and the actions to be carried out in relation to the title, maintenance costs, management system and plan of use of the Peace of Meirás. Amendments tabled by the groups are not accepted. [[Mr. Puy Fraga asks for the word.]] Yes, Mr. Puy, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u104	Yes, Mr. President. We also want to ask for the separate vote, and to separate the points relating to Galicia's assignment from the management of the palace, from the combined use of the figures of Pardo Bazán and whom he has stripped the palace, and also separately, and in this block, from the homage to the memory associations that over time fought for Meirás' recovery.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u105	Mr Bará, do you accept? Man, we're on Christmas, aren't we? [[Notice of Mr. Bará Torres.]] Not in this proposal either? [[Laughter]] No, no, no, no. Well, bad luck. You don't accept it. [[Murmurs.]] We vote. Vote of the Non-Law Proposition of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and three other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government and the actions to be carried out in relation to the title, maintenance costs, management system and plan of use of the peace of Meiras. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 18; votes against, 40; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u106	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Ms Patricia Otero Rodríguez. The amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group is not accepted. We vote. Voting of the Non-Law Proposition of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Patricia Otero Rodríguez and D. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the approval and establishment by the Government of Galicia of a specific protocol of action for the cases of positive in Covid-19 among the crews of the ships arriving to the ports of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u107	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mrs Elena Candia, on the demands that the Government of Greece must make to the Central Government in relation to the price of energy for electrointensive companies. I was pending a transaction. Give your voice to the scene. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u108	If you'll excuse me, I'll read the deal with the BNG. "The Parliament calls on the Council of Galicia to call on the Government of Spain to adopt the following measures: Increase the allocation of indirect CO2 compensation by 2020 to the maximum permitted. Remove the generation tax of 7%. To analyse the possibility, with the National Markets and Competition Commission, of modifying the fees to reduce electricity prices and reduce the differential with the rest of Europe. Furthermore, Galicia requests that the interrupting service resume until the one set out in point 4 of this agreement is resolved. Approving the Statute of Electrointensive Consumers with the allegations made by the sector and the Galician Union, thus marking the roadmap to provide measures similar to those enjoyed by industry in Germany or France in the medium term. Expose from the financing charges of renewables and cogeneration industries with high energy consumption. Implement the mechanisms that replace the interruptability thrusts, such as the rapid response strategic reserve, by completing the uniqueities of the highly energy-consuming industry and by seeking an early opening of the call deadlines. And, lastly, to review the consideration of the electro-intensive industry, so that the highly dependent nature of the energy of the Welsh tissue is properly collected, because the approved status distorts the condition of electro-intensive." We vote. Vote of the compromised text of the Non-Legal Proposal of the People's G.P. of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Marta Nóvoa Iglesias and thirteen other Members, on the demands that the Greek Government must make to the Central Government in relation to the price of energy for electrointensive companies. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 58; abstentions, 14. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u109	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Borja Verea. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is not accepted. We vote. Voting of the motion for a non-law of the People's Party of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr Borja Verea Fraiz and six other Members, on the demand to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in connection with the promotion of the Jacobean Year 2021 in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 58; abstentions, 14. The voting is positive. Consequently, the non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u110	Finally, we voted for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mr Julio Torrado Quintela. The amendment of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group is not accepted. We vote. Voting of the motion for a non-law of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela and three other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Galicia in relation to the reversal of the full title and public management of the Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro, de Vigo, as well as on the presentation in the Galician Parliament of a report relating to the percentages of participation of the various societies in its ownership. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u111	The votes were finished. We continue the agenda, with the interpelerations. Question by Daniel Castro García and three other MPs, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the percentages of expansion of the broadband
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u112	To formulate the plea, Mr. Castro García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u113	Good morning, thank you very much, President. Good day to all and all. Today we bring to the plenary the subject of the long band, after taking it several times to Commission 6a for different reasons. But this does not take away the need to continue to debate and talk about this issue. And that's for two reasons: because there's a lot of work to be done, and also because unfortunately there's a lot of work that hasn't been done. And it's just that, as we've seen, over the months of the pandemic, the coward, in addition to creating a lot of problems -- lots of them, of course -- has added others and made them more palpable. In the case of what we're going to talk about, the long band better added to us. And I'm saying it added because these eves, the eves that we have in connection, in digitization, in technologies in general, have already come from before, they already came before the month of March 2020, when all this began. Both the student and the workers as well as the companies already suffered the point of departure as bad as this country was. But, of course, what happened? That came to the vault and put in sight of all the Greeks and Greeks the evil that we were, it was shown very hard. He showed up in the student that he couldn't receive telematics classes, or that he had to travel to other places to be able to receive telematics classes. It was also shown in the student who had to move from village, even from house to house in full confinement, in order to perform telematics. He was shown up in the working class in Galicia, which sometimes it was impossible for him to telework, in a long, long et cetera. And this is what you owe? -- because this is what we have to go to. Well it's due to a lot of things, but we're going to announce two today, to which the Galician Union has not heeded either, or the European Union, but -- which is worse -- or its own plans. I mean, Galician Union didn't pay any attention to itself. And now I'm going to explain it in a brief chronology. First of all, it failed to meet the European Union's target of reaching a hundred percent of broadband deployment by 2020. But, well, let's say it's not that it's understandable, because they've had many years to do it, but compared to the next, still good, the level decreases. Because the bloodiest thing is that the Galician Union failed to comply with Galician Union's own broadband plans. And let's start with the first one. We start with the 2010-2013 Broadband Plan, and I'm going to say Amtega's own words, are not my words: "The 2010-2013 Galicia Broadband Plan seeks to enable broadband access to the whole of Galicia's society as one of the main engines for Galicia's development, placing it among the reference regions in the development of new technologies and infrastructures for the information society." It seems that for 2013 it wasn't, it didn't come, and then it came up with the following, which was called the Long Band Plan 2020. And again I'm going to read again what Amtega himself said: "The 2020 Long Band Plan, adopted on 1 October 2015 at the Board of Trustees, assumes the objectives set out in the Digital Agenda for Europe to ensure at least 30 Mbps broadband coverage for the entire population and boost recruitment into broadband homes of more than 100 Mbps." Again, very good words, with goals I think shared by all and all that we're here. I hope they do, but at the time of truth, because as if not, they haven't arrived again. And then, we're done with the new one, this one's just created, it's out of the oven. There's nothing: the 2030 digital Galicia Strategy. The name is more beautiful, the name is more laboured, the truth, and in which, in addition to talking about a connected Galician, artificial intelligence and cybersecurity--very important, of course, it is impossible to deny it--, Amtega also indicated: "Faezóo focuses on digital connectivity with the goal of reaching one hundred percent coverage with 100 Mbps networks in 2025 and getting a more integrated and connected Galicia." Let's see, it's not because since BNG we don't want this not to be fulfilled, let's hope so! But seeing the connecting history of the government of Feijóo, I would at least be a little bit more cautious, because maybe I would stay in a corner of the sun. But, well, from the BNG we wish you the best of luck, because, if this is done, it will be a great advance for our country. But now we're serious. After these eleven years of long-band plans and empty policies, what is it that really hides?, what is behind?, what are the actual data? Let's say the following. First we're going to start by covering according to the technology used -- data from the Ministry of 2019 --. ADSL coverage equal to or greater than 2 megabits per second, no panacea -- I don't think this is what we want to get to, or much less, here I think we all share it and all -- : half spanish coverage, 70.02%; state average, 89.64% -- Galicia at the last post of the Spanish State --. ADSL coverage equal to or greater than 10 megabits per second: half Welsh, 52.71 %; state average, 71.56 % -- Galicia again in the last position of the Spanish State --. Coverage by FTTH (fiber to the home, fiber at home): half Welsh, 50.30 %; state average, 80.36 % -- Galicia, in the last position of the Spanish State, and in addition to much, since the penultimate autonomous community, which is Extreme, is at 63.49 %, and remember that Galicia is at 50.30 % --. And to finish, we moved from the technology used at the speed, to the speed coverage, which also serves to measure very well the point at which we are. Coverage by speed equal to or greater than 100 megabits per second -- which all experts and experts say is the advisable speed for the twenty-first century -- in 2020, that all Greeks and Greeks could have no problem in our homes: half Welsh, 66.12%; state average, 83.57% -- Galicia again in the state queue, in this case only in front of Extremeura, which follows us very closely --. But let's go further and look at the results from provinces, from those provinces that are most needed, those provinces that need more digitization projects, connectivity, that is, the most rural provinces, such as Lugo and Ourense. Well, I remind you that the state average was 83.57 % at a speed equal to or greater than 100 megabits per second. Lugo has 56.03 % and Ourense 56.81 %. And before that, of course, here we could be done, because before this, what do we have in answer? Well, a little bit the expected, the triumphalism in budgets, the triumphalism in the appearance of the director of Amtega and a rise in budget figures that are not useful to cover up this disaster that we have in Galicia in the long band and that I have just described. And that's why we have to ask him what the performances the People's Party has planned to put an end to this situation, which belongs to the last century rather than to the 21st century in which we live. And it is that, first of all, we need to act in the light of the realities of the country in which we live, the realities of the country that they rule, because I am already ahead of one of the excuses that the PP will probably use. That we have many nuclei of population and a very old population. Well, all right, but this is exactly what makes it most necessary that we make some policies that we thought about in the country from Galicia and to Galicia, because in 2010, with the first broadband plan we already had 33,000 nuclei of population and a very aging population, and now surely we have several nuclei less, unfortunately -- among other things because living in rural and having access to technologies is almost impossible --. Well, then, they rule for this country, because this can be a good summary for all government action. They can do a lot of things, they can do a lot of work and they can do a lot of work, but if they don't govern the features our country has, they can do a lot of things, but one thing they're not going to be able to do is succeed. And to save them perhaps another one of the excuses, which is aging, I want to tell you that the fact that we have an aging population doesn't mean that this population doesn't use technologies, because there's something called "digital literacy," something that seems to the People's Party doesn't go through. But you can do it perfectly, and there are already some mechanisms that need to be implemented. You can reach all population nuclei with SmartRural plans, or with long-range wifi--also called WiMax--, which you don't need to carry the fiber to the last village in the farthest corner of this country. There are plenty of other methods. There's a lot of methods to do this. For example, if you want to also make the aging population use technologies, because you develop digital literacy plans, for example by boosting what already exists, such as the number of lessons CeMIT, and by providing them, above all, with specialists, dynamizers, enrolled in these classes. Because this is a measure among many. But without it, what happens is that later the results of October, in which Galicia was the autonomous community of the whole Spanish state in which less internet has been used in the last three months, with 87.4% against the state average of 93.2 %, and being the only one that does not reach the barrier of 90 %. Of course, then we have to laugh and watch out that, as we have an aging population, because we make less use of the Internet. No, this can be solved, and this aging population also has the right to access technologies and the Internet. For now, nothing else, and we have demanded that they take this seriously, because, if it was already important before the pandemic, now obviously, as we all know, it is vital. Thank you very much, and I expect your comments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Castro. Mr. Martínez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u115	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, the Galician Union is fully aware of the importance of communications in the economic and social sphere, and even more so at a time as the current one, since connectivity in homes and businesses has become -- I agree with you -- an essential factor in the performance of both work, personnel and schoolwork. And yet -- and it's not a chascarrillo either, I think it modulates very much, Mr. Castro, our reality -- yes, I have to make a reference to that in Galicia we have these 30,000 nuclei, 40% of what there is in Spain of population, and which conditions very much. But we must also take into account that 90% of these nuclei have less than 100 inhabitants. This feature, coupled with the dispersion of our country's own population, makes the extension of ultra-fast broadband networks in our territory highly complex. That is why it is a challenge for operators to be released, despite the fact that they have subsidies from administrations. In addition, it must be borne in mind that the coverage of telecommunications networks is not only provided through fixed networks, whether they are ADSL or fiber optics, but also the wireless networks, both 4G and, more recently, the famous 5G. Having said this, I want to express once again, and without any kind of chascarrillo, even if it is the third time, this Government's commitment not to spare efforts and to face efforts to ensure territorial vertebration in this area, but we must not forget a first issue, Mr. Castro: always without forgetting that competition in telecommunications corresponds to the central government -- theme number one --. This commitment -- you already referred to it -- has already begun to materialize in 2010, actually in the first broadband plan, to start spreading networks of more than 100 megas. We have managed to bring this service closer to more than half of the Greeks, and to place ourselves as one of the first regions at national and European level that have driven the new generation networks, following the guidelines contained in the European Digital Agency. And it was possible because at that time we were counting on the management of Feder funds to extend the telecommunications networks. And not now. And why not? Because the state is what counts with this kind of fund. In addition, it should be borne in mind that, following the adoption by the Royal State of Decree 462/2015 of 5 June, autonomous communities need state authorization to launch thrust actions on broadband networks. This has made the participation of autonomy to meet Europe's 2020 objectives complicated, both by reducing Community funds - - as I said a moment ago - - and by submitting to the Central Government's approval of initiatives. Nevertheless, since June we have continued to devote resources to extending the ultra-fast networks, and in 2015 we launched the Long Band Plan 2020 - which you also referred to - - but financed in this case with which we had - - which are the EAFRD funds, less content than those that were at the time, the Feders, and always trying to supplement it with the calls of state aid -. Because it's very easy to swallow the skills, to stay with the funds, and then the problem is administration, let's say, interstitial. Let's say we're all in, we're like an elephant, which doesn't stick us in the tail. In particular, we receive authorization for initiatives aimed at the extension of networks of more than 100 megas in cores of less than 300 inhabitants and in business polygons. In business polygons, Junta performed a performance through the R-cable operator, which allowed the provision of fiber optic coverage with capacity of more than 100 megas -- even 500 megas -- to 81 business parks. This initiative, which ended in 2018, counted on a public investment of 3.3 million euros - - as I told you, EAFRD funds - - that allowed us, together with the previous coverage, to now have more than 93% of the business area with fiber-optic coverage. And in addition to the deployment of polygons, two calls for aid were made to facilitate the connection to companies in areas without coverage. More than 80 companies benefited, which were able to connect to the Internet between 30 and 600 megas, and the investment was about a million euros. And as for population nuclei, 95% of the population was already in 2019 with network coverage of 30 megas or more. The forecast is that at the end of 2021, 90% of the Greeks had networks of more than 100 megas, an increase of 29 percentage points - which is not a little - about the coverage that existed before these actions began. In particular, fiber optics will be approached to an area of more than 11,600 nuclei, which are rural areas, because 96 % of the nuclei have less than 300 inhabitants; and 89 % of them, less than 150 inhabitants. These figures will have to add the targets that will be achieved with the pending actions of the Central Administration. In the area of education, in collaboration with the State - not everything is wrong in the State - the initiative "Connected Schools" has been launched, which has enabled the provision of 100 percent of public primary and secondary centers for connection to ultra-fast networks. In addition, all the judges in Galicia have access to more than 100 megas. Likewise, since June, we've been working on fibre coverage in historic centers. After the request of many municipalities, we insisted on the importance of connectivity in mobility -- I'm referring to 4G, both voice and data -- because this was not taken into account by the State in its actions. So since June we've been transferring several times to the state - which is competent in the matter, as I said at the beginning of my intervention - the need to update the regulations, and we demand the modification of the current universal broadband service, to include not only the right of citizenship to a fixed phone and internet of 1 mega in the homes, but also the coverage of mobile, internet and voice. Given the lack of action on this issue by the Central Government, Junta is working for the launch of an initiative to improve mobile coverage in Galicia. After the management we're doing to analyze the possibility of this measure at European level, we're on the test -- for your approval -- to be able to make a call to deploy networks that allow mobile coverage to rural areas with disabilities. This performance is coordinated with the Fegamp - - of all colors - as well as with the municipalities interested in providing coverage for the populations that today lack this service. In this context, the Galicia Plan 5G of the Union defines complementary measures to which are found in the national and Community strategy in this field, and we are also urging the State to achieve an improvement in the quality of the current network through multiple requests that we are making. In that sense, we have recently adopted here, in parliamentary committee, a PNL of the People's Parliamentary Group -- which has also relied on the support of its group -- which urges the Union to address the Central Government to ensure that it ensures and accelerates the execution of the Feder funds - - the competence of the State - to achieve a minimum coverage of 100 megas for 100 percent of its citizens. Your Honor, for Europe connectivity and 5G are the cornerstones of recovery and the drivers of digital transformation, which is why they are collected in the new mechanism of recovery and resilience. Since June, we will once again urge the Central Government to prioritise investment in the most rural areas, specifically in the less than 500 inhabitants, where 40 % of Galicia's population is against 6 % on average at the national level. Having said this, of course, completely conditions the numbers you have just used, because being true all and each of the indicators you have just used, they will understand that 6 % versus 40 % totally changes the result. And there's no need to be a great deal of understanding either in mathematics or in statistics. No more, until next time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u116	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[One person from the House services comes to disinfect the stage.]] For the replica round, Mr. Castro García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u117	Thank you very much, President. Good day again, Mr. Martínez, I haven't named him before. Well, I seem to have hit a little bit by predicting the excuses of the People's Party: age, dispersion -- we already knew that, as I told them. We knew it in 2010 and a lot earlier. It obviously affects! Of course it affects, of course! And that's why we've touched on the BNG that we have to act on the reality of the country. But, well...! And I'm going to set a good example for you that this government, through the Amtega and in agreement with the Fegamp, did. I think it's the way you should continue to know the reality that our country has of the dispersion of the nuclei of population with few inhabitants, because they have made an agreement to lead the coverage to 94 municipalities and within these 94 municipalities to 1,000 places. That's the way to go. Well, also so you know the point we left, of these 1,000 places, 400 have no voice coverage by 2020, and we're going to 2021. In places like Gondomar, for example -- that's not that it's at the top of the Anchors --, they're still out of voice coverage, but well... Next point: it cannot, of course, be that, even if the State has to provide funds, which has certain dependencies, it is the easy wild beast always to say that it is the State's fault. Sovereignty exercises and also complains, because what it can't be is being here blaming Madrid all the time without claiming anything, or just complaining -- in an unheavy way -- when there's no government friend in the government in Madrid, but good... This, this position of shielding itself from the characteristics of the country itself, does not prevent them from boasting themselves day and day also from the "rural laws", that the Greek Government protects the rural, that it cares about it, and that then there is data like this and it remains as if nothing. Because we repeat to them that, in order to establish rural populations, we have to offer the same services in education, transport, culture, infrastructure and, of course, in the connectivity offered in towns or cities, because only when there are at least similar services can we start serious rural population policies. Because soon what happens is that Galicia is the territory of the Spanish state with more areas without coverage of new generation broadband networks, and there is no provision for its staffing by any operator within three years. Today I'm giving a lot of data because he asks us many times, he says we need data -- and today, data chatter --. What's that supposed to mean? Well, nothing more and nothing less than being left out of this service, 485,000 Galicians and Greeks. Is this support for rural? I don't think so, because it's not politics taking them into account. And I've got more data, because I've been carrying them today. That's enough. More than 13,000 German population nuclei still have no fast-paced band. We blame the state, because Galicia has 28 percent of the areas without advanced connections from the total Spanish state, and I don't see the People's Party comparing -- as it does with other things -- with data from "we're less bad" or "we have less bad data." Hell, here we are the last in everything and we don't pretend about it! As I said, 121,000 homes that can't access connections above 30 megabits. You said at the end of 2021 90% of the Greeks and Greeks would have access to the speed of 100 megabits per second. I've already told you and we encourage you to do political work in search of that, but unfortunately, we see it hard. And for this, another solution is that Galician government from Galicia and to Galician. We repeat it again: a strong position -- and we've reached the agreement the other day in Commission 6a -- before the funds that are coming from Europe for digitisation, a country position -- that also, as I said in committee, to receive digitisation funds, you have to have something to scan, because, if we have nothing in rural that we can scan, it's for nothing --. Well, as you've been repeating in this already third full day, and within that wonderful Christmas spirit, because I want to wish you all and all a good Christmas and health, both to you and to your families, which is obviously the most important of all that sounds the easy phrase, and also to remember a little what the Generation We and the Galician Party said -- and also, of course, Daniel Castelao -- that of "Galiza's cell of universality." Well, of course, he was right: Galicia's cell of universality connected to itself and connected to the rest of the world. With nothing else, thank you very much, good Christmas and good health.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Castro. [[One person from the House services comes to disinfect the stage.]] The councillor for the Fairy and Public Administration has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u119	As Mr. Castro said, see if I'm going to forget myself, too, that I'm very naive. Merry Christmas to all! I'm not going to sing, like Mr. Mini yesterday, a panxolin that we also have from Aldan, but well... "Come to Aldan's sons..." [[SINGING.]] [[Laughter]] Despite everything, it's also good to have a little bit of... I'm bored, I understand... I understand that I'm boring, Mr. Castro, but, look, there's a good reality that we all have present, because we frame the difficulty of what we're talking about, which is no other than this. [[Laughter]] [[Laughter]] [[Mr. Martínez García shows a chart from the stage.]] Look, I'm gonna leave her here so you can have her, too. This is where population nucleus segmentation is. That's where we clearly see how common our occupation of the territory with respect to the rest of autonomous communities is not so bad, we are practically the same. But where is the differential factor, which is in the cores of less than 500 and less than 100 inhabitants, that's where the big problem exists. I've explained to you in my first intervention -- you, who says you're so right, you keep right, eh!, that it's not wrong to hit it right from time to time, you keep right -- that there's actually a competition that's original that's from the state, clearly -- that not everything is deployment, and you have to accompany both companies, as well as individuals, as operators, in that deployment --. But whose original competition is it? The more than 4 billion euros in Feder have those who have them. I wish we had them, apart from competition -- as if we had until 2015 --. And let's see that in 2015 there was a central party that was the People's Party. This is also another People's Party, what I'm talking about. I'm not throwing rocks, what I'm saying is that it didn't benefit us. We could do it in a more accelerated way at first, and a little less later, by having to get a hand on the EAFRD, which, as you know, are also very important but which have another orientation of almost customary character, which has to do with other very necessary actions in the rural field as well. So far we've agreed. At the moment, what I have to say to you is that we will continue to urge the State, as a competent body in this area, to give priority to updating the regulations, because it is not just the question of operators. There is also a need to amend the rules on universal broadband service. That's where the point is and -- connected to it -- the number of funds so we can act. I think there's positive data that they're also telling us that there's an upward trend in internet recruitment. We went up quite a bit because we also came from where we came from, from a lower level, and that's why we went up more. Let's not put on any medals either. But we're going where we should go, and we're not so bad. What if I tell you, it's a little younger, and it has to gradually progress properly -- I guess, and, if not, it's not my problem -- is that it calls my attention again as the Block looks good on everything. First of all, we're talking about something as complicated and as complex as connectivity in general in rural areas, not our German rural environment. Bring a particular example, which was the case of Landrove, in Viveiro, and makes no reference. I want to forget that you're also forgetting and thinking more about Christmas, because what you brought here -- that was the excuse for Landrove's industrial polygon theme -- you didn't make any reference. I'm not going to do it either, because I'm always going to try to answer to whoever's questioning me; but it would also be good not to try to stay well with the general character, and at Landrove, when we go there, with other questions on the other side, and then, when we have to defend in a rostrum like this particular issues, neither pious. So happy parties to all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u120	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[One person from the House services comes to disinfect the stage.]] We moved on to the next interpellation. Question by D. Martín Seco García and Da María Leticia Gallego Sanromán, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Greek Government in relation to negotiations between wind promoters and landowners
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u121	To formulate the plea, Mr. Seco García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, Mr. Count. I used to say yesterday -- I think it was -- Mr. Balsairo, so in a light tone, that the BNG could skate in Madrid -- I'd almost tell you they were in tandem -- to oppose the state government. And maybe when they come back, they might also remember that they're here to oppose and control the Government of Galician Union. Galicia had strong wind development from 1997 to 2008, thanks to the existence of the wind resource in our territory and a regulatory framework that fostered the deployment of wind power stations. With the entry into the Government of Nuñez Feijóo came the failure of the bet by the sector, coupled with the legal insecurity created by its government, all this in addition to the policies of blocking renewable energies that took place from the Government of the State under the presidency of Mariano Rajoy, which caused a paralyzing of the growth of the wind sector until 2018. And I'm not saying it. You always get data, but what the data say agrees with what the Wind Observatory says and even the Juana de Vega Foundation, which I don't think is a separatist entity. From 2009 to 2018, both included, with the governments of the People's Party in Galicia and the state, only 277 megawatts were installed, and this was a millionaire loss in investment in Galicia and the failure to create thousands of jobs. In 2019 it returned to Galicia the increase of power installed in wind farms, with 415 megawatts and 18 new parks, almost double that installed in the previous ten years. And by 2020 it will reach close to the 4,000 megawatts installed in our territory. The forecast for the 2020-2030 decade points to the construction of some 4,500 new megawatts, which will be more than double the current installed power. But I'm not going to go into the war that you have with the Galego Nationalist Block between the framework that existed in 2009 and what you put on with your legislative changes. I want to talk about the present and the future, how we can correct the shortcomings of the current system, how we can continue to bet on renewable energies, correcting the various problems that are paying for the municipalities, the rural communities and the owners, as well as the defense of our natural heritage and our productive sectors. The success of the installation of this wind power in recent years was the result of a highly determined regulatory framework, especially in the declaration of public utility for the projects and the condition of the land, which was decisive in the different expropriation processes. This regulatory framework had positive aspects, because it increased installed capacity and helped fight climate change, but introduced inequalities in negotiation and a lack of transparency towards landowners, rural communities and municipalities. The regulation they made envisaged that the benefits of wind should be shared through industrial plans or solar energy promotion plans, but many of the operators lacked such an industrial plan and others did not make the approaches to that promotion of solar energy. The Galician Union has seen certain Community benefits indirectly, but has finally failed to exercise its supervisory function in the face of company failures, which must return some of our resources to the territory. Similarly, there were also non-compliances with the environmental impact, as 50 % of that installed power is in areas of the Natura Network. In Galicia the success in the growth of the installation of wind farms has been achieved without participation, causing with time social and environmental conflicts, such as those we are currently living with the social mobilizations that appear by the municipalities concerned and the judgments that begin to appear before the complaints of citizenship, such as that of Sasdonigas, in Mondoñedo, or that of Oribio, on the Lugo Mountain. At this time, when the sector is experiencing a relaunch with the new auction recently approved, Mrs Novoa, for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, it is important to correct the mistakes made in the past with a new model that must democratise the wind system, first of all benefiting the fight against climate change; secondly, the creation of jobs; thirdly, the defense of our natural heritage; and finally, greater participation in the profits collected from our natural resources among the municipalities and affected communities -- that is, among all our citizens -- balancing the negotiation between the installers and the owners in a transparent process that is a further tool to fight against the manly depopulation of our rural population. Why don't you put in place, Mr. Conde, mechanisms to promote transparency, so that owners have as a model a standard contract to negotiate with wind farms promoters? What's the problem with the People's Party not doing it? Why do you not agree to establish a public base of information on the prices achieved in negotiations between the affected parties in the installation of an wind farm, Mr. Conde? Why are they afraid of the transparency and support that our citizenship needs? As I said, the regulatory framework gives the promoter the possibility of changing towards expropriation with the request for a public utility declaration of the parks, and the formula, if it does not harden, is negatively affecting the owners in the negotiation of the income they pay them. The autonomous administration does not promote mechanisms for transparency and information towards owners, local communities and municipalities; and authorisations for wind exploitation do not have an expiry date. Find formulas to have a place to go when a promoter approaches their homes to talk about the installation of an wind farm. Why don't they set up a technical-administrative and environmental advisory office from the Administration? What's the matter? Why would they rather turn their backs on our neighbours, Mr. Count? Neighborhood, communities and municipalities do not receive adequate compensation for the installation of parks in their territory. We ask you to correct the insufficient return of the Environmental Compensation Fund and the wind canon in the municipalities affected by the installation of these parks, that the cannon be established by the installed power now that mills are introduced of greater power and that the collection of this fund - set up in an opaque manner by its government - act directly on improvements in the municipalities and in the local communities affected by the installation of the parks, which is fair, Mr. Conde, when the Galician Wind Observatory reports that local income for landowners where the wind farms are installed is only 5% of all billing generated by the said parks. The environmental protection of the territory is inadequate with the deployment and repotencing of the parks in places close to the homes and areas that should be more protected. These are issues that concern us -- and they should worry about you too --. We are not making Bolivarian or Bolshevik proposals, we do not want to paralyze the wind development of our land, we simply consider what should be debated and consensual; that is, a new wind model with measures to democratize the system, to establish balances between owners and wind promoters and of course not put at risk our natural wealth and the primary activities of our territory, not to affect opacity and lack of participation with new legislative texts, which speed up deadlines and privatize environmental inspection while they do not put the means to help our citizenship. There are multiple complaints we have received from collectives from all over Galicia about how new wind farms projects are appearing throughout our territory without seeing orders or planning from our autonomous administration, turning into areas of sacrifice places of high environmental and cultural value, with a multitude of projects fractionated in front of their eyes and violating the Vigilent Legislation. What can you tell me about what's planned in Outes, Mazaricos and Black? Don't you think you're dividing a project where there are already four parks and if you're planning four more with your evacuation lines? Don't you see the fractionation, Mr. Count? And what do you think they want to do between Orders, Curtis and Messia, four supposed parks that should be one? There's no fractionation either? And all of this is linked to the absolute inability to make industrial politics, a competition that gives them the Statute of autonomy and to which you renounce. Galicia suffers from a worrying loss of industrial activity and are unable to attract new investments and anchor existing ones. Where is the Industry Council, now renamed Economic Vice-Presidentship, Mr. Conde, in the extinction of Emesa, abandoned by the Galician Union and the Igape? Where are the industrial policies to try to save from relocation the Gamesa-Siemens factory from Somozas to Portugal? Nothing, gentlemen of the People's Party, absolutely nothing!, just hide behind what they do or stop doing to an absolute project failure for the productive sectors of our country, something that no longer escapes anyone in Galicia, and that is also reproduced in the agro-golden sectors by this methodology established by the People's Party. They speak to the farms located in the rural areas of high agricultural content previously exposed, such as Mazaricos, Orders, Messia... did they speak to a national reference company located in the municipality of Messia, with enormous effort to develop an extensive and ecological activity, which sees how their activity is at risk for the installation of 200-metre mills at the doors of their exploitation without anyone opening the doors to their concern at the Council in Galicia? We must work together to develop a new integral wind model with the participation of all sectors involved, which solves the problems posed by democratizing the wind system and which is beneficial to all. We're still in time, Mr. Count. We've come to talk about the present and the future, not the past. I hope you do, too. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. Seco. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Government response. You have the floor of Mr. Second Vice-President and Economics, Enterprise and Innovation Counsellor, Mr. Conde López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Seco, I'm going to answer the question by talking about the present and talking about the future, but above all I'm going to do it rigorously, and above all not trying to confuse, Mr. Seco. It is not reasonable that you come to confuse and try to generate uncertainties about specific regulations that exist and are being applied. That's a real irresponsibility. I'm sorry -- to start my answer -- is that you repeat the same arguments as the Galician Nationalist Block. I deeply regret that artificial dispute that you have as partners of the opposition and that you try to move to the wind sector, to an economic sector. I really believe, if you have some kind of artificial dispute to see who leads the opposition, that they should certainly solve it in another direction, but not in an economic sector like the wind sector. They even repeat erroneous figures and arguments, as in Mrs. Presas' intervention of the last plenary and today. Listening to this, we have made it clear that the Socialist Party of Galicia does not seem to know the principle of non-contradiction. It is a classic principle of logic and philosophy according to which, Mr. Seco, nothing can be and not be at the same time and in the same sense. I'm telling you, it can't be that the Socialist Party in Galicia defends and attacks at the same time, and with the same arguments, the Greek wind sector. On the one hand, they criticize the paralysis of previous years invoking their contribution to Galicia as a source of investment and job creation. Yes, forgetting to say that this paralysis was due to a profound economic crisis that socialist governments were unable to solve, either in Spain or Galicia. And besides, generating a tariff deficit of about EUR 30,000 million, left as an inheritance by the Zapatero government and that the government of Mariano Rajoy, as you well know, could drown and convert into a tariff surplus -- that even now the socialist government, once again, is turning into a tariff deficit --. And, on the other hand, Mr Seco, they criticize that in 2009 we were able to put 439 megawatts into operation, palliating the transition to forced marches imposed by the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and its government partners. But he forgets it again. It does not say that an environmental assessment procedure is being applied that is adapted to European legislation -- and to the national framework that transposes it -- and that, therefore, it is being guaranteed, Mr Seco, all the maximum protection that is laid down in European legislation and national legislation. That's why I'd ask you not to come here to confuse yourself. He also knows that it is forbidden - - forbidden, Mr. Seco - in the case of Galicia the location of new parks on the Natura Network since April 2014, and restricts its repotencing. Don't confuse yourself, Mr. Seco, it's forbidden in Galicia to develop new wind farms since April 2014. He doesn't intend to confuse citizenship or, of course, the wind sector. The question is, the question is, surely, whether you are or are not in favour of applying that regulation and we are actually betting on the wind sector. The most inexplicable thing, Mr. Seco, is that they make this double game a situation of enormous uncertainty in the sector. You know it was possible, thanks to the intense work of the staff of the different offices, the development and the functioning of 439 megawatts. And you know perfectly well that success -- because it was a success, Mr. Seco, it was a success -- it was developed thanks to the thrusts of renewables convened in 2016 and 2017 by Mariano Rajoy's government. I should recognize him, because he did. And you know, therefore, that the situation that we have to recover from the wind sector has a very clear source in these renewables. Mr. Dry, returning to the beginning, as I said, of no contradiction, you know that you can judge as false what is incoherent. And in this sense, I remind you that both your party, the Socialist Party of Galicia, and the Nationalist Block of Galicia during the Bipartite, have put into operation the 35 projects that the People's Party has processed. That's the reality, Mr. Seco. That's reality, and that's the data; some data that are the best antidotes to rhetoric, which is what you come here to do in an irresponsible way against an economic sector that generates jobs, which is generating wealth in Galicia and which, above all, is allowing you to address the energy transition process in our country. Your Honor, you tell me about the public utility and expropriatory processes. Do you know that wind farms are declared of public utility by a state law? Do you know that? Do you know that the expropriatory process is regulated by a state law? Finally, Your Honor, in Galicia we are applying state law as other autonomous communities are doing. That's why perhaps he should be a little more prudent, because everything he's trying to impute to the Galician People's Party and the Galician Union is actually imputing it to his own government as he processes wind farms and other autonomous communities that, regardless of their political colour, are applying the same regulations. However, you know that the wind law of 2009 - - I remind you because it does not seem to have all the data - states that, in order to request the declaration of public utility, promoters have to present the relationship of affected goods and rights on which they have not reached an agreement, and also have to present all the agreements reached with the holders. And that request for public utility goes in, Mr. Seco, public information before a decision is made. But I'm going back to the data, which I've already transferred to the previous full. The percentage according to the eighteen parks that started in 2009, Mr Seco, was 85 %, 85 % according to. Even in certain parks, such as Montes de Abella, in Pastoriza, Roderio, Carracedo, Minion and Zas, almost 100 percent of agreements with the owners. I therefore sincerely believe that there is no kind of justification for the doubts that both the Galician Socialist Party and the Galician Nationalist Block, in their virtual rivalry, want to generate around wind energy. The administrative processing carried out on any wind farm has all the corresponding legal, technical and environmental guarantees. They know perfectly well that this process includes a process of public participation in which citizens can have access to all the information of all projects and present all the considerations they consider appropriate. And, of course, they know perfectly well -- citizenship knows it, it seems the Galician Socialist Party and the Galician Nationalist Block doesn't -- that the Galician Union does not authorize any project that is incompatible with environmental protection or sustainable development. So, Mr. Seco, please stop generating unfounded doubts, stop damaging a sector that generates jobs and generates industry. And, speaking of industrial policy, I'm sorry that you're trying to get away -- from the point of view of industrial policy -- from the point of view of energy policy. That's what I'm going to answer, because it's really just a lack of awareness of the importance of energy policy -- which depends on the state -- on industrial policy -- which depends on the autonomous communities --. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u125	Thank you very much, Vice President. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the replica round, Mr. Seco García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u126	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Count, I think it confuses us. There's no kind of dispute, it's not a dispute that we have the Galician Nationalist Block and the Socialist Party. What is there is a shared concern about the situation in which many citizens of our territory are now experiencing an absolute imbalance that exists in relation to the negotiations that are taking place between owners and promoters. And it gives the feeling that you -- what we've asked you for the first time in these last two months in a question, later called the Nationalist Block Galego and spoke on a motion, and now you're talking about -- it goes on to talk about the same issues, about the previous one and about issues that are not currently posed as problematic. They continue to dodge continually from talking about issues that affect citizenship, those that vote for you, too, those that so much like to look at and give them the absolute majority. It's such concerns, Mr. Conde, that they have their own mayors, who don't know very well who to turn to when a wind promoter reaches their Town Hall. And you keep looking the other way. Initiative after initiative we've come to ask them to look at issues that are above the table, which I think are not such complicated issues to analyze, such as the topic of the model contract or an advisory office. And you have no answer to that, Mr. Count, absolutely no answer to that. No mention of the contract register, which we demand so much!, absolutely nothing! Nothing to talk about the cannon with regard to the electrical repotency that the mills receive and, therefore, the return they have to get to the Town Councils! Absolutely nothing! No one's asking you for strange things. We're asking you to listen to those who are putting a lot of problems on the table, to ask them to help, that the Galician Union be an entity to help them, to advise them, to engage them in that wind business. The uncertainties--as you say----you believe, you, Mr. Count, with the judgments that are arising lately in the judges. Because it still doesn't answer why they allow the fractionation of wind farms. Don't you see? Don't you see what's going on with projects that's on the table and that I'm putting you here? Don't you see anything at all? Will the same thing happen in other judgments that we're watching right now? I think they should take note and give solutions precisely to the problems that are being put on the table, because the logic is to go correct those beings that generate self-administration with the new systems. And so we don't understand why they're unable to sit down and negotiate with collectives a new wind model and why they're unable to give more participation and transparency to a process like this. I hope in the reply you answer to something about this that we're continually insisting on. And I don't want to end up without wishing everyone else too -- and you too, Mr. Count -- happy parties, and that this new year we don't lose sight of who we work for. And I wanted to do it with a liturgical text by Bernardo García Cendán, one of the people who taught me to believe in public service and in love for my land, and who also played our colleague of Parliament, José Luís Rivas Cruz, who says: "I believe in the living Christ, in the one who leaves sweats in the office, in workshops, in networks and in tractors. He lives in the faith of those who fight for the land mother to welcome all children in peace, without anyone having to leave. I trust in the burning blood and anger of those who love waiting for a new world that with their advance effort. With the strength of our people, today I proclaim my creed. I want to be a young man because I'm born again in Greek." Thanks a lot to everyone and happy parties.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. Seco. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. Conde López has the floor of the second vice president and councillor for Economics, Enterprise and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Seco, I also logically use it to wish you and all Members of Parliament good parties. And I appreciate the literary reference, but I think we have to put poetry aside and talk about a sector as important as the wind sector. I have to move you that I deeply regret your position of questioning that the Galician Union continues to apply the regulations. By the way, speaking of the wind cannon -- to answer your questions concretely -- you voted against the wind cannon, you know that, right? And now it turns out that the wind cannon is absolutely decisive. Home!, because I appreciate that support publicly, and I simply transfer that wind cannon is a project that captures, from an environmental point of view, the environmental impact that air carriers have. That's why it's applied to the air conditioners and not to the power that each one of them has. In any case, I would like to say that I welcome this support for the wind canon, because it is actually having important returns and, in some ways, benefiting from the environmental impact it has on the territory. I'm sorry that you doubt that this government does not respond to mayors and collectives, I deeply regret it. First, because he's missing the truth. He just does it because of a perception you have. There's not a single mayor in Galicia who doesn't have the information he needs at every moment on any wind project that develops in Galicia, both mayors and any collective, Mr. Seco. Don't hesitate to question the work of this government from the point of view of transparency, information and legality, because that's how you're generating a doubt, you're trying to damage a sector, just to oppose the government. But that, frankly, doesn't take him anywhere. You tell me about Sasdonigas. He knows the judgment is not firm, and logically we're analyzing the filing of the resource, because from the Administration we understand that there is no fractionation. That's what it meant from a technical point of view. I refer to the data, the park of Sasdónigas 1 was granted in 2004 by means of the corresponding summons. And Sasdonigas 2 was awarded in the 2010 competition. Home, accuse the Administration of a park fractionation policy when a park is requested in 2004 -- and it is authorized -- and the other one is requested in 2010...! You'll tell me where the administration's fractionation policy is! In any case, we will logically analyse that judgment and present the corresponding appeal -- logically respecting the position in this case of the Galician Court of Justice --. Mr. Seco, when you ruled, the windman in Galicia went backwards, we all know. And it seems that now they want to block it again, in this case also relying on the Galician Nationalist Block. I'm sorry you didn't even do it at the moment, nor do you want to let it go now that there's really a chance for Galicia. I am simply passing on to you a context: there is a need for the sector to facilitate administration from an administrative point of view and, at the same time, that administration is guaranteed from the point of view of compliance with environmental, urban and heritage regulations. This is what we understand in 2017 by approving the Business Implementation Act, which has enabled more than 500 wind megawatts to operate in the last two years. And now we are moving back, because the sector and the current situation in the economic and energy context calls for these business projects to be further facilitated. We present the Act of Reactivation, which includes important measures for the wind sector, and we, Mr Seco, are really going to measure whether the Galician Socialist Party and the Galician Nationalist Block want to support the sector and whether they want to facilitate the development of these projects, ensuring at all times the environmental, urban and heritage impact. We'll see if you really support the wind sector or just want to do with the political wind sector and opposition. And that would be very regrettable from the point of view of the economic and social impact on Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u129	Thank you, Vice President. Change in the development of the plenary session.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u130	We are now making a change to the agenda, which has already been communicated, and we have raised a question to the Government, to Mrs. Presas Berganginos, of the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block, about the valuation... No, but here's Mr. Fernández Alfonso's substance. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Is that the other way around? [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] All right. [[Pause.]] Q. Ramón Fernández Alfonzo, G. P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the assessment made by the Galician Union of the situation of the thermal power plant in Endesa, in the Bridges, according to the latest news
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u131	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u132	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm sorry, but this wasn't the information my parliamentary group had. And I am also sorry to hear from Vice-President Conde because, on the subject of an indisposition by the honourable Member who put this question to him, I will ask him. Having said this, Mr. Conde, you know that for more than a year now, since Endesa had communicated the decision to close the thermal power plant, there have been multiple demands in our country, multiple mobilizations that have led to claim a fair exit from that situation, because the blow to employment would be absolutely brutal on the Bridges, of more than 2,000 people according to an estimated impact on the condition, which goes from the coal carriers and the workers themselves and workers of the power plant to all the conglomerate of the auxiliary industry, and even beyond the impact that it would have on the economy of the municipality directly as in the economy of the environment. We know that during this year, different political initiatives have been moved -- which have also been transferred to different agencies in which to seek a solution --. And we're worried about the moment we're now. The possibility of producing energy through biofuels was a hypothesis that was committed to studying the thermal power plant, it was a possibility that was above the table. You know perfectly well that if you've been testing, but it seems that the roadmap explicit by Endesa through your public statements is to move forward with the closure regardless of those results. And we suspect that, first of all, because you're getting rid of your own staff and moving it away from Galicia; and secondly, we think about it also because at the time of truth Endesa is greatly restricting what the tests are, you're doing 50% with biofuels and 50% with coal, and you're already vetoing important possibilities to experience other possibilities that would be more sustainable and that would ensure greater viability so that a part of the plant could be transformed into cleaner energy production. In this sense, we are concerned about the latest news in the media regarding discrepancies within the technical committee that follows the evidence. It seems that Endesa's determination is clear. And in that situation, Mr Vice-President, we are concerned about what we see in the central government, but we are also concerned about the passivity we see in the Galician Union, and we are concerned that there seems to be no plan "b" for the district of the Bridges. Therefore, since there is active and united development by political forces and institutions in other latitudes that we don't find in Galicia, we are concerned about the situation generated. Today I hope your answer is high in sight, I hope you will put Galicia before your permanent campaign with the central government, who will put Galicia before you also of your permanent self-excusation. I think we're in a very important moment for the future of the Bridges.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u133	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u134	We want to ask you today what is your plan "b" and we want to ask you today how you value the situation in Galicia regarding the latest news.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u135	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. Mr. Conde López has the floor of the second vice president and councillor for Economics, Enterprise and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The truth is, Mrs. Presas, is that I am sorry that you refer to statements in the media, to perceptions that you have about the evidence that is being carried out, etc., and that I do not ask the Government directly, which could probably give you much clearer information. But you have already prejudged your position simply by what is published in the media without knowing--I insist--what the Government thinks. It's an intervention which is an exercise of political hypocrisy -- if you allow me, Mrs. Presas -- of political hypocrisy. And if it weren't for the situation that the families that depend on the bridge center are living, I'd even tell you that it would be a joke of bad taste. Now that the Galician Nationalist Block comes here trying to move its concern about the bridge situation is truly surprising. It turns out that the Galego Nationalist Block knew that the central's contribution, between wages, taxes and the purchase of suppliers, was EUR 38 million. It turns out, using their own figures, they knew it generated between 1,000 and 1,400 direct and indirect jobs. They knew, Mrs Presas, that 217 million euros were being invested in the power plant to adapt the power plant to the new industrial emissions directive -- by the way, investment, among other things, thanks to the intervention of the Galician board --. They knew, Mrs. Presas, that the hasty closure of the thermal power stations was not necessary, I knew it. They knew all that, and they knew that their partners had a very clear idea of closing down the power station. And they've been in government for two years, and they haven't had any planning yet. Look, Mrs. Presas, they're confused if they think the people at the Bridges don't know you're behind the bridge power station, they're confused. The only allies that the workers have and which has the entire region of the Bridges are the Unity of Galicia and the Town Hall of the Bridges, because we are working precisely the two administrations to find that solution that gives a scenario that keeps the plant operational. [[Applause]] That's what we're looking for. The tests are being performed, the results are not yet closed. And, therefore, the Council, the workers, the Council of Galicia and the Transitional Ministry are going to evaluate these tests and we are going to defend that an industrial solution can be maintained for the central of the Bridges despite the position of the Nationalist Block Galego. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u137	Thank you very much, Vice President. For the reply, you have the floor to Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u138	Look, Mr. Conde, you have already bored your prefabricated and tired speech of permanent opposition to this country's first opposition force. Honestly, hypocrisy is yours, which comes here saying who's the first time in history that we ask you about the situation of the thermal bridges. Counselor, it's not even the first time this month. Even last week we were discussing in committee whether any proposals within the framework of the European Projects of the Galician Union were or not for the Bridges, and you only silenced yourself. For which, hypocrisy, justice! Because you also come here saying that we don't ask you about the evidence, when it's what we're doing. Well, look, he sends the information to this Parliament, which we are not diviners, Mr. Conde. But of course, what is hypocritical is that they also accuse others of having some kind of responsibility in this accelerated closure, when here those who rule are you, Mr. Count. I could ask for that responsibility if we're ruling, but that's not the case, Mr. Count. You know you have responsibilities that you are not fulfilling. So today what we ask of you are very clear questions: what plan "b" has Galician Union? You have a very important meeting today at six o'clock. I hope you don't go with the same tone of macara and empty proposals with which you come to this Parliament and have a proposal and an alternative "b" for the people you're going to meet. And I also hope you'll give us some kind of explanation for why the Galician Union does not act swiftly on this matter. Because, look, comparisons are hateful, but, like in other industrial crises in this country, it's sad to see how you sell an alleged participation in the country team and then we see that there's no documentary evidence of that, that the country team is translating into specific issues in other latitudes and in Galicia not yet. I suppose you'll have something to say about that, or you'll have something to say about the Asturian example: "Principal, Institute for the Right Transition and Municipalities closes a list of sixty performances for 93.1 million euros." This is happening on the border with the community, very close to the Bridges. What's the Galician Union doing so The Bridges don't stay behind...?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u139	Thank you very much. For the Government's reply, Mr. Conde López has the floor of the second vice president and adviser of Economics, Employment and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Presas, you should look after your language, just for a theme of the Spanish Royal Academy, simply. Just, just! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But, in any case, I regret that you understand that you bore him information, data and rigour. I understand it perfectly, because you are dedicated to making political sectarianism and simply a negationist policy. What they're doing here is denying employment, denying industry, and just hiding in a situation using, unfortunately, that situation that the bridge workers are going through to just make politics. And I don't think that's what the bridge workers deserve. [[Applause]] Look, Mrs. Presas, the Galician board knows perfectly what your skills are, perfectly. And answer for them. But you also know perfectly well that energy policy is a policy of state competition and that, therefore, any decision made about thermal power stations in Spain is a decision taken by the Government, the government you are supporting, Mrs. Presas, because I remind you that in January you agreed in Madrid with the Socialist Workers' Party Spanish and with Podemos. They agreed in Madrid, Mrs. Presas! And they concretely agreed to the closure of the bridge power station. That's how they recognized it in that agreement between the Spanish Workers' Socialist Party and the Galician Nationalist Block. They were in fact closing the bridge power station. Man, please, please, a little bit about memory, a little bit of respect, because the bridge workers deserve respect and you are not respecting them. And that's all right! The government decided to make a decision to close the bridges that you supported. And this government, along with the Bridge Town Hall, is working so that it can have an industrial viability and, therefore, that with these tests, if they can give them a solution so that workers can maintain their jobs and also transporters can have a solution. And we're obviously working on the energy transition, but first we want to maintain an industrial solution for the Bridges, and that's why we're performing the tests. We are going to fight, together with the Council and the workers, so that, if these tests give technical and environmental viability, there will be a commitment by Endesa and the Government to ensure the operation of the power plant over the next few years. And, of course, we will continue to work on a fair transition solution that the Government of Spain, unfortunately, had not prepared. I had decided to close but I had not prepared what was the alternative, and you supported that position, you supported the closure of the bridges from the very first moment and you should apologize to the workers. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u141	Thank you very much, Vice President. We are now back to the point of questioning. [[Mrs. Presas Berganginos asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs. Presas, why do you want to use the word?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u142	I wanted to ask for the floor on the basis of Article 77.2. This parliamentary group calls for the reading -- if you can read it, as president -- of a document within the framework of the debate: the point concerning the thermal power plant of the Bridges in the investment agreement, which so much likes the People's Party, to make sure that what Mr. Conde has just said is a lie.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u143	I'm sorry, I don't have the point of that agreement available here No, but don't worry, I think that in the debate itself, Mrs Presas, I think it is sufficiently clear. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We continue with the next interpellation. Question by Mr Paulo Ríos Santôme and three other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Bloc, on the policy of the Italian Government in relation to the labour situation of young people
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u144	To formulate the plea, Mr. Ríos Santôme has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u145	Thank you, President. Counsellors, ladies and gentlemen, from the Parliamentary Group of the BNG we are now bringing to this plenary an inquiry into the labour situation of this country's youth. Official data account for the desperate situation of young people in Greece as well as their working conditions, as well as the ability to have a job and also the ability to have a project of life as a result of economic independence and emancipation capacity. The youth labour market has as characteristics the temporality in contracts signed, which account for more than 90% of the total contracts signed by young people in Greece, very low wages, less than the average wage received by the whole of the Greek society, and an unemployment rate close to 30%. This has to be added to a cumulative job destruction in the last eleven years of 46% of what has to do with youth employment. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the panorama faced by the young people of Galicia for many years, without the Government of Galician Union betting on the generation of quality youth employment that allows the population to be fixed and that the young women of Greece have a gift and a future worthy of our land. The Government of Galician Union does not bet on youth, it does not bet on a better future for our country, and one of the most tangible consequences of this precarious work and unemployment we see it in the continued expulsion of the Galician youth to other parts of the state and the world. Because the youth that emigrates from this country to Madrid, to Barcelona, Seville, Tenerife, etc., is also emigration. We have to consider it as such and don't cheat on the data. There's a juvenile emigration that's moved away from our country about eighty thousand girls in the last decade. In the last month of December, a report by the Galician Economic Forum was made public on the problem of the escape of talent, which is nothing more than this same forced emigration by being unable to have opportunities for life and work in Galicia. This report estimates that our country - and not I say it, but it is also collected in the press and in the report itself - loses between 178 and 311 million euros a year from the university education of girls who cannot produce and generate wealth in the country and have to do it outside to survive. This same report brings the figure of 1,500 births less per year in our country because of the youth that is out there, and it also figures in 315 companies that cease to be created in Galicia because of forced emigration, of that expulsion of the young man from Greece because of how their working conditions are in our country. We have a country with an unceasing demographic decline, with an unprecedented industrial crisis and where only 17 percent of the young people in Greece are economically independent, while 64% of girls under 30 years of age - as the Galego Institute of Statistics well says - have to resort to continuing living in family residences because they cannot access a housing. Could you explain, Counsellor, how it is possible that in the past eleven years the Galician Union has not carried out any successful policies to reverse this situation? With the arrival of the coward -- because we've already spoken that this is not a situation now with the coward, although it's intended to be used as an excuse -- what you've come to reveal is the problems that already existed. As we've talked a lot of times, the vault has been piled up with a young man installed on jobs in the service sector, completely precarious jobs. And we know what happens to the service sector, with unprecedented affection in youth by ERTE, or directly from unemployment, or from working conditions that do not allow, as I said before, economic independence, emancipation or a project of own life. In the light of the data shown by the different bodies and institutions on this issue, we understand that we should play with two theories: either the Galician Union does not know how to palliate the exodus of the Galician youth or--what I think most worrisome--it doesn't interest him to do so. The truth is, to me, that it seems dangerous to me what we have heard many times, both in the media and in this Parliament itself, when it is said that the People's Party does not have a project for Galicia. The truth is, I don't agree. The People's Party has a very clear project for our country: to sell it all the time until we become in the country of services, in the country of the Jacobeans and low-cost tourism. And no, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, no, Counsellor, youth can't eat only from the hostel, a country can't eat only from the hostel and tourism. What alternatives will you give to youth when Galicia is one of the state communities in which you least invest in innovation, development and innovation? That's not what I'm saying either, but it's official data, too. Galicia is the third territory in the state where investment in innovation has fallen the most, where the percentage of outsourcing of our economy increases, when we get further and further away from the minimum percentage in terms of industrialization and weight loss in the productive sectors marked by Europe. The alternatives given by the Galician Union to youth are to buy a suitcase and send it to work under terrible working conditions to foreign companies, which you call "galeuropa". Seeing and reviewing also the Strategic Youth Plan 2021, of the Youth Directorate General, we see how in terms of employment for youth, the only thing that Joine has is, at most and at best, inserting youth into a completely precarious and completely temporary labour market. The Galician Union, both nationally and internationally, is acting like an ETT for Galician youth, giving it precarious jobs in exchange for nothing and with no true future. [[Applause]] As I said before, youth cannot only eat tourism, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we need to change the model and that our country invests in research and new technologies, that a reindustrialization plan and the closure of productive cycles in Galicia is being put in place. We need a solid country project, and that's incompatible with absolute tertiarization, with the dependence of tourism and hospitality. And I'm going to apologize, because I'm going to quote too, as if I used to do in this Parliament. In this case, as we have already had panxolinas in this plenary session, appointments and so on, I also wanted to quote a group of Italian music, a group called Son da Rua, a group composed basically of young gales and expressing what young gales think. And I'm from the Street, by the hand of comrade Hugo Guezeta, he said we can't believe, that "we don't believe in leaving our land being an endemic evil," and he added that "his estate will have a job for Ence, for Eulen, for Audasa or for the Deputation of Ourense" -- and I might also add Greenalia -- but the rest of this country's youth doesn't have those opportunities and has to stay out of our country with wages and poor conditions to be able to carry out their lives. [[Applause]] From BNG we understand that there are two fundamental parts to change this model and give it a present and a future worthy of our youth and our country. We need real sovereignty to be able to put in place political alternatives that Galicia needs so much. And when I say royal sovereignty, I don't mean to wear "Galicia, Galicia and Galicia" to put my finger on the Government of the State when they don't rule and be silent and submissive when they do, but this country needs political will to change things. And then it doesn't matter who rules in the state, because the People's Party prefers to focus all its efforts on Jacob to provide a solid alternative to the popular classes of this country. And just as everyone who goes up today is talking about Christmas, I also want to refer to this concept, and not to congratulate everyone without more -- that they can give themselves for congratulations without any problem -- but what the young Greek likes most about Christmas -- or at least what I like most about Christmas -- is that it's the time of the year when all of our companions, friends, family and others are here on earth, and it's the time of the year when we can really feel complete as a country, because all of the people who are outside, in emigration, come back. We had to aspire to that -- not just for Christmas, but all year round -- and be able to have our youth at home. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I'm going to finish. If we want to guarantee the future of our country, it is essential to allow young people from Greece and immigrants to produce and create wealth here, and that the one who is already here may have decent working conditions. And, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, Counselor, we're late. Youth is the future, but it's also the present. And if you don't act in the present, there won't be a future to work for. I bet you once for the Galician youth, even if they don't do it for you. Doing so will make the difference between ordering and ruling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u146	Thank you, Mr. Rios Santomé. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Response from Employment and Equality Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u147	Thank you, President. Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, this health crisis has had and is having a significant impact on employment, in all employment -- this is a fact that it is impossible to avoid -- and of course also on the employment of young people and girls. That's why the Government of Greece has started from the very first moment by working intensely in the only way we can guarantee the maintenance of employment, which is trying to keep the activity going. But the truth is, we won't find ourselves with the data we have today if we don't adopt the necessary measures in advance and with sufficient time. If before the pandemic was declared, in all previous years, no action had been taken since the Government of Galicia, the consequences of the pandemic on employment -- and of course on youth employment -- would be far more serious. I have to be very clear when I say that boys and girls are a priority collective in all employment policies of the Galician Union. Youth unemployment is one of the main concerns of the Government. I agree, Mr. Ríos, that it is one of the main concerns of the Government not only because we are talking about our youth but because we are talking about the future of Galicia. Now, what I can't be so catastrophic in the situation you're proposing. I'll try to answer all the questions with data and as neatly as possible. As I told them, I was actually beginning to tell them that the situation and reality we are in is a difficult situation. You raise a first question in your inquiry, you ask what is the government's assessment of the youth labour situation. Well, as I tell you, the situation isn't as catastrophic as you want to see it. And it's not so catastrophic because the figures that account for Galicia's position in the state as a whole are figures that show that we're far from the state. We're talking about a youth unemployment rate of almost four percentage points below the national average. We're talking about 11% less than at the beginning of the second juvenile unemployment legislation. Galicia is the seventh community with the lowest rate of juvenile unemployment. And if we're talking about unemployment between 16 and 24 years of age, we're talking about our second for youth unemployment. If we look at the number of busy people, the quarterly evolution of children under 30 increases by more than 6 % -- 6,300 young men and girls active more --. This increase has affected all levels of training, but it has affected more and more and with special emphasis the university students, who have achieved the highest rise. In particular, a total of 2,600 boys with higher education found work in the last quarter. As for the young unemployed, we are the third community with less in a third quarter of the entire historical data series -- this despite the difficult context in which we are --. We also see how the figure of girls and girls who have neither studied nor worked in Galicia since the second quarter of the year has been reduced by 4,900, again representing a weight, over the total population under 30 years, below the average of Spain -- 14.94 % in the Galician community compared to 22.5% in the state-wide --. All this data isn't data that I tell you, it's data that comes out of the IGE and that comes out of the EPA. This data reflects that the active employment policies and self-employment support initiatives and the improvement of the employment situation of the group of young and young people we have been applying in recent years since the German Government are being effective. Since 2012, Junta has invested more than 315 million in active employment policies for under 30 years -- 39 million average a year for more than 250,000 eligible boys and girls --. This percentage increased in the last legislation: more than 130 million were invested, which is 43.6 million average a year. We're talking about jobs, but we're also talking about quality jobs. You question our will, or we don't know how to guarantee a decent job. They talk about temporality, and about the fall in temporality, or, in contrast to the increase in indefinite employment, Galicia has increased the indefinite employment among the young Greek -- evolution that is also higher than the one registered in the state --. In the third quarter of the year 2020 - - again data from the EPA - - - 79.94 % of the total number of people employed in this group. The increase was 6% -- 4.5 points above the national average --. In fact, while in the State as a whole the evolution of the full-time youth employment percentage records annual falls of 0.27%, Galicia increases by more than 5 points. Quality employment is also paid. The data offered by the Tax Agency show that the average wages of the Greeks have increased by 3.76 % in the last year, and the younger workers are the ones who have reached a higher rate of rise -- by 5.34 % between the ages of 18 and 25 and by 4.38 % more among the employed between the ages of 26 and 35 --. And all of this is accompanied by the Joint effort to put in place specific programs for youth. You say we don't have any youth employment plans. Of course we have a youth employment plan. In each of the plans, both for self-employment and for the social economy, and for recruitment incentives, as well as for mixed forms of recruitment and training, we have specific plans for youth employment, starting with the Plan employs youth, within the Galicia programme employs, which boosts the inclusion of young people with employment contracts in businesses in the various productive sectors by means of bonuses or aid for young people and girls, when it comes to indefinite contracts, for 6,000 euros and, when it comes to contracts for a year of duration, for 3,000 euros. These contracts can be completed with training bonds -- for entrepreneurs who choose to train young people and girls -- of EUR 4,000 per indefinite contract. We also have mixed employment and training programmes, with training and learning contracts; specific employment workshops for young people under 30 years of age enrolled in the Youth Guarantee Programme, action provided at each call with more than 7 million euros, from which 300 young people and young women from Greece benefit annually -- which, I repeat, are signed thanks to these workers training and learning contracts, such as dual job workers of a general nature or their own integrated employment plans, pioneer programmes that invest more than 31.5 million euros, increasing the opportunity of more than 4,000 Galicians and Galicians, and that a large percentage are young people and girls who do not exceed 30 years of age --. All these projects, ladies and gentlemen, respond to the demands of the youth labour market, to youth training, and they also activate, of course, territorial development, generate wealth and generate jobs. In order to finish the intervention, and as I told you, in addition to aid for recruitment or incentives for recruitment and training, combined with work placement, we also have self-employment assistance. Within the package of measures of this Government to support self-government, we also have support for self-employed individuals and girls through incentives for self-employment with support to be discharged as self-employed, in which youth is the priority collective, who receive 4,000 euros instead of 2,000 euros of general help for entrepreneurship. With the Renova Bonus, of general remittance, there are €5,000 support for the person who transfers the business; but for the young individual, bonds up to €14,000, plus an increase of €3,000 per employee on account of the transfer -- up to a maximum of five workers --. And the New Opportunity Bonus, also for the self-employed, precisely aims to facilitate the generational change in the business of the self-employed. This is a bonus with support of up to 12,000 euros per girl or self-employed. Finally, there is a clear bet, as I tell you, for youth self-employment, for youth employment, for the training of our young people and our girls through all these specific programs that I have just commented on. And I think the data I'm exposing to you reveal that we have a much better behaviour in youth than the average of the Spanish state. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u148	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. Rios' reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u149	Thank you, President. Counselor, I'm going to start with a question, and it's just that we've been in plenary activity for a few months -- of parliamentary activity, they're sorry -- and what you hear most is a self-comprehension and a car bomber to everything that we do in Galicia and, above all, say, "We're not as bad as the state." Counsellor, since Mr. Faixóo's rule in this country, some 80,000 girls have left abroad. So anyone gets their numbers and data. And I've already said it at the PNL that the Socialist Party introduced about a month ago: data is that they're useful, but they're also very interpretable and very manipulatable. But there's a question called "reality" that you sometimes like to impose your criterion. Go to the street, talk to the girls of this country, and tell them, "No, but you're not so bad, that we're going three points below the Spanish average in this... what does this solve for the youth of this country? That's what happens when you see that today you have to go back to your parents' house because you don't have to pay for your rent, when you see that they're in employment contracts, three jobs a week, which is a brutal temporality? You're telling me that there's an increase in indefinite contracts, and you're also talking about full-time contracts. What he doesn't say is that full-time jobs that increase are of a temporary nature. Contracts that sign youth in this country, more than 90 %, are of a temporary nature, either on average or on a full day. I don't see any kind of reason to boast of what they've been doing all this time. Galician Union inserts Galician youth into the labour market, and that's supposed to be its role. So I repeat what I said earlier: the Galician Union is an ETT for youth, which inserts it into a labour market that is completely precarious and temporary without having any kind of proposal or alternative to change that question. Derogation of PP's labour reform by the PSOE, nothing. As long as you ruled in the Spanish state, you didn't touch. Now that he rules the PSOE, neither. You have to change the frame, you don't have to throw up the young man from Greece -- desperate for a project of your own life and for emancipation, for having a life -- to the labor market by giving money to businesses, so that every six months they hire a young man or a young girl and they still make boxes. And this country's youth is jumping from temporary contract to temporary contract, from precarious contract to precarious contract, without knowing where it's going to be in six months. This country's youth doesn't need training contracts, it doesn't need training contracts, it needs real contracts. Greek youth, by any means possible, is fully trained to access a job and perform it the same or better as any other person in this country. Why do you have to charge less of this country's girls than the rest of Galician society? And they don't use, please, the pandemic, the cover-19 excuse to tell us that right now, of course, things are bad because there's this pandemic, but that, well, it's less bad than we were, which, if not, would be much worse. This isn't about ten months ago. The young people of Greece take this situation for years, years and years, as they advance the neoliberal agenda of the Galician Union and the Spanish State. That's what happens, that's the model, that's the job market. That's the problem, not that you give business money to hire people in precarious circumstances for six months. That doesn't solve anything at all. But, as I said before, it's not that the People's Party doesn't have a project for this country. It is clear and clear, it is very clear: it is to sell -- as I said before -- a piece of it and leave us in the country of the Jacobs and in the country of low-cost tourism. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, Mr. Balsairo, we spoke about it even the other day, the coward comes to speed up this whole issue further, to withdraw more labor rights still fit, to deny even more the capacity for collective bargaining. And we're not talking anymore about the service sector, where most of our youth works. Of course we do! I said it myself in this plenary -- I signed three or four contracts a week. I'm a hotel worker. And that's what I had. Like me, a lot of other people. And I don't have a university degree, but there's a lot of people with university degrees having to work on what they can -- in completely precarious conditions -- or, if not, having to leave. I hope that at these Christmas parties -- as I said before -- everyone receives relatives, friends and friends who are outside, ask them, ask them if they can go back to this country to work and have a life here, ask them, and see what they tell them. A vast majority that is outside, especially young people, cannot return to this country because they don't see any kind of alternative or ability to do so with a minimum dignity. So don't come here with data. [[Applause]] They go out to the streets, talk to new people and tell them the data. But, of course, the data already know what they are. They serve to hide behind them and eventually draw a balance as everyone cares for them and move on. Because total, as I said before, the job for some is more than insured. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u150	Thank you, Mr. Ríos. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Close the interrogation, Madam Employment and Equality Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u151	Thank you, President. Mr. Ríos, I think it's hard to conclude from my intervention that the Government falls into self-comprehensiveness and autobomb, when I started saying -- and I think I always start saying it, and I'm never coming here saying no -- that we're in a moment of great difficulty. I think I also said that for the German Government youth unemployment was a major concern. We didn't fall into either self-comprehensiveness or auto-bomb, which doesn't manipulate the words I used, because I didn't fall here in self-comprehensiveness. Another thing is that data is what they are. [[Applause]] And the data I'm giving you here are not manipulated. I'd like to know where you come from that 90% of Thursday's contracts are temporary contracts. This data is completely false. Look, the EPA data from the third quarter you can consult. It's not a journal, it's an independent report, it's an EPA data. Undefined employees in Greece under 30 years of age represent 41.96 % of all employees in this age group in the third quarter of 2020. So I say again what I told you in the first part of the intervention: one thing is that obviously the situation is uncertain, the situation is difficult -- and you won't listen to this government anything else -- and another is falling into alarms or catastrophes that are not true. You can't come here and say that 90% of workers' contracts under the age of 30 are all temporary contracts, because it's simply not true. That's not true! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] The Galician youth is perfectly trained and ready to work, I don't doubt it. But what is a firm conviction of this advisor and of the Government is that all workers, too busy, must be trained, and must be trained because the evolution of the labour market, the evolution of society -- and most of all in this context -- so requires. That's why I think it's incredible that since the BNG we don't value training for employment. Training for employment - and we do not say - from the People's Party to the whole of Europe - is essential in order to adapt to the new needs of the labour market. Without training we won't be able to adapt. [[Applause]] So it's very worrisome, very worrisome! that a political party can so plainly assert that all the young people in Greece who cover up to the age of 30 are already fully trained to work, and that what they want are indefinite contracts and they don't want to form because they're all ready. [[Murmurs.]] Look, we've been taking action since Galician Janta, and we've taken necessary measures with enough time. This is a fact, a fact that is represented by figures. You don't want to know about Galicia in a national context, but Galicia isn't an island. Galicia is in Spain, Galicia is in Europe and Galicia is in the world. And Galicia is the second autonomous community with a lower percentage of unemployed people in the 16-24-year-old section -- specifically 14.1% of the total EPA unemployed compared to 16.7% reflecting the national average --. Today, while considering all the health crisis, Galicia is, in terms of youth unemployment, the second community with a lower rate. That's because the decisions that were made -- but the decisions that were made before the pandemic, with which we lived for nine months -- were in the right line. I want to highlight again the absolute commitment of the German Government to all the boys and girls. Galician youth is a priority collective in all employment policies of the Union. In this sense -- and that is why -- we have, as I told you, specific programmes within each of the recruitment support and self-employment support activities within the autonomous community, through support for generational change to self-employed people, through dual youth training programmes -- which you are not interested in -- by forms of entrepreneurship and employment, and also by forms of social economy that do not refer to in the first part of the intervention, with the "Aprol-Social Economy" programme, an incentive for cooperatives, for labour societies and for people who decide to join -- and here we encourage and increase by 25% in the case of youth cooperatives, and can reach 16,500 euros --. They are specific programmes with detailed actions and budgeting for youth employment. These employment measures, together with the political stability that Galicia enjoys within the national landscape, are what distinguishes Galicia from the rest of the state. And finished by remembering the data -- EPA data and IGE data --. The unemployment rate for children under 30 is lower in Galicia than in the state at more than three percentage points. The number of boys stopped is the third smallest in a third quarter in the whole historical series. The number of occupations under the age of 30 in this quarter increases by 6,300 more. They are results of taking the necessary measures over time and in sufficient advance. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u152	Thank you, Counselor. We suspended the session until 4.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u153	Good afternoon. We resume the session with the ninth item on the agenda, with questions to the Government. Question by D. Diego Calvo Pouso and six other Members, by G. P. Popular of Galicia, on the fees to be applied by the Government of Greece from 1 January 2021 on motorways of autonomous competition
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u154	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Counsellor, the large infrastructures in Galicia and policies for people are in our daily debate. Both are closely related to the budgets that are presented year by year, but it seems that our autonomous community is the great forgetfulness of the budgets that were approved yesterday at the State Government Senate. And we still have to hear Mrs. Montero say that the country played the lottery with these budgets. Sorry! And it's not like our group, the majority group of this House. It is also thought by those who gave support to a social communist government nearly a year ago, that on this Christmas day they signed a document that can be described as a letter to the Magi. So it seems, a year later, what will come from all those requests of that letter will be coal; though, for the people of the Bridges, not even that, because the Ministry of Ecological Transition seems to be committed to taking it away as soon as before without leaving any alternative for the survival of a whole region. By the way, I want to take advantage of these 2018 People's Party budgets, which, after three years, the government of Sánchez and Churches, with at least suspicious support, has just retired. They wouldn't be so bad. In recent days, the media have published that the Government of Galicia is planning to freeze or lower the rates of autonomic highways that unite Vigo and Baiona and also communicate Carballo to the city of Coruña; it reports that this parliamentary group receives with satisfaction, since the decision will benefit the competitiveness of our businesses and our territory, and of course it will be a relief to the pocket of many Greek families who depend every day on those highways to develop their daily activity -- even more in the pandemic context that we are suffering and in the context of uncertainty that is presented at the economic level once we overcome this health crisis --. For all this, the People's Party's Parliamentary Group is interested in knowing what fees will apply to the Government of Galicia from the next January 1st on motorways of autonomous competition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u155	Thank you, Mr. Lorenzo. Response from the Infrastructure & Mobility Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u156	Thank you, President. Your Honor, the Greek Government manages and, of course, decides to stick to the territory and keep very in mind what happens at every moment, and more with emphasis on the pandemic we have and the current state; therefore, we manage thinking about the priority objective, which must be people, and more in this context. First of all, in the face of people, there are specific measures to alleviate the economy of families in times of great uncertainty, as is the moment we are living. In this context, there are many actions concerning the Infrastructure Council, such as further progress and further implementation of new proceeds of high-speed free-of-charge routes. There's the Morrazo highway, which is the biggest investment made on roads in recent years; the Nadela-Sarria highway, which we've just started; the Artabra Way, which is in full execution, or that of Tui-A Guard, which will start next year -- all of them free of charge --. There's also the impulse we're giving to the highway Santiago-La Estrada and also to the continuity of the highway on the Coast of Death. And also, thinking about people, and thinking about relieving the pockets of families, is the decision of the board to come down or freeze the beaches of the autonomic highways. From next January 1st, January 1st, 2021, the self-portrait AG-57, Vigo-Baiona, will be kept or frozen for light vehicles, except for the third The Ramallosa-Baiona, which will fall five cents. For type 1 heavy vehicles, five cents will be reduced in the Vigo-A Ramalosa truces, and for type 2 heavy vehicles as it will decrease in seven of the eleven truces. In the rest of the truces -- as I said -- because they freeze. On the AG-55 highway, Coruña-Carballo also freezes tolls for light vehicles. For type 1 heavy-duty vehicles as they are also frozen except for Paiosaco-Laracha, which decreases. It will also be reduced in five of the eleven truces for type 2 heavy vehicles. Next year we'll continue to sink in the bonuses to families in Galicia. And in this sense for next year, the families will have many important new bonuses, which will be added to the bonuses that are already on the highways and highways of the Unity of Galicia. In 2010 we implemented bonuses on frequent schedules -- 25% discounts on return on the same day and 50% on the second round, also on the same day, discounts on both light vehicles and heavy vehicles --. Also in October 2019 we increased the 50% discount on nighttime. So we think for and for people, and the highways of the Union will be the cheapest in all of Spain. And we see that it won't be the same with AP-9 despite the many Members' pleasure...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u157	Thank you, you have another shift later. [[Applause]] Mr. Lorenzo's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u158	Thank you, President. Counsellor, there's no doubt, as soon as we've heard, about the strong commitment of the Galician Council and its policy advisor for people and businesses. As you have just pointed out, these discounts and bonuses will benefit families, pemmes, self-employed people and companies, who each day travel these channels of communication that will undoubtedly improve their quality of life. This morning a Member asked for an article from a document in relation to a debate. As I think the collation is coming, I'll read it. Point 4 of that document, Compromise with basic infrastructures, subparagraph (a) says: "Adopt in Congress of Members the Parliament of Galicia Bill for the transfer of AP-9 over 2020 and include that self-track in the compensation schemes for the reduction of the fees that are set in place for the long-term concessions still pending, ensuring at least the cent bonus for recurring users -- twice or more per day -- both individuals and professionals throughout the week. The cost of this subsidy shall be borne by the State budgets and shall apply from the approval of the general State budgets 2020. Free Tram Vigo-Rondela. And, in addition, a commitment will be made to eliminate during the legislation the impact on users of AP-9 of the extraordinary cumulative increase for 20 years contemplated in the Royal Decrees 1,733/2011 and 104/2013 and their subsequent expenditures and developments. Even so, it is remembered the execution of the known as "the firefighter's knot" in the city of Pontevedra. A week from early 2021, we'd like to know if the Government of the Galician Union knows what will be the fees that will apply from January 1st in state-owned highways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u159	Thank you, Mr. Lorenzo. Question is closed by the Infrastructure & Mobility Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u160	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the lower rates of autonomic highways are there, with light and tachographs. And it's not the same with AP-9 and AP-53, state competence. And it's not because it doesn't require clarification about it. I insist again. We moved a rocket jolt about an inconcrete, incomplete announcement, to hide one of the worst budgets of the Government of Spain in the last fifteen years, a Rocard of the Socialist Party here in Galicia, some nasty budgets and some accounts, of course, harmful ones that, in addition, forget AP-53. About the beginning of the year 2021 we don't know how or how or how long the AP-9 motorway users will have these bonuses that were announced like this, with rocket joy. January 1st What's going to happen, gentlemen, what's going to happen January 1st with AP-9? He's going up. The only highway in Spain that rises its toll will be AP-9. He also drew attention to the fact of the abolition of the pay in Roundola, a commitment of the year 2018 that was working with the government of Mariano Rajoy. We don't know anything. It's frozen, it's frozen. And about the beginning of the year 2021, the Greeks don't know anything about these bonuses, that announcement -- that it was just an ad -- for the beaches of the AP-9 motorway. We're very afraid they won't be activated, that we'll keep paying the duck the Greeks for the management of the Government of Spain. It's known the position of the German Government, it's known the position on this extraordinary increase in the rates. The Advisory Council, the report of the Advisory Council, says it is null and void, and not in the Spanish Government. The report of the Advisory Council is sent. I don't know how many times I have to repeat it! Known, too, is the opinion of Audasa's usual profit when he rules the Socialist Party in Madrid, and they follow our scotch, of course yes, these 1,400 million euros that must be paid to the concessionaire for works of 300 million euros by a real decree of the year 2011 signed by those you know. We'll continue and continue to claim those bonuses -- and of course round her, from which we know nothing --. We're already tired of mistakes related to AP-9. And the summary of the situation of the beaches is very simple: the Union meets and the Government of Spain does not, in relation to the rates of our territory. The Junta freezes or reduces the rates of the highways of its competition thinking about the well-being of families, so that they save the Greeks, who are experiencing many difficulties. And in front of us we have ads. The Greek Government has the duties done; the Spanish Government, the pending subject. And everything seems like the AP-9 will be the only motorway in Spain that rises at the beginning of 2021. For my part, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u161	Thank you. Question by Mr Pedro Puy Fraga and seven other Members of the People's Party of Galicia on the assessment made by the Government of Greece of the restoration of the peace of Meirás to the public heritage and their opinion on the use it must have in the future
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u162	Hello, thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. As we all know, last November 6th we know the first sentence concerning the property of the palace of Meirás. Yesterday in the House we had a debate in which, on behalf of the People's Group, I welcomed, because it was a joint success, a success of the Greek society. And every part of society that has participated in this process because it has a share in success. It is certainly greater that since the first moment of the dictator's passage, since they claimed ownership and had historical lucidity to know that the possession of the palace in the family was the result of a policeman; secondly, that of the historians, who throughout all this time culminates with the book of 2017 of the historians Babo and Pérez, who give more precise documentation that explains how that policy was; and certainly that of the jurists. In all this process, I want to express to you the gratitude that the People's Group has, and that I think it's somehow shared across the House. Because the truth is, in 2017 we asked the Board to set up a commission of experts to integrate jurists from universities, but also from professional schools, such as notaries, and other personalities from the world of history, or acquaintances of public legislation on heritage. And the truth is that this technical commission, chaired by Professor Núñez Seixas, was the one that found a legal mechanism that, once analyzed by the State's Counsel itself, but finding an additional document that this commission did not have in the archive of the notary schools itself, justified the entire process. This led to a result that to a large extent was driven by the seriousness with which the establishment of that committee, which you also proposed as a cultural adviser when Parliament requested that the Board be a co-adjuvant part of the demand; therefore, among the merits that should be emphasized is also that of the Board. And we, precisely for that reason, want to express our gratitude to you and also ask you for an assessment of how we reached this point and the current situation, given that the judgment is indeed not firm and the family is entitled to an appeal -- that we are sure, because they have announced it, that they will propose it --. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u163	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Reply by the Councillor for Culture, Education and University, Mr. Román Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, we are undoubtedly faced with a historic achievement, in which it has gained social consensus, political agreements and legality. After many years, as expressed in yesterday's debate, complaints, studies, research, political and social demands, this objective was achieved. This House, this Parliament, has had a significant relevance. He first urged the Galician Union to set up a commission with experts in the legal and historical fields. That's how it was done. And this commission has drawn up a very solid dictation -- which was subsequently approved in this House as well -- to elevate itself to the State Government to put in place a civil suit and process for the recovery of the palace. These arguments were very significant, very important. In fact, the state's own lawyer has just recognized in a media these days that they have a significance and a relevance in the strategy and argumentation of the state's own lawyer. Obviously, we have to wait for a firm sentence. We are in an open process of execution of the sentence. Let's hope it goes on the line that we all want and that once it's firm, we can pass management to Galicia. And after this achievement, this collective success, it's up to us to continue. And it's about continuing to dignify the towers of Meirás and what they mean. In this sense, we appeal again to the spirit of union, of consensus, of height of vision, which was awarded in Galicia from 2017 until today. The Galician Council, since minute one, and once aware of the sentence, we've been working on a plan of use. And we want to put it forward and make it a starting point, make it available to the Galician society, from there, to open a debate, encourage participation and design among all a proper use of the Meirás towers. There are a few initial points: that it be an open space for citizenship, that it be a living space and that it tell the entire history of the tower of Meirás. There are obviously two references: Emilia Pardo Bazán and Franco. And we want there to be a complete account of this enclosure. We think both references are compatible with the tower's display report, with no complex and no percentage. We believe that democratic values, that culture, that equality between people is far above us and that they are far superior to what a dictatorship means, intolerance, abuse, repression, horror, the policy, and we want Meirás towers to be what they should never cease to be: a beacon that radiates equality, that radiates culture, that radiates democracy. That's how we think about it, and so we'll work so we can get it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u165	Thank you, Counselor. Thank you very much. We'll have another round. Replica, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u166	Yes, it certainly was a demonstration of this sentence of the triumph of the rule of law and democracy for its moral superiority over the conceptions of dictatorships, and in particular of the Frankish dictatorship. And that certainly is something that we must all celebrate. Precisely with the recovery itself, when the public property of the palace is confirmed -- that we all vote for it to be so -- we trust that this moral superiority of democracy is clearly manifest through a plan of use. We certainly shared that the ideal would be that there was a consensus, and we believe that consensus is very easy, because the BIC declaration, which was made by a government formed by the parties that are now in the opposition, made it clear what was the historical value of that enclosure, which was precisely the creation of a singular writer by his advanced feminism and how to be in Spain of the turn of the century; but also as a historical expression enclosure of a franchise where the palace itself became a symbol of the way of acting on the margins of the law, but giving him the appearance of juridicality to the acts that were held there all along that time. And, therefore, we believe that this is easy, obviously united to the uses open to the population -- starting with Sada --. Unfortunately, I quoted Tódorov, who said that historical memory can be used in two ways, in a more exemplary way, that frees us from the problems of the past and allows us to combat the injustices of the present; and in a way that he called "mystical memory", which is to go to the essences and somehow bring the conflicts from the past to the present. We are certainly in the first form, and I have the feeling that there are those who still want, for present interests and not for the recognition of what has happened in the past, for maintaining confrontation. We encourage him to work in those uses. We think it's logical and there's a consensus at the bottom because it's in the BIC statement itself, and we encourage you to work on that line. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u167	Thank you, thank you very much. Close the question by the Councillor for Culture, Education and University.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u168	Thank you very much. That's where we want to work. A commission formed by the State, in this case by the Secretary of State of Democratic Memory, by the Council of Galicia itself, by the Parliament of the Crown and also by the Council of Sada, where we all want and have the idea of creating a consensus, of creating a union, of compatibility and telling the complete history of the peace -- Emilia Pardo Bazán and Franco --. I think we must be much more primal than unites us, no doubt. And we should have no problem, no problem, to reach an agreement. And I regret, the truth, after listening to yesterday's debate, which has taken place in this Parliament, that we were unable to reach an agreement and not to send a strong message of union to all the Greeks and to all society. It gives the feeling that some of them are more comfortable in divergent speeches, and that they even try to create a sort of own account and to put it in some frame -- by them intended -- the People's Party. And I say here in this parliamentary headquarters, and without any kind of complex, that this government to which I belong, this parliamentary group to which I belong and this party to which I belong have no moral or political debt with franchise, no moral or political debt with franchise. And if we're accused of bleaching or hiding, I ask myself the following question: Is there anything in the Pardo palace missing or something whitening? [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us have common sense. What is the problem of doing a museum program, an exhibition program, a teaching program, with entrepreneurship activities, in a arena with two thematic axes: Emilia Pardo Bazán -- intellectual, creator, feminist, pioneer of feminism -- and Franco -- with all that it meant, what it meant, and putting democratic values far above the horror of dictatorship --? I don't know what the problem is. As I don't know how much of the outer space is being questioned, the fantastic outer space of the garden, to a space of reflection and memory. Or is one of the best world referents of memory spaces not an open space, a public space, as in Berlin -- made by Peter Eisenman by course --? We believe that the towers of Meirás must undoubtedly be a reference that serves to unite us. We must not forget that there lived a dictator, we must not forget the horrors of the dictatorship. But there lived a creator who wanted and designed the palace with a purpose and uses. By the way -- and to finish --, I think they're absolutely compatible. That's what many experts, university professors, national history awards say, and I'm going to pick up a phrase from a politician that's not friendly to the People's Party, now put in the paper, and that says, "One has not just understood why one has to choose, why one can't dedicate the peace of Meirás to both things, which would be the very Greek solution": tolerance, consensus, less partyist vision and, ultimately, Mr. President, sorry. And very good parties for everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u169	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Da Monserrat Prado Cores and two other Members, by G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Greece to ensure the protection of health emergency technicians from land transport against the contamination by SARS-CoV-2
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u170	You have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u171	Good afternoon. First of all, I will be able to take care of the health emergency technicians who are following this session from a Parliamentary Hall. Good afternoon, Counselor. We are in the midst of a pandemic as we had not known, and in the struggle against it it it is essential to put in place all of the measures that can be made available. And the main measure and the most important is having a strong, well-equipped health system with resources and staff with decent and protected working conditions. And within the health system, the patient transport service has an essential role and, as such, should be perfectly integrated into the health system. But that's not the reality. Complaints of irregularities in the quality of care, in the working conditions of the staff, in the deficits of disinfection of vehicles are usual. And with the cover, of course, it hasn't improved. In this service they work around 2,000 health emergency technicians, both in the emergency and programmed service, a collective who feels abandoned and unprotected in front of the vault. And why? Because they're at the forefront of the possibility of infection. They maintain a very close relationship with the patients in their homes, in their beds, when they pass them to the chairs, to the padillas, with direct physical contact when they have to hug them, mobilize them or load them. They are patients, in many cases, immunodepressed, with serious, very vulnerable diseases. They perform oxygen therapy and resuscitation techniques, which involve manipulating airways, generating aerosols with a high viral load in a reduced cabin -- which is ambulances --. They do a work that requires physical effort, concentration, axillity, and long working days. And on many occasions there's only one technician. And all of this increases the risk that the protective material moves or breaks, in case this protective material is the right one, which in many cases is not. In fact, many companies accumulate complaints in the Labour Inspectorate for delivering PPE that do not meet the necessary technical characteristics either in sufficient quantities or with adequate size or with hygienic conditions. And despite all I've just told you, Counsellor, in nine months since March, in which the pandemic began, they didn't have a single PCR, not a single one! , not a single PCR. [[Applause]] And the question is simple. That's whether it's how Joina fights the chain of transmission of infections, without protecting a group of 2,000 people who are in permanent contact with positive or potentially positive patients, who work without being PCRed, who collect patients in many cases without knowing if they are positive or not, without being able to maintain the distance of safety, without adequate protective material, without proper disinfection. And companies desert their obligations and Sergas allows you, Counselor. You're letting him. That's why I insist on the question, which is very simple. What action will Junta take to end this situation and ensure the protection of health emergency technicians from the covid-19 infection? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u172	Thank you. Answer from the Health Counsellor, Mr. Julio García Comesaña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u173	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Prado. I really appreciate this question from the Galician Nationalist Block and its concern for the safety of health personnel. On the other hand, I would also like to thank the People's Group for its strong vote to reject an amendment, precisely from the BNG, in which I wanted to withdraw more than 50 million from the game with which Sergas funds the PPEs from the healthcare staff. Questions and concerns are very much to be thanked, but ensuring resources is the most. That said, health emergency technicians working in Galicia have and have since the beginning of the pandemic the same consideration for the Galician Union as the rest of the health personnel who belong to the public health system in our community. With regard to the availability of access to evidence for the diagnosis of the covid, they were considered as essential personnel, like the staff belonging to Sergas, as well as other essential professions, such as police, firefighters, etc., giving priority to access to diagnostic tests at the time of symptoms. As you well know, Mrs. Prado, the PCR is not the only diagnostic tool we have in Sergas. The one that was used preferably with the workers was the antibody test, and, of course, health emergency workers had access to that antibody test in the two pilots that Sergas did to all his staff. Another critical moment in which this preferential treatment was demonstrated was the moment when some of these professionals were users of material provided from the central government. And the same Government reported afterwards that it had difficulties, and that it did not comply with European legislation. And at that time the Galician Union withdrew the material and cited for the preventive realization of the diagnostic tests to doctors, nurses, TCAE and other professionals of Sergas, and of course also the health emergency technicians who were users of that material. These technicians were also cited for the realization of general strikes -- the ones I was commenting on right now -- of the entire staff of Sergas -- at the same time, with the same proof and with the same treatment --. This situation was also demonstrated at the time when a union -- in this case the IGC -- called for precautionary measures in all health areas because of the lack of screening and diagnosis tests for covid. And justice understood that Sergas was ensuring that these tests were carried out in form and instructions contained in the documents prepared by public health experts. On that occasion objective evidence was drawn up of the date of realization of the slaves, and of the workers to whom the tests were carried out -- which, of course, included emergency technicians in the antibody tests --. There is currently no variation in the exposed considerations. The Union continues to comply with the protocol, as it could not be otherwise, having the Welsh health emergency technicians at the same level as the healthcare professionals regarding the indication of tests, scribbled and other. Ladies and gentlemen, today I assure you that this Government will neither forget nor forget the protection of our professionals, nor the emergency technicians, nor the rest of the health personnel, to whom we so much appreciate their work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u174	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u175	Counselor, I appreciate your concern. But with the assertion you just made that they had preferential treatment you know you're missing the truth, you know you're missing the truth. You cannot have a preferential treatment for a collective who is in direct and permanent contact with patients who may be infected and who can be infected -- in many cases patients with a very sensitive situation -- and who was never once made the entry into any PCR administrator. You know that's the way it is. And let's bring this here because it's not a point, it's not a coincidence, it's raining on wet. The protection on the part of the board of health emergency technicians is constant. It's constant! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] You can't lie down behind asking the people for mercy when they don't do what they have to do, starting with the professionals who have to look after the population. From the beginning, these professionals had many difficulties. They had to look for their own protective material because they didn't have it; they had to beg, starting with the cellars. The order on the part of companies was always the lowest possible cost, which rationalized and reused the material. And I'm asking you here today for correction, Counselor. If you really care and don't forget about them, correct them and take action. Because not performing tests or tracking between this staff doesn't prevent contamination, it only hides them. It does not prevent them, simply hide them, endangers their health, the health of the rest of the patients and the health of their families. That's why I ask you to establish the obligation that you also have PCR -- as risk personnel that you are -- to ensure that you have accurate personal protection equipment, with the necessary conditions, and to carry out company inspections to ensure that you are protecting yourself. If you really care about this staff, act and do at least these three things: let them be PCR, ensure that they have equipment in sufficient quantity and quality and that companies are inspected to see if they are actually working on the security conditions needed for them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u176	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u177	...for the patients and for the rest of the population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u178	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Close the question. Counsellor of Health.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u179	Thank you very much. We're talking about individual protective equipment, which the BNG forgets. The Union has facilitated and ensured that, at the first stage of the pandemic, health insurance companies -- both urgent and non-emergency -- as well as the rest of companies in this sector, belonging only to the private sector, have individual protective equipment suitable for each situation. I insist, at this moment we have also made the same distribution of material as for health professionals in the Galician Health Service at that first moment. On the other hand, health insurance companies have their own work prevention services -- as you well know -- and they worked together with the health care managers of the Union in developing protocols to protect their workers from cowardice. Even in the case of workers serving 061 through the corresponding companies, they received the updated protocols now and day by day, with the changes perfectly updated according to the indications of the Central Government and the public health services. In terms of how to proceed, when any health emergency technician presents symptomatology or positive evidence for covid, it is set out in the protocols of the Board -- elaborated by the Directorate-General for Public Health -- which is the provincial health head -- the authority in this matter -- which is responsible for managing the situation -- taking into account the type of contacts with their workmates and deciding who is or who is not close contact and which health technical decision is used to carry out. I think it is clearly explained and demonstrated that health emergency technicians do have the same consideration for the Union as health personnel, so that these professionals know that they can continue to develop a magnificent and professional work -- that they have been showing from time to time and, once again, from the beginning of this pandemic --. I personally, in addition, Mrs. Prado, in my previous condition as manager of the Vigo health area, managed the lists of health emergency technicians in the Vigo area and called them by phone to do antibody testing. Then I don't know what proof you mean you haven't been made. Whenever a general job was done for Sergas workers, it was done for emergency technicians, with the same test as for other workers -- in this case, I repeat, antibody testing --. When a positive one comes out in a health emergency worker, it makes this collective PCR, just like the health professionals in Sergas. I really don't understand what the problem is. They have the same consideration and treatment as the rest of the health workers, exactly the same. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u180	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Maria González Albert and five other Members, by G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the solution envisaged by Sergas to resolve the deficit of radiodiagnosis optionals in the Organizational Structure of Integrated Management of Ourense, Verín and The Boat of Valdeorras, especially at the Public Hospital of the Barco
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u181	Question by Ms. Maria González Albert, of the Galego Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u182	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor. On Christmas Day a month will be paid since the Public Hospital of the Valdeorras Boat lost two of the four radiologists it counted, leaving the service to 50 percent of its needs. This situation has served to deepen the deficit of these professionals who suffer from EOXI also in the centers of Verín and Ourense. And what happened in Valdeorras this past month? When we presented this initiative from the BNG we had doubts about how they intended to operate the service outside tomorrow's schedule, although we also made it clear that the decline in the quality of care would be evident. Unfortunately, now we know very well what happened. And two things happened. On the one hand, that Sergas introduced as standard the telediagnosis with ourense guard professionals reporting the distance about TAC with contrast made in the boat. That's right, as long as the Barco emergency doctor assumes responsibility for any problem, which -- as you know -- is not always the case. They've tried to implant the radiological ring years ago, and now they've warmed it up in Valdeorras. And the second thing that happened is the normalization of ambulance shifts to Ourense for ultrasounds with ultrasounds on the boat, which is a barbarity for multiple reasons, and much more there is in Valdeorras a single transfer ambulance. This precarious situation will last over time until the fates of the next public job offer, which is when you can block radiologists in the hospitals of Verín and the Barco. Although, of course, only until the next transfer contest. Given that OPE probably takes place in the summer and will not be resolved until next winter, the prospect is that at least a whole year in this situation, which could get worse if one of Ourense's radiologists stops watching for 55 years. Now the Council is taking off by announcing the bombo and dish an offer of long-term contracts to cover the squares of the boat -- which will be published in the DOG, according to the press report -- until this OPE is resolved. It might be asked, then, what kind of precarious contracts they offered so far are thought with that only incentive the professionals will move to Valdeorras. What's not good is to look at the unquestionable labor rights of professionals to choose a place within the system to subtract criticism from their evil management. The march of these two radiologists had been known for months. So, for months now, we all knew that the service was going to be precarious. Why didn't your board intervene before the problem broke out? Counsellor, a hospital can run without many services -- and it's true that Valdeorras has a lot of shortcomings -- but what can't work without a radiology service if you want to continue calling a hospital when up to 80 percent of the hospital diagnoses need some diagnostic evidence. Offering precarious contracts is a miserable form of human decapitalization of a comarcal hospital and that's what they're doing -- in addition, systematic --. For all of this, I ask you again, Sergas has been a real solution to the problem of the lack of radiodiagnostics in the EOXI of Ourense, Verín and the Barco; and, in particular, in the Public Hospital of Valdeorras. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u183	Thank you, Mrs. González Albert. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u184	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Maria González, the situation of which your group is speaking to me is at the root of one of the human resources measures that you have adopted in recent years: the establishment of the open and permanent competition. In 2017 an agreement was concluded after the negotiation at the sectoral table with the approval of the trade unions CIG, CESM, O'Mega, Workers' Commissions, CSIF and SATSE. This agreement to create this open and permanent competition aimed to further promote the reconciliation of the working and family life of professionals, and to enable them to opt for new destinations in an axile form, without subjecting them to deadlines and through the use of telematics, with a greater frequency in the adjudication of destinations. So, indeed, this right of professionals has consequences, because they can freely choose to move from the center. Maybe you want this right to be gone. We prefer to choose another way. In past legislation we modified the Health Law and the structure of health areas to enable more effective management of our human resources. This law shielded the existence of comarcal hospitals, such as Valdeorras', by creating their district. And integrating these hospitals into larger health areas is allowing difficulties like these, covering specialists, to take place from the reference hospitals, which avoids displacements of patients outside their surroundings and ensures equitable and quality proximity care. To speak today about telemedicine as a trap is, really, not to be in the world of image diagnosis. You don't have to travel anywhere -- even from Spain -- to see how telemedicine patients are treated at a distance without any problem in most diagnostic techniques and modalities. As you have already reported yesterday even the health area of Ourense, in the coming days the Official Journal of Galicia will publish a summons to these specialist squares. Nothing further from a contract -- I don't remember how he said -- precarious. It's an interim, Madam -- in this case two interim --. If that's a precarious contract, I don't know what we're talking about. Long-term contracts will therefore be offered to cover until the current public job offer is resolved, which will be able to be finally covered. Precisely it also touched me at the previous OPE to establish that the Valdeorras boat was two radiologists to have four. And he didn't say that, Valdeorras had up to now four radiologists -- probably an excess radiology template --. But precisely it was done and forced these workers... that I can also tell you that in the minute they arrived at the center they asked for a commission of services to return to their hospital. I refused them myself and forced them to be there this time -- with their good visa, of course, and telling them that the contest was open and permanent --. And at that time, curiously, do you know what they did, in addition to caring for the boat population? Telemedicine for the Ourense area -- they reported TAC and resonations from Valdeorras to the Ourense area --. And now the Ourense area is doing the same for the Valdeorras boat patients -- telemedicine, teleradiology --. In short, the free mobility of staff through the permanent competitions that this Government has set up may result in occasional lack of professionals.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u185	Thank you, Counselor. He's got another shift later. Thank you. [[Applause]] Mrs. González Albert's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u186	Counselor, that's not telemedicine. Telemedicine is something else. Of course, what it's not, is to have a patient take to Ourense at 4:00 a.m. because you can't get an ultrasound on the boat. [[Applause]] Look, the Southeasts and the Southeasts know very well what the situation of medical deterioration is in our hospital. In recent years we have been losing previously consolidated professions and services. He says our district was very good to us. Look, in Valdeorras we lost professionals and services of dermatology, trauma, prevention, rehabilitation, etc. Everything since the suppression of the health area executed by the People's Party. And since then Valdeorras has become the ugly little baby of the Greek health system. Now the problem with the radiodiagnosis service only deepens this deterioration. And I'm telling you, in addition, some things that are happening in Valdeorras and that should scandalize it as the most responsible of our health system that you are. Contrasting TACs are being performed to avoid transfers to Ourense in diagnoses that would need an ultrasound. Sometimes these transfers are being made in the only ambulance with which O Barco counts for this purpose. We only have an ambulance of transfers -- with the obvious security problems, delay in diagnosis, possible complications of the patient's state, and the repetition of transfers in the event of worsening, and secondary but not minor problems, there is an urgent need for transfer while the ambulance is moving another patient through an echo that could be routine in the boat --. There is precariousness for Ourense professionals, who are covering low distances in a manner located from the city; or, in the best case for patients, moving to cover guards in the boat at the end of the week, with obvious conciliation costs that this implies. And they're being, in addition, disincentived by you, who are denying them the two days of bail that would correspond to a court sentence similar to the case of pediatricians -- which is the only way you have to do things dignifiedly, through judicial judgments --. And this is also a step forward towards privatization of services, because radiologists are turning radiologists into mere image readers. Then the next step will be -- I suppose -- that we all go to the Beer to do the ultrasounds. Look, Counsellor, if you don't really change your policies towards comarcal hospitals and start valuing the health of citizens and citizens who depend on them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u187	Thank you, Mrs. González Albert.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u188	...this will be a recurring problem. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u189	Thank you. Close the question, Mr. Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u190	Of course we are aware that we must strengthen the appeal of the comarcas hospitals. This government has done since last year what no government has ever done before: including us in the selective processes of those categories and specialties with the greatest deficit of professionals a specific score for the provision of services in the difficult-to-recovered county hospitals. And I've already advanced -- in my appearance to explain the lines of action of the Health Council for this legislation -- that we're not going to stay there, but we're going to put in place a package of measures to encourage clinical practice in these hospitals and ensure their future viability by moving forward in this model that we shield with the law of the creation of health districts. You're talking about dismantling the hospital. And Valdeorras, with this government, the truth is that in 2012 he incorporated neurology, cardiology and medical oncology -- three small specialties -- in 2013, consultations and tests of endocrine and digestive; in 2015 he reinforced rheumatology, urology and incorporated HADO; and in 2016, pediatrics and rehabilitation. And, as I know, at the Comarcal Hospital in Valdeorras there's still trauma. I don't know what trauma you're talking about. You've been announcing the closure of the county hospitals since the EOXI was launched in 2010. The apocalypse of comarcal hospitals was to arrive in 2010, and it didn't arrive. Soon he would arrive in 2012, and he did not arrive; then in 2016, and he did not arrive; and in 2018, with the reform of the Health Act, and neither did he. Between this year and the next, improvements will be made in all local hospitals: in Cee, with the space that left the CAP free to reform emergencies; in Barbados, with the new emergencies; in the Navy, with the start of Phase 2 of the master plan; in Monforte, bidding the work of the day hospital and pharmacy; in Verín, assisting the emergency reform project; in Salnes, with the work of the sterilization center; and in Valdeorras -- of what we are talking about -- we have just examined the work of the external consultations and is about to bid the work of major outpatient surgery, day hospital and pharmacy. [[Applause]] There are over 6 million euros in 2021 budgets to expand the comarcas hospitals, of which 2.4 are for the Valdeorras Hospital, which we're going to privatize, and that you've also been announcing that we're going to close. I understand that this talk of spreading fear and saying that we're going to close the comarcas is a convenient resource to make opposition, but they think a little about the final result, because people see the difference between what you say and what then happens; and they decide that these slogans are so easy to make opposition that they must therefore remain there in the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u191	Thank you, Counselor. Question from Da María del Carmen Rodríguez Dacosta and four other Members, from G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the possible modification of the concessional use of the plot where the bus station of Pino, in Ourense, is located for the construction in it of a public residence of the largest
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u192	Good afternoon. If it is true that the Greek Government chooses who answers the questions posed by the opposition, it would clearly be addressed to the Infrastructure Advisor, who seems to prefer to answer the PSdeG in newspapers -- like this week -- rather than in parliamentary headquarters. And today he hides himself from two performances I want to talk about and ask for explanations as a member of the opposition. [[Applause]] Well, it's running -- as I said -- various controversial actions. One is the deliberate demolition of the city bus station. It was the Giunta de Galicia that announced early in the year that changed the initial plan of the construction of this larger public residence promoted by the Giunta de Galicia and financed by Amancio Ortega in the plot handed over by the Council of Ourense in the Vienteún district to the plot of the Ourense bus station located in the Pino. And this station said it would be moved to the Ponte neighborhood once the first phase of the intermodal station was completed. But they didn't. The demolition works began on October 26th without waiting to finish the works of the new station. Unheard! And what have you done, Counselor? Install two marquees to serve the city of Ourense -- specifically where the car parking is and where the taxi stop is located -- while demolition is involved and activity cannot be moved to the new station. And what did they provoke? "Caos at the Pino station" -- by Faro de Vigo --. "Travelers and drivers complain about the closure of the installation months before the new terminal is finished. They can't enjoy the cold or entering the washrooms from last Friday by works prior to the demolition of the bus station, located in the Pino neighborhood, a closure that took place months before the works of the new station were finished. Even if it was forbidden to make use of the upper floor of the old building, with which users cannot enjoy themselves while waiting for a bus or making use of the toilets inside. The same is true of drivers and staff of travellers' companies. A mobile work latrine is the only one that has even for travellers who arrive tired of long lines walking at five in the morning at the station doors." This is user demonstrations. Why the whole closure even before the overthrow? Why the exploding overthrow? In addition, the use of the station plot was changed, since -- as you know -- in the land assignment contract allocated in 1985, it was provided that only the bus station could be used. Besides, Counsellor, we wanted you to explain to us Mrs Ethel Vázquez what is causing this situation in Ourense. He's doing at the intermodal station, at the health center, an entire closure, an intrineration of the health center. And we want to ask for an urgent solution now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u193	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta. Reply by the Social Policy Advisor, Mrs. Fabiola García Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u194	Thank you very much, President. Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta, good afternoon. Ourense is the city of Galicia that will receive the largest investment in social services works in the year 2021. In total, we're talking about 17 million euros: the 5 million euros from the funds of the Galician board for the construction of the CAPD, the improvements also from the children's centres in Montealegre and Carballeira, in addition to the 12 million euros it will invest, as it does not, the Amancio Ortega Foundation in the construction of residences for which you ask me. Indeed, we are committed to providing Ourense with 120 new public residence squares. And you can be sure, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta, that, whenever we commit ourselves, we always comply. Our commitment was to have Ourense count on the best residence possible, and that's why we changed the plot initially planned in the area of the 21st century by the current bus station. And we made this change because this new location and this new plot brings together better characteristics. It has more than 10,000 square meters, it's closer to the city center of Ourense, it has a great access facility, and it also has a privileged position with views over the Minor River. As is understandable, a project of this magnitude also involves different administrations, it has its times and its processes, and it always requires certain guarantees. That's why the Galician Union is acting with utmost diligence and, of course, always complying with all the relevant regulations. In fact, the demolition work of the old station has already begun, as you well know, which is the first step towards the development of the future residence of seniors. It is a new service that is necessary for the city and which is also necessary for the older people who live in Ourense, so that with this new residence on this plot we can also give you a new use to this location and at the same time revitalize the Pino neighborhood. We are finally taking the necessary steps to ensure that Ourense has one of the best residences not only of Galicia and not only of Spain, but at European level, as will the other six residences of the rest of the cities, the fruit of collaboration -- and always thank him -- with the Amancio Ortega Foundation. We're talking, finally -- as I told you -- of 12 million euros, of 120 high-quality public squares for older people, of the creation of 110 jobs and vanguard equipment, to put all this and as soon as possible at the disposal of the neighbours. And for that, the Galician Union will make as soon as possible all the procedures provided for in the regulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u195	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u196	Well, I, like Umbrella, come and talk about my book. And my book is not the location, because we didn't discuss the location of the larger residential center, what we discussed is that the bus station would be demolished so quickly, without waiting for three months, as they said, that they would end up giving them to the new station and having people as they have it -- that already in itself is quite painful, but more in a period like we are, of pandemic --. [[Applause]] People are made up of two little marquees in the cold and the rain. I repeat that I believe it is necessary for the Infrastructure Council to change this performance of the intermodal station by making a ghetto or by entrinking the Bridge Health Centre. We're tired of pendants in Ourense. It's the only intermodal bus station that doesn't change in the cities of Galicia. You despise Ourense, Feijóo despises Ourense, and so keep Mayor Jacome in government. [[Applause]] Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u197	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta. Close this question by the Social Policy Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u198	Thank you very much, President. Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta, the German Government wants Galicia and wants Ourense, and that's why we're always going to fulfill all the commitments we make, both with the biggest ones -- making the new residence -- and also with all the commitments we make with our neighbours and neighbors. [[Applause]] At the same time we will accompany the start of the new intermodal with all the jobs that are necessary for the development of the future residence of older in the sound of the old station. Finally, this action takes advantage of -- as it said -- an empty space by avoiding its degradation or also its abandonment and -- the most important -- it provides a great opportunity to boost and dynamize the Pino neighborhood. The new public residence projected in this place will, of course, be equipped with vanguard services as well. It's ultimately about making the greatest of Ourenses and the province available for the best attention and always the best care. And for that we are working together with the Amancio Ortega Foundation, a collaboration that is not new to the city of Ourense, because it also has as its reference the Intergenerational Center of the Farje, which is pioneer and nationally referenced. Then we meet, and today, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta, we will meet again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u199	Thank you, Counselor. Question from Da Marina Ortega Otero and two other Members, from G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the knowledge by the Galician Union of the problem existing in the centre of minors Santo Anxo de Rábade
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u200	Good afternoon, Counselor. Today we bring this consultation to this House by means of urgency, which for our society has the protection and protection of our minors. We'd like you to keep record of the citizenship of Galicia through this House if the Council of Galicia through its council has knowledge of what is happening at the Holy Angel Center in Rhodes and what measures are being taken. Through the media, we know of a situation that is normally invisible to our society, as if it were at the mercy of everyday life. But the truth is that there is another reality, another very hard reality for many and many of the minors who are at risk of disappearance and who end up under the tutelage of the Autonomic Administration, so it's urgent to know the management lines that are running in such a sensitive area as this one, since it's everyone's responsibility. We want to know how many smaller there are and how many were derived in a center where there are 21 educators, 2 pawns, 4 people in the kitchen, 2 waiters and cleaners, 1 maintenance worker, 1 psychologist, 4 security guards, the director, the deputy director, the concierge, etc. Tell us that last week there were only a total of nine children. And it seems to be -- to see if the advisor makes it clear to us -- that there are only three minors left now. Which is why we want explanations on this matter to know what's going on in this center. In addition, there are also five teachers who depend on the Education Council. In addition, in June last year, more than one million euros were announced to invest in improvements in the conditioning of the centre itself, so it is more evident that the problem is not of personnel or material resources but rather of the management model itself by the Administration and the knowledge urgency of the sector that is required for this. Over the past few weeks, the situation of the centre is completely uncontrolled, up to the limit of compromising the physical integrity of the centre's own staff and even of direct aggression. There's even a communiqué from a Civil Guard association requesting protection shields in case they have to intervene in that center. From our group we urge the council itself to establish a close dialogue with the center's own team to find out that it's failing and having a clear diagnosis for timely management. It is important to note that we know that the said center was a reference to Galicia level, and it is true that it was thanks to the effort and work of the professional team that exists. And one of the possible causes of what's happening may be the eventuality of the staff, which needs a medium- and long-term formed rooting with the minors to bolster affection. This is a basic question, since the basis of success in intervention with minors is the permanence of the human team, and the fact is that in recent times, minors only enter with behavioural problems and progressively start a escalation of behavioural conflict at cognitive and conductual levels that results in a deterioration of the insertion and well-being of the child's superior interest, which must always deal with in the whole line of action. However, we have to solve this situation and I don't doubt that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u201	Thank you, Mrs Ortega. Thanks, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u202	...we all agree. We ask him to enter the center to gain knowledge.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u203	Thank you. Response from the Social Policy Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u204	Thank you, President. Mrs. Ortega, the Galician Union believes that it follows very closely and very closely each and every one of our community's juvenile centers. During this pandemic we intensify communication with them to first-hand to know all the specific needs of the most vulnerable children in an unpublished context. That's why today I want to take once again the occasion and thank all the professionals who work in these juvenile centers for dealing with a great professionalism for a year that we already know has not been easy for anyone. Their daily work is fundamental to the well-being and development of all the minors who protect, educate, listen and love. That's why, and because experience is essential, the Social Policy Council is always open to listening to all these professionals, it is always attentive to the proposals that the professionals transfer to us, with the aim of further improving a service that is basic to the present and the future of all these boys. Naturally, the situation in the center of Santo Anxo de Rábade concierge us and worry about us. In fact, we've been on several occasions with your workers and a new meeting is already scheduled for the beginning of next month. The health emergency has significantly affected the daily development of routines and also of projects, so from the very first moment, the Galician Union has covered all the needs it could have had. We came to the center with technological equipment, we reinforced all the personnel we needed and whenever needed. And, of course, we're always agitating the tests as soon as there's been some symptoms between girls and boys. We all know that working with these minors is not easy at all. You have very gratifying moments, but you also have more complicated moments. Our commitment is only to continue to improve the attention of these young and young people, who are going through a very complicated situation and who need the support and support of the Public Administration to have a good present and a better future. That you don't have the doubt, Mrs Ortega, that always -- and from the hands of the various professionals working in the center -- the Galician Union will do everything, absolutely everything, whatever is necessary to ensure that it improves living conditions in the center of St. Anxo de Rábade. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u205	Thank you, Counselor. Mr. Ortega's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u206	Counsellor, the staff of the center don't need your thanks, what you need is to receive them, to listen to them, to go to the center, to see what's going on. [[Applause]] Is it true that the minors are deriving from the center of Santo Anxo de Rábade? And, if so, what centers? What are they currently available? What resources? With what personal? Are they going to be smaller? And how many smaller ones currently exist in the center? We wanted you to clarify this, Counselor. We have to be aware that our society is in a position to offer true equality of opportunity -- and in our hands it is possible to do so -- so that what is today a utopia is soon a reality and all the minors, regardless of their birthplace, have a way to walk safely and in the future. The Autonomic Administration must provide a guarantee of stability to a staff that will take care of shielding well-being and guiding the path of children who are born a priori with stigma, and we are responsible and we have to erase it. Investment and resources are always productive and when established through a coordinated plan of action and, above all, knowledge. I remember those words that were reproduced in the Reconstruction Commission, which they said, Counsellor: "Less cement and more knowledge." From the administration, it's urgent to get into the question and see what's happening from within to act with maximum efficiency and sensitivity. How many times did you go to the center, Counselor? Was it ever? They say no, so we ask you to go downtown to find out what's going on. We have to step on the ground to gain knowledge. Of 21 educators only two, only two!, they tell us they're fixed. We'd also like to know if this is the case. Timeliness is indirectly proportional to good child management. Society cannot stand aside from these minors and must not be treated as a distant sub-world.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u207	Thank you, Mrs Ortega. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u208	It's our responsibility.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u209	Thank you. Close the question, Social Policy Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u210	Thank you very much, President. Mrs. Ortega, as much as you tell me, I'll always take advantage of these parliamentary headquarters appearances to give them one, again and again thanks to all the workers and workers of the juvenile centers. [[Applause]] Look, in recent times measures have been taken in the center of Santo Anxo de Rabade to meet the needs of minors as well as to facilitate the work of professionals. As I said, this staff picture was strengthened by the incorporation of a psychologist, a social worker, new educators and also security personnel. The training of workers has expanded, and for that we are working together with the College of Education in Galicia. And it was also faked in the permanent updating of educational and social integration itineraries for girls and boys in the center. The goal of these improvements we're doing is double. On the one hand, it's about getting young people and girls to feel more comfortable in the center and also their stay serves to improve their chances for the future; and on the other hand, we also want to continue giving all professionals the tools they need to achieve this goal. To achieve that, it's also very necessary to bet on the continuous conditioning of the center. In fact, over the past two years, the Galician Union has invested more than 300,000 euros in works to improve its infrastructure. Mrs. Ortega, there are now three children because the rest of the children have been on Christmas holidays to their homes. Finally, Madam, I really appreciate your sharing with me the concern for the boys and girls under the custody of the Galician Union. And you can be sure that the German Government will continue to work tirelessly to provide the child protection centres in our best service community. Because this specialized accompaniment is the best way to ensure a better future for Galician children and girls. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u211	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Da María del Carmen Aira Díaz and two other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the negotiation that is taking place in Galicia with the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food on the funds for Galicia of the new common agricultural policy for the period 2021-2027
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u212	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. President. The Italian countryside is living with uncertainty the current negotiation in the new CAP due to the multitude of issues: the dilation of negotiation in time, to Brexit, to the coward... but, above all, to the uncertainty derived from the darkness that has been maintained since the Middle Rural Council, and that, together with the lack of dialogue with the sector, they make a perfect tandem to think about the greatest of the short-term zozobras. For some time now, there has been a constant threat of CAP cuts in European budgets. Paradoxically, just like cowardice causes the opposite effect, but in any case it's not clear; and less we get closer to the people on the farm. The Counsellor had to summon the spokespersons of the 7th Commission, but unfortunately the only one who devoted to the CAP was to insistently on the subject of the jury, to support the sacks, vineyards and so on, and to an important boost to the cultivation of chestnuts and olive trees in the Courel and Ourense area -- and I use to say that I could also include the South of Full Place, because I agree --. All right, he's talking about everything, but he doesn't clarify anything at all about specific issues, so we're very short of knowing how you're going to materialize all of this. And, above all, it doesn't explain what position the Government of the Union is holding in Madrid to take advantage of the uniqueness of our territory and, therefore, of our agriculture and gain -- how we need enough funds for things very different from the things they need in Castile or in the Mediterranean --. Obviously, the joint ventures are defending a fair distribution by autonomous communities and not because they leave Galicia behind. We have already raised in our question that it is essential that the strategic plan of the new program for this period recognises these particularities of ours, and is efficient in solving problems and needs, because up to now these needs have not been covered for Galicia with CAP funds -- most likely because the battle that was to be waged --. You know perfectly well that with Galicia there has been an unfair distribution of funds, and that's why we want to know what you're doing from the Council to correct this historical discrimination and to be amazed that your performance in Madrid might have to do more to serve the interests of the state PP and its Latifundist friends than to serve the interests of Galicia. That is why we ask Mr González, who is negotiating the Government of Europe with the Ministry of Agriculture with regard to the funds of the new CAP for each of its pillars for Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u213	Thank you, Mrs. Aira. Answer from the Middle Rural Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u214	Yes, good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Aira, I brought an answer, but first I want to make it clear that the conversation I had with the spokespersons was before the meeting we had at the sectoral conference in Madrid with the minister. Of course, things were talked about there. And I'm already ahead of you -- as you will see in my reply -- that we have no drawback to having a meeting with Parliamentary spokesmen from the middle of the countryside and to explain everything that's going on. But I want to begin my speech with thanks to the group of experts appointed by the University of Santiago de Compostela, who is working everywhere with the Rural Councillory designating the future of the CAP. It's not a dark question, it's a university. And I am especially grateful to your coordinator, Edelmiro López Iglesias, who is, of course, defending the conditions of the Greek farmers and gainers. And, look, when you ask me about what the Galician Council is negotiating with the Ministry of Culture, I'm going to answer: we're not negotiating anything. And why? Because what the Ministry is doing right now is receiving contributions from the different autonomous communities. But he doesn't define his definitive position, he doesn't say what he's going to be. At least the communities don't know her. And I'm going to move what's our feeling -- and when I say "ours," I say that of Asturias, Cantabria, Basque Country and Galicia --. It's a concern, ladies, a concern. There's a lot of worry. And we are worried because what we saw in the European negotiations has not benefited Galicia at all. And there was the central government. I'm also going to put it into practice -- for example capping, which they know is the limit of aid per exploitation --. There is a position signed by the Rural Media Council in 2019 with the rest of the autonomous communities in the Cantabrian Corn where we demanded a limit of 60,000 euros. However, in the Council -- I repeat, with the support of the Central Government -- it was set at 100.00 euros. We also demanded a degressive aid, that is, less aid intensity had been paid to larger holdings. He didn't accept that demand either. And we also demanded an important amount in redistributive payments, that is, more money for the first hectares, to favor our holdings. He didn't accept that demand either. So I inform you that we are working with the governments of Asturias, Cantabria and the Basque Country to set a new position of the cantabrian cornice as far as the CAP is concerned and to have more strength in negotiation. Galicia, of course, will be there, and in that position we're also talking to agricultural organizations. By the way, one of them is called the Galician Labour Union. I've been talking to them today. I don't think they say we're being very shabby. And I'm done with this intervention asking for something very simple. In the same way that we are going to agree to different governments, of different political colors, of the cantabrian cornice, I call here for the entire Parliament of Galicia to make a joint request to the Government of Spain to defend Galicia's interests in the next CAP. We do not want a Mediterranean guidance pact, as the Minister of Agriculture has said. We want a CAP that defends the interests and peculiarities of family-based Greek agricultural holdings, which are the ones that green our rural areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u215	Thank you, Counselor. Mrs. Aira's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u216	Thank you, Counselor, and thank you, Mr. President. Look, first of all, I mean two things. First of all, I would like to thank you for not bringing the Government of Madrid questions, because when I am a Member of the Madrid Parliament, I will ask the questions to the Government of Madrid. In the meantime, this is our scope of action, if you do the favor. And secondly, secondly... and secondly... and I ask for one more second for the interruption... if the meeting can be with the whole Commission, which we are very few and few, and not only with the spokesmen... because it looks like there's a sort of elite here... that I don't want... -- come on, no, I want to take part. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's not that I don't trust the Mini, that I trust myself. [[Murmurs.]] With regard to what he works... sir, when I ask you the question, you have told me!, please, man, for God's sake! [[Laughter]] Let's see! Obviously, there's a committee of college experts that's working, but you don't know the lines of that work, and you haven't given any explanation in this Parliament -- neither you nor we ask you for it for now -- but think about one of the two modalities because there's gonna have to be something -- even if there's nothing to tell --. Why, suddenly, did the CAP disappear completely from the political plan in Galicia? Well, I don't know, for other things, they come up with more joy and explain everything they want to explain. You see the different projects, like viscose, jurors or everything else. [[Laughter]] Well, we're interested in the basic lines that will be defined in the strategic plan to complement with specific lines to strengthen the weaker and more disadvantaged sectors, and so we put this on the table. Of course, we're willing to listen and give what we can understand, we'd lack more! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u217	Thank you, Mrs. Aira. Close the question. Mr. Counselor of the Rural Environment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u218	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. President. I repeat to you that it is essential for us, for the Greeks and the Greeks, that the particularities of Galicia reflect in the design of the strategic plan of the CAP. And it's not being done. I don't want to talk about the central government. It's just that it's the central government that does it, that it commands all these issues, and we'll have to defend our position. But they're the ones who are finally making or are going to make their proposal. If we want policies to be effective, we must begin by adapting these same policies to existing realities, both in the agronomic and socio-economic levels. And that, here in Galicia, has to affect the help of the first pier -- you asked me about the two pier -- there has to be differences or you have to take into account the differences that exist from the economic dimension of the different farms -- in Galicia they are small, and that has to be considered -- and you have to consider the differences that exist between the territories as well. I told the minister that it is not the same as the gain in Albacete that on Lugo Mountain; therefore, we have to keep what is called the "regions of the CAP" without any doubt. And, besides, eco-chemists can't talk about Mediterranean pastries, they have to talk about the Greek cakes and the entire cantabrian cornice. So I insist that the Galician Parliament can perfectly -- and I throw that glove here -- support the position that we are going to sign the Autonomous Community with the rest of the autonomous communities of the cantabrian cornice, and in which the agricultural organizations, the agricultural unions will also be. I've already told you that both Agricultural Unions and the Galician Labour Union are aware of our requests, they know the document, and we're all going to sign a joint position. I also want to mention the second pillar of the CAP because it seems relevant to me -- and, in addition, since it's a question of the Galician Nationalist Block --. As you know, the European Union is calling for a strategic plan by Member State. True, that's institutional architecture, it has to be Spain's strategic plan. We shared with the Ministry -- of course, it couldn't be otherwise -- that there has to be a national strategic plan, but we don't agree with the methodology. The design of the interventions of the second piar should be carried out by each autonomous community according to the reality and specific needs of its rural environment, establishing the common elements at the state level from the bottom to the top; again, another defence of our interests in which I am convinced that at least the Nationalist Galego Block will agree, because I repeat that we seek to collect Galicia's specificities in rural development and, from there, to build the national strategic plan. And I have doubts that the Ministry really cares about the specifics of our region. Two weeks ago, in Madrid, at that meeting I told you, I was quite disappointed by that "Mediterranean road" -- because the minister called it that -- who is taking the Ministry to reform the CAP. From here, from Galicia, from the Atlantic, from the Cantabrian Corn, we will not cease to fight for our interests. I ask all of us to defend the real interests of all Greeks and Greeks. We give them all the strength we can and leave political colors on this side. I'm sure we all agree on this. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u219	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr. Martín Seco García and Mrs. Maria del Carmen Rodríguez Dacosta, by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the statements by the Rural Middle Councilman in a social network regarding alleged charges of employees of the Council to the citizenry for helping to process applications for wood cutting
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u220	Mr. Martín Seco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u221	Thank you, President. Counsellor, I hope that, just as the Government of Spain has made a successful agreement on the CAP in a very difficult situation, you can also bring the same to Galicia in the negotiation you will have with the state, because you will do it, not the group of experts or agricultural trade unions. Counsellor, the Galician Halfway Council of Rural Unity has set up a new application to process web-based logging requests. Because of the difficulty in establishing this new procedure, resulting from the fact that in the German countryside, connectivity does not reach all citizenship, and that it also has a very old population -- that in most cases it is not used by these new means of access to telematics management for the processing of applications, and whose main energy resource for heating their homes is the wood -- the Professional Association of Agents and various trade union organizations have manifested through social networks their disagreement on several occasions with this recent modification of the processing of a forest use that will now be done exclusively through telematics, since the change comes to greatly complicate their lives to the citizens of our rural community, forcing them to turn to management or other private means of payment to comply with the applicable legislation. Most agents, taking care of the situation, were personally and voluntarily assisting those administered in the procedures to obtain the permits or communications, filling out the forms in the corresponding application, carrying it out in the classic form -- that is, on paper -- and giving them to sign to the interested person or interested in their subsequent registration. At the time the use of the computer application was imposed, officials on the scale of environmental optional agents have no possibility of continuing this work, since, for access to the process, the data subject must have a digital certificate or a 365 key and do so personally through a computer computer or smart phone with the installed application. In the face of one of these criticisms on the networks, Mr. González, on November 19th, you announced via twitter the possibility to conduct the process through the telephone call to the information phone of the Galician Board -- 012 -- while insinuating that there were officials who were charged with the present procedure, publishing that what you will not be able to do is charge no one for doing the procedures, according to your own words. The outrage of many members of the group was capitalised, and the multitude of responses to their tweets spoke of the discomfort of collectives, trade unions, professionals and many agents. Individually they answered the tweet, but since the so-called social network you haven't given evidence of your accusation and continued to confront the agents who asked for correction, and even with replies like, "No, no, you're wrong on your way starting a battle against the Council." From the Socialist Group we ask you to take advantage of and publicly rectify these accusations here, at parliamentary headquarters, not only in the excuses that you have launched at a meeting with the professionals of the sector; for, in our opinion, leaving them on the table is very serious and unacceptable for those who have the leadership of the workers and workers of the Rural Council. The respectability of public workers cannot be questioned without providing evidence to do so. So there's no longer any way for him to withdraw and apologize publicly or make public evidence of such a serious accusation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u222	Thank you, Mr. Martín Seco. Answer from the Middle Rural Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u223	Good afternoon, again. Mr. Seco, let's start with the context. The Rural Middle Council, as well as the Galician Union, is on a digital transformation path that has no going back. Digitization of many services is a fundamental, necessary and simplified demand. We have an example: Corpri. What is Corpri? It's an application from the General Directorate for Forest Management and Planning, and, thanks to that new service, the interested or interested person who wants to process a forest cut -- not just those of domestic use -- can do it over the Internet. And to do this process there are two ways: you can do it yourself or you can have a representative -- like a family member, for example -- or even the municipalities themselves -- we sent them a tutorial so they can do it --. This procedure, which is present at the board's electronic headquarters, has its detractors -- although every day less --. It's true that part of the Council staff didn't like the new system. They allege different reasons. One of the reasons they argued was that there is no internet in rural areas -- and despite the fact that there were those two roads that I told them earlier very simple --. So we transmitted and explained that we opened a third track, in addition to the first two: the call to 012, a procedure similar to that of asking for permission to burn -- they mark the phone number, they call and automatically you do the permission of the cut -- a telephone procedure that we consider to be sufficiently simple. Despite all these facilities, there were still complaints. We always insist, in all these debates on the benefits of digitisation, that we will not take a step back. Because, in addition, one of the multiple advantages of this system is to avoid errors. I have a good relationship with agents, Mr. Seco, and I don't want to lie about this. I like to argue with them. It's no surprise. Besides, it has to be said that they are usually productive disputes. If it hadn't, there would have been time for him to leave the social networks. One of these debates, as you said, was five weeks ago. We have to keep in mind that these digital disputes have their own language and style. It is true that sometimes the themes are intertwined, or that bad things are generated understood by the little space for the text. About the particular fact of what you're asking, because of any discomfort caused, I've already talked to the agents, specifically at a meeting that I had with all the service associations three weeks ago. And I explicitly conveyed my apologies to all those who felt attacked. My intention, of course, was not that, even though it was a side consequence. I want to finish by making it clear that, with the best intention -- also to improve Corpri -- we organized on November 26 -- after that subject you mention -- a General Directorate meeting with representatives of the service. We listen to and apply proposals, but always without abandoning the path of digital transformation. The 012 option is a sample of how we can understand pathways that combine different positions. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u224	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u225	Thank you, President. Counselor, thank you for your public apology. But beyond this controversy, I'd like to ask you how you're going to carry out so many projects that you say you have for the rural environment if you don't count on a template that feels valued and respected by your top management. On this occasion, we saw the breakdown of negotiations by your board of directors with the representatives of forest fire service technicians. Do you remember how you told me in an interview two months ago that the strike was over? Well, he had ended his commitments to resume negotiations and sign the new agreement at the end of December, reviewing the criteria for salary discounts applied to the staff who worked during the strike in compliance with the minimum services. At this point the Council has failed to fulfil all its commitments, both those of negotiation of the new agreement and those related to the revision of the discount criteria, and they continue to affect the new discounts. That's his attitude, the counselor's attitude, with his workers. Or there is a lack of respect for the optional environmental agents in changing budgets by providing legal coverage to staff belonging to other public bodies and other different scales, with the operation of natural resource monitors with a proposed scale of new creation with the same competences and functions as those of existing agents, which would be called "natural resource savings". And the ideal thing is that he has agreed to integration through a process of operation, those that meet the requirements, on the current scale to extinguish "forest agents, C2", so that once the squares are vacant they will strengthen the template of the future scale of "technical agents in environmental management, group B." This integration would benefit the staff of the scale, as they would be equipped with rules and order of uniformity in force, without the need to develop a new regulation for a parallel scale and of new creation, in clear conflict with those existing in the same administration and with convergence of competences and functions, this last question of dubious legality. Therefore, Counselor, it is very good to set up projects, but what we have to do is respect for the workers and comply with what is said to be done. So I'd like you to say something about what's going on with fire service technicians and also with that change that you want to make by budgeting for forest agents. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u226	Thank you, Mr. Seco. Close the question by the Middle Rural Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u227	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I thought there would be a call to the question, because, if you bring a question, I have to ask you an answer. And if you ask me forty different things, I don't know exactly, Mr. President. But, in any case, Mr Seco, I am allowed, and with all due respect, to listen as far as technicians are concerned. And listen a lot, too! And with those of the natural resource guards, man! I think the councillor in which he has to ask the question is called the Environment and not the Rural Environment. Going back to the subject of your question -- because I usually answer what you ask --, listening to your comments and to make my answer even clearer, I want to insist on three points. The first is that the road to flexibility and simplification through digital procedures is a path without moving back -- and they're demanding Europe in the next generation -- funds. The Galician Union is modernized using the tools we have today. We have to take advantage of them. We understand that not everyone agrees, of course. We're looking for ways to meet? I told you I did. Hence the meeting I mentioned between the General Directorate and the representatives of the service. By the way, more respect I have to the staff of the service can't be found by anyone, at least from my office, from my position. Do we think Corpri could be better? Of course you do! But digital transformation, ladies and gentlemen, is inevitable also in rural areas, and we have to assume it, of course. The second point is the recognition of errors. Sometimes it's necessary to apologize, and that has to be done without our rings falling. Recognise errors must be part of the process of daily work. The debate is always good, but today a lot of debate happens on the networks, where everything is magnificent. Social networks, in addition to language and limitations, involve misunderstandings and side consequences that go beyond, as I said, the initial intention. I assumed I should apologize to those who felt attacked, and so I did a month ago, Your Honor, I met them all. I have explicitly regretted that the debate on Corpri had ended up disturbing certain professionals for different reasons. [[Applause]] And the third point -- and already to finish -- are the solutions. Are there ways to improve Corpri? Yes, and we'll keep talking to the service to improve it. Do these proposals imply going back into digital transformation? No, no, no, no. Are those ideas coming from the service and the Council? Yes, in common. So, no doubt, this example is part of the solution. In the way of digital transformation, ladies and gentlemen -- not only in the Corpri but also in the set of public actions -- there will be a lot of discussions, different points of view and even tone outputs. But if we stand by the solutions, we'll be on the same side. I'm in the same place where the service professionals are, which is not an abstract entity, is a team made up of individuals with different motivations. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Nothing else. Thank you very much. And happy parties to all of you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-23-DSPG019.u228	Thank you, Counselor. Well, nothing, they end up here three days full quite intense. Get some rest now. If they rest, we can also rest the members of the table -- if they let us rest a little --. And, nothing, happy Christmas to all and to all, who have a good party; and also to all the workers in Parliament and to all who make it possible for us to have this forum always operational so that Parliament will continue to work. Have all good parties. Thank you very much.
