ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u1	We resumed the session, in this case with a change in the agenda. Like the President of the Galician Union, at the request of the Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, to address the measures being taken in the face of the second wave of the covid-19 and those directed to alleviate the health, economic and social consequences caused by the pandemic
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u2	Mr. Alberto Núñez Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the request of the Galego Nationalist Block, and every time we have the opportunity to appear publicly since last March, we begin by offering the most up-to-date information regarding the situation of the pandemic in Galicia, dated 20 hours yesterday. 1% of the active cases correspond to people entering intensive care units, 95 patients, the same figure as in the previous day; 516 -2 more than in the previous 24 hours - are infected patients who remain in hospitalization plants, 5.2% of the total infected; and most, 93.8%, face the disease with lighter symptomatology in their homes, which amount to 9,258 people. They all form the updated X-ray of a pandemic that has been extended for seven months and that continues to leave an irreparable pain in its passage. A thousand and twenty-four people have died with cowardice so far in Galicia and nothing can compensate for their lack. The absence of those who have gone away will forever mark this historic period that has touched us to live, but it is also human to look for hope to continue to face a limited situation which, unfortunately, will accompany us until there is an effective and safe vaccine or, at least, if not, until there are effective treatments. Well, we found hope in the experience of 32,161 Greeks who, fortunately, overcame the effects of the virus. We find hope compared to other autonomous communities, since Galicia continues to be among the four autonomous communities with a lower incidence rate for 100,000 inhabitants in both seven and fourteen days. We found hope because we are still the second autonomous community with a lower percentage of patients in intensive care units and also with a lower percentage in hospitalization plants. But in addition to looking at those who have overcome the disease or other autonomy in the worst situation, we also find hope by comparing ourselves with ourselves, observing the trend of the last days. Those municipalities that have been living with exceptional measures for longer now clearly present a better evolution. For example, in Carballino, the incidence of the virus decreased by 88% at a rate of seven days and nearly 79% at a rate of fourteen days. In Ourense, with a perimeter closure since early October, the incidence rate in fourteen days has decreased by 46% and in seven days the rate has decreased by 56%. In Santiago, where restrictions have been applied since October 21st, the seven-day rate has dropped by 53% in less than 20 days, and the fourteen-day rate is already 35% lower than before the restrictions. And in the health areas of these two cities the positivity rate in the last seven days is between 2 and 3 points below the one registered in the other areas. We hope - I hope so, and I say so with all due care - that this light would be clearer when it reflects the effects of the restrictions adopted by the Clinical Committee that the Government has made its own last week. Does this mean we can relax? At all, there are still contagion and, therefore, we must keep alerts on. But just as we clearly warn of the worsening when it happens, it's important to also enhance improvements when there are, even if they are still light and initial, as in this case. I would like to point out that when they are found, if they are adopted, and if they respect the measures that contain the progression of the infection, this should encourage us to continue to achieve among all to reduce the curve of new infected people; among all of them, I insist, because it will be possible only if the citizen's collaboration continues to be, as it has so far, a majority. I want to thank all the Greeks and all the Greeks for their general response, for their responsibility, for their seriousness, for their compliance with the rules and also for the condemnation of irresponsible behaviors that put us all at risk. The vast majority of the Greeks are fulfilling, and that majority of them ask the minority that doesn't yet make them feel good and be supportive. I also want to make sure that in that collective effort it has been from the very first moment, it is permanently and will continue until this situation is over in Galicia. Ladies and gentlemen, today I come here as an autonomous president, but also as one of the 17 competent delegated authorities that the Central Government has designated to face the second wave of this pandemic. Out of the personal opinion that this kind of puzzle created for me to face a national problem, I want to stress that I assume my duty with the utmost commitment, with my own and with the whole of the Government of Greece, because there is nothing more urgent or more important than to manage in the best way that we know and that we can have a pandemic that conditions it all; it already conditions everything today and, in addition, it will mark the next decades. Because of this conviction, I can't hide from you that I'm surprised, that I'm sad and that I'm worried about the attitude the central government is having right now. When all this came about early in the year, there were mistakes made that could be explained by the inexperience and by the speed with which the virus spread, but at this point, in front of a new wave that we all knew would come, there are things that are incomprehensible and unwarranted. Ladies and gentlemen, what would you say if the Galician Board had delegated much of the anti-vid measures to the municipalities and dissociated itself from health management? Would it be normal for us to allow standards and unordered answers and no concert? What would they say if a community did not accept the delegation of competence? What does the central government do if an autonomous community does not accept the delegation of competence? What would you say if between the March alarm state and the October alarm state we did nothing to regulate the pandemic safely and effectively? Do you think it is reasonable that while all hospitals, residences, schools, businesses, families, etc., we were equipped to give a better response, the central government was unable to adapt health legislation to the needs of the pandemic? What would they say if in the middle of all this we invested our efforts to open debates that divided society? What would they say, for example, to a Board that, in the state of alarm, is authorized to delete one of our official languages from teaching? Would they say the same thing as we say before a central government that appears and disappears according to its convenience, that a permanent crisis like this does not fight with an intermittent central government? And that's why, against that, the board goes on and will be present. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, Junta will continue and will continue to be present, making decisions for difficulties that may result, making decisions and giving all explanations with greater clarity and transparency. [[Applause]] The pandemic demands decisions that are, in fact, very hard at times of maximum pressure. We have adopted them aware that they have an impact on the lives of families, their health, their economy and their social relationships, but also aware that the greatest evil would not adopt them, abdicate our obligations as rulers, and heed the warnings made to us by the members of the Clinical Committee, who, of course, are known, with names and surnames and with numbers of colleges or colleges; these yess, and those who, in addition, once again offer and acknowledge their extraordinary commitment to independence. We make decisions, and that also requires explaining those decisions, we also always do, and we will continue to do so. During the first wave, we communicated the measures on time to all the Greeks, although this had provoked criticism of the opposition, which suggested that we should not appear after meeting with the Clinical Committee. We have opened a parliament which was closed by electoral summons to subject ourselves to the control of the groups, and now, in this second wave, while others take exceptional measures with a six-month horizon to escape parliamentary control, the Greek Government is here coming, and be sure that every day we will continue to speak to the Greeks with clarity, frankness and respect that they deserve. Ladies and gentlemen, we could put our speeches on military references, doubling words or proposing unreal horizons, but that would only lead to more frustration in citizens, especially in those most directly suffering from this situation. The reality is crazer. We continue to face a serious health problem, there is still no clear end to all this, and we must accept that we will continue to have to adjust restrictions to the level of infection at any time. That's what we're doing in Galicia to achieve three priority objectives to which I'm going to refer here: first, to have the capacity to respond to health pressure; second, to ensure by the most vulnerable people and areas; and third, to avoid a second generalized confinement, which would have very harmful effects for the present and, no doubt, for the future. To ensure the first objective, fortunately we have a large public health system, which, in addition, faces this reinforced pandemic from all points of view. Strengthened from a staff point of view. We have already hired and hired 1,700 medical personnel: nursing, nursing assistants, health personnel, or we have been the first community to facilitate the recruitment of IRMs over the past year. Reinforced also from a material point of view, with stocks of PPE at all times and with a total of EUR 54 million invested so far to ensure as much security as possible. Strengthened by a contingency plan, which was updated yesterday by the Clinical Committee to meet the needs of the second wave. It's also reinforced thanks to the resources we've spent in recent years on public health in Galicia, with a seamless modernization of infrastructures and technologies in both hospital and primary care. All this is a key thing for the answer to be up to what it requires a moment like this, but it would be of little use if we hadn't accompanied it with the most important, constant effort to ensure the most appropriate process of case detection. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia has made it clear since the first day, the best experiences in the world have the same common denominator: early diagnosis, case isolation and quarantine of contacts. We went to the first community to launch the car-cavid to take the PCR samples with a prior quote. At all times, we maintain a high rate of diagnostic tests, more than 1,200,000 diagnostic tests up to yesterday; we prioritized the tests of health professionals and in the residences of the third age - more than 100,000 tests -; we started to apply the pooling technique to increase our ability to do tests, which, without going further away, the health minister himself praised last week at Vigo Public Hospital; and we strived to make large strikes in the main outbreaks that we detected or in specific collectives, such as the workers of education. Thanks to that, I think the Greeks know that we have a wide-ranging, very useful tracking system to control the pandemic. Of course, this is not about buying because in this area we must constantly improve, but we must be fair, because it is worth all the people who are engaged in this work, both in the Monitoring Centre and in primary care and in prevention services as well as in the territorial bosses themselves. [[Applause]] They all do a job of great difficulty, and they do it with enormous level of involvement, which we must praise and thank. We do it with words, but also with facts, acting on the margin of optimization, which is always in a field like this completely new one. In this sense, I already announce that we will continue to work to introduce new improvements to the tracking and detection system, for example; five new measures: greater specialization of the Contact Monitoring Centre, creating specific areas such as those that have already been created for the follow-up of cases related to education; the implementation of an Internet self-declaration system so that the person who considers that it can be contacting a positive introduces their data and is contacted by the Central to do the survey, thus downloading primary care professionals from these cases. Third, since November 4, we have found ourselves available on the Galego Health Service platform, another 300,000 antigen tests for their use by hospital emergency services, which are already being used, and primary care, once the pilot experience is completed in five primary health centers in Galicia. And finally ensuring that people identified as close contact with a positive are automatically discharged into the Telea system, so that even if their daily follow-up is carried out by the Central, by territorial heads or by prevention services, primary professionals have up-to-date historical information, in case they are finally positive and become a foster patient. New efforts, ultimately, to ensure a tracking and detection process that is essential to contain the progression of the infections and with this health pressure. However, it is worth stressing that for the moment, despite the growing needs, we are still far from the figures recorded in the peak of April and even further away from the maximum capacities that Galicia has been able to cope with the pandemic. Today, the 95 people in ICU account for 46.6% less than the peak recorded in April, when we reached 178. And the 516 hospitalized people represent 45.4% less than at the time. So from a health point of view, we live a wave with characteristics different from the first one. More cases are known, because tracking tasks work better and because more tests are performed and therefore more diagnoses are performed, and this enables more contagious detection without symptomatology or with lighter symptomatology. This allows the pressure on the health system to rise less sharply than in March and, at least, at present, lower levels of occupation than in those months. The difference is substantial, but we must keep in mind that the virus is still circulating, and therefore taking the necessary measures to preserve health care for everyone who needs it is the key; it is our first duty and our first concern. The second objective is to ensure that people and areas are most vulnerable. In this sense, the first thing to say is that there is no formula to prevent a hundred percent effectiveness in entering the virus into any residence of the elderly or disabled. Galicia would do everything necessary, if there were, to apply it, but today this formula, I insist, does not exist here or anywhere in the world. So we continue to act on four complementary axes to minimize risks and maximize protection: the first is to reduce the possibilities -- never absolute -- that the virus enters a residence with protocols that are constantly updated. The second is to periodically analyze the situation of each residence with fifteen-year-old cranes. So far, we've done four jobs between resident workers and we've been doing some jobs. From the next few weeks, we will launch a pilot project of early detection through waste water, measuring the exits of the waste water of the residences themselves, to find out if there is a shelter in a residence and so to be able to act before there is symptomatology. The third one. We intervene easily when there are contagions in a residence to ensure the proper socio-health care of the users. At this moment there are four residences intervened. Fourthly, we strengthen internal security. Visits to the residences of the closest family members are guaranteed, but we ask the municipalities to deminine the exits of the residents of the centres themselves. And fifthly, we're working on improving the model of residences today and in the future; we're working on a more appropriate compeneration between health services and social care, with structural improvements that help to best respond to situations like this, taking advantage of the potential of new technologies for monotorization of health and the well-being of residents' users. Thanks to this, 90% of Galician residences are coronary-free, and despite being the most vulnerable population in the face of the virus, it resists better than other parts of Spain and Europe. We are one of the three communities with less deaths in relation to the major squares. It's not data, of course, that they deserve any comfort, because they've lost lives and, unfortunately, they're still going to be lost, but we're in a better position than other places and we need to value it, because it talks about the ability of professionals to care for the elderly in these difficult circumstances and also about the capacity of the health system, which will neither give nor give any life for loss. The same is true in the educational field, where, despite the circumstances, it is developing the course with the relative normality that can be expected in the middle of a pandemic. The latest data is that currently the number of active cases among the 450,000 students is 0.3%. In more than 86% of the positive cases, there are only 3 or fewer isolated cases. Only one center is closed right now. I think it's less bad data that shows the responsibility of teachers, students and families. At your disposal, they all have instruments enabled to organize a more orderly and safer classroom, within the exceptional circumstances that moved us. We adopted a general protocol in July, which had to be adapted once the Ministry decided to make a decision by the end of August. We also made specific protocols for dining rooms or pupils with specific educational care needs. We hire more teachers, 2,300 new teachers or teachers, which means an increase of 7.6% of the total teachers in Galicia. And more recently we have come to adopt a virtual education plan to prevent the health crisis from interrupting or interfering that the student receives a quality or equity education in the case of confinement. Unfortunately, zero risk is not possible in health centres either, but families, teachers, educational workers and boys are responding with great responsibility. And we put and put everything within our reach so that they can continue the course as safe as possible. The third goal is to avoid further widespread confinement. I'd like nothing more than to be able to say loudly that I'm 100 percent sure there'll be no confinement, and nothing more than saying that all this is over, but I can't do it. What I can say, because that's what we're doing, is that we're going to work to avoid confinement, as we've achieved so far. [[Applause]] As you know, the different markers vary permanently, and the response is conditioned at every moment by the concrete evolution that takes place in each area. You'll imagine it's tremendously difficult to do that surgical work that's in the middle term between not doing anything or closing everything. These two theories are very easy to say, gentlemen, but they both have devastating consequences, and that's why we beat them. The negationists though, fortunately, they have little to go through in Galicia, they do a lot of damage, because they wave the flag of normal life, which we all crave but which is absolutely impossible right now. And they don't help at all those people who claim total confinement. Do you really know what I was supposed to know? Do you care about that total confinement of the population? Ladies and gentlemen, the demagogic or improvised roads never lead to anything, but much less in a moment like this. That's why the path that Galicia has chosen is to graduate the measurements depending on the severity of each moment and depending on the incidence of each place. Don't do anything, of course, it's not an option. We'll work to avoid having to close everything to which and how, with the consequences that it has as well. And, of course, we don't think it makes sense to enable homogeneous measures when differences and incidences are noticeable, depending on the municipalities or geographic areas. Unfortunately, we cannot discard that the model in this process is that of progressive closures and openings until there is a vaccine. It's the only option to control the progress of the pandemic by maintaining an acceptable level of activity. That's what we've been doing in the last few months. Sometimes they are very localized measures, as was done in July in the Navy, or in the Coruña region later in August, and more recently, with the restrictions applied in the Carballino neighborhoods, in Ourense, or in Lugo districts. Other times they are more general measures, such as those that were decided on 20 October when we already decided in Galicia level 2 of restrictions throughout the autonomous community. Once the Committee must lay down joint measures, as it did on October 30, when the closure of the seven cities was decreed to prevent massive displacements on the Day of the Dead. And at other times the situation demands wider restrictions, in time and space, such as those that are in force right now. As the experts asked us to do, this new general effort is essential to bend the curve and we are not forced to increase restrictions in the month of Christmas. Respecting the perimeter closures decreed in the 60 municipalities, taking up the closure of the inn in these areas - except for the home service - to be exclusively connected with people and not to exceed meetings of more than six people in the municipalities that are not perimeterd, as well as establishing general outlets in trade, or seeing limited public transport, all this is demoralizing, but I assure you that we find no other alternative. Because not doing so would inexorably lead to even greater limitations in the coming weeks. In order to avoid this it was affixed by a model of action similar to that which we apply in the Carballin district and which, in the opinion of the Clinical Committee, is what will allow us to reset the health system first. Since yesterday, experts have evaluated what the incidence of lifting these restrictions should be, and even if there is not for now a specific horizon, we will continue to think that, if we continue the downward trend, we could alleviate some or many of these limitations over the month of December. Ladies and gentlemen, the virus doesn't understand exacerbated localisms, partisan struggles, or relevant strategies. If the Greek citizenship is giving an exemplary response to understanding and complying with the restrictions, if most of the population understands that measures are not a punishment, but a protection, if we are all and strive to comply scrupulously with the recommendations, it makes no sense that there are political representatives who want to play in confusion with their neighbours and neighbours in order to try to pressure this government. Therefore, this relief of measures, if it were to take place, would be decided on the basis of a single criterion: the proposal of the Clinical Committee, according to the epidemiological evolution of previous weeks, like all the decisions we have taken since March. [[Applause]] To achieve this goal is an all-incentive, but even more so, it fits, for all those business of the hotel and leisure centres, to whom we ask them, for the sake of everyone, to close their doors. Ladies and gentlemen, the deceased and the sick are victims of the virus, and all the people we see have changed our life habits, but also the sectors affected by their economic consequences. In these weeks, the scope of the hospitality and leisure centres - leisure centres that have already been closed since August by ministerial order - is especially affected by restrictions, such as others that have been affected by the constraints that we have to take for months now because what comes first is security and health. We're aware of that, and that's why we're and we're going to stick to it, as we've been doing since all this started. We did it at night's leisure, I insist, closed by the Ministry of Health since August. They have help to pay for rent and help and loans to try to maintain employment and activity. We have also done so by approving initiatives and incentives for the trade, tourism and services sector to adapt their facilities to the security protocols - EUR 16 million invested -. We did it with a digitalization plan for pemes and self-employed people, with particular attention to teleworking - 26 million euros invested -. We did it with various initiatives to encourage the consumption of trade: the Renewal Plan of household appliances, the eCommerce Plan, or in the automotive the Renewal Plan or the Moves Plan. We did this with a plan to reactivate the cultural sector, aware of the difficulties of the 30,000 professionals working in it. We did it with a specific programme for self-employed people, the Self-employed Cheque, which we have now expanded with a rescue plan of 70 million euros to try to reduce the income drop of 50,000 self-employed people. And, of course, we're doing it now with the hostel. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that one of the sectors in which we are going to have to be dumped in the coming weeks is that of the hostel. They're suffering very directly from the effects of restrictions, and it's fair that all the administrations put themselves next to them to help them. Of course, the board is going to do it, and always since the dialogue we're keeping with the sector. From the first minute we approved help to alleviate the effects of the closure. Last week, only one day after the new restrictions were approved and even before they entered into force, the Board of Governors approved an aid scenario of between EUR 2,200 and EUR 7.000 for each of the accommodation establishments which were forced to close in the 60 municipalities referred to above. This week we guarantee that they can have access to them, regardless of whether they do home pick-up services, because we know that this is far from compensating normal activity. We will also design with them instruments of support to focus on reopening with deep-lost aids for the installation of terraces in all cafes and bars that can do so in accordance with municipal regulations, as well as specific financing mechanisms, such as the €10 million Ifi-covid line, which we will approve tomorrow at the Board of Directors for the most punished sectors - ambulances, social economy, children's leisure or night's leisure - with three years of shortage and practically zero type. But, ladies and gentlemen, it's not all in the hands of the Union; all administrations have to add their efforts to alleviate the damage that the key sector is suffering, or one of the key sectors of the economy, and that's why I repeatedly appeal to the Central Government to reduce the tourism VAT to 4 % and to keep the ERTs as long as it takes according to the health limitations. I also call on you to introduce criteria that facilitate access to aid to self-employed persons and I also appeal to all municipalities to consider a moratorium on municipal fees for the duration of this situation. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, beyond the impact on specific sectors, it is clear that the consequences of the pandemic on economies around the world are devastating. You cannot use another term that smooths the situation, because the situation is not serious, it is very serious. The falls of the second quarter around the world have been something I've never seen in the last century, and it's proving how far recovery is -- in some countries more than in others, as in ours -- from being something immediate. However, it can be said that the Greek economy is showing, at the moment, a better behavior than the average economies of autonomous communities during the first wave of the pandemic. Our GDP, our gross domestic product, has fallen around three percentage points less than the Spanish average, both quarterly and inter-annual. In employment, we have an unemployment rate of 4.5 percentage points below Spain's average unemployment rate, and they reverted during the summer campaign to the total number of social security casualties we had during confinement, a total of 35,000 new memberships. And our exports also dropped 2 points less than the average in Spain, largely because of the good behavior of the car industry. They don't interpret these brief macroeconomic points as a message of triumphalism, I don't even think they should be interpreted as a message of optimism. This is just the neutral and temporary portrait of the current economic situation we are living in; a situation that, in any case, compels us to look for formulas to turn a slower fall than that of the Spanish average into an opportunity to recover faster. On this stage I want to clearly transfer to them a threefold concern and occupation of the Government of Galicia: First, they worry about us in the short term being able to respond to the workers' most pressing needs. In this respect they know that we provide liquidity to support the maintenance and activity of the business fabric with a line that has already mobilised €128 million in loans of up to €200,000 and microcredit, with which we have credited 100% of the interest to small entrepreneurs and self-employed. Secondly, with the repayment of loans from Igape and XesGalice. Thirdly, protecting the labour market with EUR 8 million from social dialogue, anticipating the payroll to more than 3,400 families affected by ERTE who did not pay within reasonable periods, with help to complete the lower-income benefits of workers affected by ERTE and for people from 55 years of age who lost their jobs, in accordance with the agreement in the Social Dialogue Bureau. And, of course, we have in mind, thirdly, the most vulnerable, and that's why we put in place a social recovery plan with 60 million euros. We recently expanded to 6 months one of the main measures, the Basic Card, so that families with no income or very low income can make their daily purchase. We dedicate 14.6 million euros to this urgent and immediate aid that has benefited 8,000 homes, i.e. about 20,000 Welsh or Welsh. The second concern in the economic issue calls for us in the medium and long term to be able to put long lights and identify where the challenges and needs of the coming years will be to respond to them. It is only in the field of health that this Parliament has a new health law that enables us to predict the regulatory needs of the pandemic, as should the central government. It would not be necessary, in your case, for the autonomous communities to have to legislate for the absence of health legislation in the Government of Spain. Finally, in the coming days, the amendment of the Health Act will enter this House, so that there will also be a chapter in that Galician Health Act to manage the health pandemics. In the economic field, it is essential that we lay the groundwork needed to cope with recovery, and on that point I want to recognise the role of the Commission for Reactivation created in this Parliament. We have been able to reach agreements to establish a consensual calendar and the appearances that are taking place these days. We hope they can come to conclusions with a real utility. We need to take a useful look at how we all want to overcome this crisis and face a solid and fair recovery, and I believe that this Reactivation Commission can contribute to these objectives. In this sense, we have already begun to work thinking about the future, and in this month we will also register in this Parliament a proposal for a reactivation law that we will propose to process in an agile manner, as I have just mentioned; a law that seeks to change the culture of the administration so that it can become a facilitator of economic activity; a law that seeks to provide Galicia with useful tools for the collection of investments; and a law that will make available to entrepreneurs the tools necessary for their initiatives to contribute to the recovery of economic activity and employment. But it will also be key in this reactivation to the achievement of European funds, an unrepeatable opportunity that we are not willing to let go; an opportunity for Galicia to have done its duty with a serious, realistic and mature candidacy from the Autonomous Government, with a Commission Next Generation which has assumed and assumes value added to the projects presented and with a desire for dialogue and integration of the companies involved, among which are some of the most important not only of Galicia and not only of Spain, but of the world. So, from the position that gives us the work done on this issue, we will continue to demand from our central government transparency, certainty and justice in the distribution of these funds, which, unfortunately, we still do not know. But he told them before there is a triple concern that, in my view, it is shared by much of the citizenship in Spain and that in Galicia we must strive to draw. I am referring to the disappointment that the central government is concerned with introducing inappropriate, inappropriate debates that divide society and that can diminish the democratic quality of institutions while keeping intermittent in the management of the pandemic, as I have already said. Unfortunately, when the Central Central Government appears clearly, it is not to establish basic criteria related to the containment of the pandemic, because each autonomous community continues to face the problems mostly in solitary alone; it is not to provide the nation with a legislation appropriate to the needs of this historical moment, because Spain continues with the same health regulations as if there was no pandemic; it is not to respond in solidarity to the needs of each community, because, unfortunately, the funds that are being enabled are being distributed without complying with the criteria set in the autonomous system and as concrete as it considers appropriate for the Government; it is also not to deepen the IVE of the masks; it is neither to deepen the reconstruction tasks as if there were no pandemic; it is not to respond in solidarity with the needs of each community, because, unfortunately, it is not to respond in solidarity because, because, because we have continued to remain pending that clear and objective criteria are being established to meet the next generation of the next generation of the next funds; and it is not even to take as much as possible to make the problem as possible but one but one. the Goget is to make it happen. the problem. The problem is the problem is the problem is what should should be made. What is the problem is what is what is what is what is what is what is what is what should should should be represented by 1. I should be represented by. I should be represented by 1. I must must must must must must must be represented by 1. Ladies and gentlemen, since March, we've been asking you to lower the VE of the masks. A big mask all these months was trying to confuse us by saying that the European Union was banning it. Most countries in the European Union have lowered the VAT of masks to 4% and even in some countries, and now it turns out that the communication from the European Union repeatedly believes that the Member States during the time of the pandemic can reduce the VAT of masks, but the Government of Spain continues to lie to us. When the Central Government appears clearly, ladies and gentlemen, it is driving initiatives that divide, and, what is even more serious, taking advantage of a six-month-long historical alarm state. Neither the change in the election system of the Judiciary Council, nor the exclusion of the Spanish language as a vehicle in teaching, nor the attempt to establish an official truth imposed on the media have anything to do with the struggle against the pandemic. Without a doubt, it is paradoxical that the same government that remains absent in the crisis caused by the coward is hyperactive in matters that fragment Spanish society. Ladies and gentlemen, since Galicia we have been pursuing social agreement and effectiveness in measures against the pandemic, and we wish with the same force to have clear references in the central administration. It would undoubtedly be the only possibility that we have to resume uniform and coherent behaviour and conduct to face a pandemic in Spain. Therefore, in my capacity as regular representative of the State in Galicia, I believe that the delegation of powers does not mean that the delegate is absent. Co-governance is not ingovernance. I call on the Central Government to return to the management of the pandemic and, on the other hand, to refrain from policies that equate those countries with a backward democracy. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, today my intention was nothing other than to explain to you and to the whole of Greek society — to whom I owe — the reality as it is, or at least as it is according to our information and our criteria, as I have always done and will continue to do: without makeup and without half-ink, with the threats and opportunities we have on the horizon. That's why I reiterate my full consciousness that we face a few weeks and months very hard, in which we will again prove the resistance of our economy, our society and our democratic institutions. This situation demands that all of us do our best, and I assure them that for the Union, for its president and for the majority of parliamentarians who support it, it will not stay. In these moments when everything is uncertain and in which many citizens feel — with reason — disappointed by some policy and some politicians, I can tell them that we have no more commitment than correct, we have no more commitment than to protect Galicia, our public health system and our productive fabric, and we have no more commitment than to getting today's measures translated into good news in the morning. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u4	Thank you, President. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Round of parliamentary groups. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u5	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Feijóo, we are experiencing the most difficult situation in recent decades; a pandemic that the Greeks and the Greeks are facing decisively, giving us an example of what to learn every day. I do so since the humility that requires politics always, but much more in these times that we are not for triumphalisms. Only in Galicia did the virus follow the lives of 1,024 people, and I want to send a compassionate embrace to their families and friends. I also want to send words of encouragement and encouragement to the 10,000 Greeks and Greeks who are fighting today to defeat the coward; I'm sure we'll get ahead. And for all of them my commitment and my word that the BNG will continue to work without sparing any effort to help the recovery and that we would leave as soon as we were in this situation. We're going to work loyally to the country and in a spirit of help. And helping is also marking those areas where your government must improve. It's obvious something's missing. In the last month, the number of hospitalizations has tripled, there is an increase of 60% of the occupation in ICUs and the number of active infections has doubled. And that, curiously, two days before this appearance the number of PCRs performed fell into bites. On Sunday they made 7,884, yesterday the figure dropped to 4,343. Can you explain why within 48 hours the number of PCR tests falls by 45% just before you show up in this House? There's one thing that's very obvious: unless PCR, less official contagions. I hope, Mr. Feijóo, that this is not the Greek miracle of what he claims in the TV set. [[Applause]] I insist, all of BNG's collaboration to fight the virus, but collaboration also means reporting what's not doing right. I said it more than once, we can understand that in March the pandemic had taken its government by surprise, just like all governments in the world, but what is incomprehensible and unforgivable is that eight months later it will remain improvised. Mr. Feijóo, what did you do these eight months to prepare for this second pandemic, which you yourself said here that you knew what would come? Because, look, this crisis requires anticipation, it requires strategy and it requires consensus, that's what gives the country hope. And you didn't have any advance, no strategy, and so far you haven't been able to break any consensus in this Parliament. Let me take a look at what's going on in those areas that are key to fighting the pandemic. In the field of health, what did you do to anticipate, Mr Feijóo? Frankly, nothing. To anticipate was to strengthen primary care and not to do so because it remains low after ten years of cuts and with professionals who, yes, must be recognized that, in spite of the precariousness and exhaustion that they are, they are giving the best of themselves every day. Look, it's all right, but at Santiago de Compostela's ICU they just announced a strike for lack of means. What's going to have to happen in the middle of a pandemic if the professionals have to be on strike in this country? Anticipating was hiring enough trackers and preparing them. [[Applause]] And you didn't, today we still don't know how many trackers there are in our country. What we do know is that we're in line to locate infections. And today's big announcement is not to hire any more trackers, is that the citizenry has to track itself, Mr. Feijóo. This isn't serious, as serious as they weren't able or even able to organize the influenza vaccination campaign at the time when it was most needed. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Mr Feijóo, he says everything is all right, but this week the SOS Public Health Platform reported that 3,000 interventions were suspended, 60,000 consultations and 20.00 diagnostic evidence that is deteriorating the health of the Greeks and the Greeks. Mr. Feijó, take note and correct. Another key area is residences. We asked ourselves the same as many Greeks and Greeks: what did he do to anticipate and protect our elders? Today, residences are once again the zero area of the pandemic, with thousands of infections and hundreds of deaths. There were days when that daily, tearing part of the dead told us that half of them were senior residents. And today it's again a blow to compare the death of our elders with an average; it's, of course, a sickening and shameful use of our elders, the deaths of our elders, to compare itself with an average. [[Applause]] And, look, they're still taking no action. Actually, they only act when a massive infection occurs; it's the perfect portrait of their inability to anticipate it. I want to ask you a question. I don't know if you've had time to read the complaint that the workers of the Salvaterra residence transferred to you. Did you have time to read it? Well, allow me to make an extract of what they reported: "The facilities do not meet the minimum maintenance or health conditions, the residents' rooms have serious deficiencies, the residents remain locked in their rooms and there is not enough material to change their bed clothes whenever necessary. 90% of users have ulcers caused by immobility, because no postural changes are made, and can be up to ten hours without changing their diapers." And they add, "We could continue over 10 pages reporting irregularities, neglect, lack of personnel and abandonment and even institutional abuse towards users." This residence, Mr. Feijóo, has been intervening for fourteen days by the Board, and the workers wonder—just like us—how is that in these fourteen days they have done absolutely nothing until this matter comes into public light. What else has to happen, Mr. Feijóo, to act in the residences? [[Applause]] Lack of anticipation in health care, lack of anticipation in residences, and we see what happens with another important area, education. They have no clear protocols and it's your competence, Mr. Feijóo. Class ratios were not reduced, staff were not hired enough, school enrolment is not guaranteed in case of infection. Your big contribution, Mr. Feijóo, is that educational centers are looking for life, doing the work that neither you nor your Education Council are able to do. This is your answer to health care. We must also focus on what is happening in the economic sphere, where it has done so in advance, Mr Feijóo. Look, while other communities are already going through the second line of direct aid to self-government, in our country, in Galicia, the more than 200,000 self-government and self-government did not receive a single euro of direct aid from their government. Germany closed the inn and accompanied him with a shock plan where they compensate for their losses, Mr. Feijóo. Here you close the sector for a month without any direct help published in the DOG. Today they're back in the street for the hospitality professionals because, of course, we see that their help isn't enough. [[Applause]] And the same is true of trade, tourism or culture. Look, the economic and labor situation of many Greeks and Greeks is distressing today. There are thousands of families who have lost their income, who live in fear, afraid of an uncertain future, and the anxiety that causes them to see how they accumulate and accumulate bills without being able to deal with them. We are, Mr Feijóo, at an unprecedented moment of crisis, and the answer cannot be improvisation and lack of anticipation, because it makes us lose a precious, indispensable time to save lives and save jobs. That's why since the BNG we've been offering our tender hand, our complete and loyal collaboration with this country, which demands us more than ever political capitals; the policy that is anticipated, that gives solutions, that helps us get out of the way, that allows us to regain confidence in the future. That's the collaboration and policy that BNG offers to Galicia. Look, I didn't refuse our tender hand. We want to continue to focus on proposals that are necessary and that today we synthesize them in a decalogue of urgent proposals. It is necessary: First. A plan to strengthen public health already, with an additional and immediate investment of 200 million euros in primary care; more doctors and doctors and less telemedicine. Second. A contingency plan that guarantees health care to the whole population beyond the cod. Third. To intervene in all senior residences, to protect our elders and also those workers who are doing an exceptional job. And do weekly tests to be able to detect infections. Fourth. Hire and form more trackers. Fifth. Increase the number of PCRs that occur every day. Sixth. A real rescue plan for the economic sectors most affected by the crisis, hospitality, trade, tourism and culture, with measures such as really compensating for losses or reducing rents. Seventh. To provide more staff and resources with the educational system, with an objective, which is to guarantee safe and quality teaching in times of pandemic and end the digital divide. Eighth. You have already prepared a plan B which anticipates a possible total or partial scenario of teledoc. Nineteen. A country strategy to get Galicia to receive everything that belongs to this European hedge fund. We've already put forward a proposal, a minimum count of 12,600 million euros. Let's fight for that 9%, make a country agreement here and don't vote against it, as they're doing. And finally, tenth. Transparency, Mr Feijó, in the data and also transparency before this Parliament. We're in a state of alarm and the duty of a political officer is to appear periodically in this House.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u7	That's why we ask you, as long as the state of alarm lasts, to compare every fortnight to account for the situation and the measures. Finished, ladies and gentlemen, with a final and brief reflection. Today we live in a Galicia and a different world, nothing is the same, and at the moment, nothing is better because we accumulate only losses: loss of a loved one, loss of health, loss of employment, loss of our social relationships... from this Parliament we have an obligation to do everything possible, as far as possible, so that the Greeks and the Greeks will regain normality as soon as possible. And I already announce to them that BNG will spare no effort to achieve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Caballero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Feijóo, ladies and gentlemen, we are living a second wave of the pandemic that has a fundamental situation of gravity; a situation of gravity in health, economic and social, a scenario that concerns us all over the world, in Europe, in Spain and here, in Galicia; a second wave where numbers are also worrying, in which we see that today in Galicia there are 500 people entering hospitals and around a hundred people in intensive care and surveillance units; and a serious situation with a number of very relevant and also ratios that we would like to have everyone on the spot for 100,000 inhabitants. And do well, Mr. Feijó, you come in. It's a debt I had with this Parliament. We want to ask you to appear regularly at the parliamentary headquarters. Now, when you point out that you have delegated powers, remember that you do not appear through the crisis of the coward in this Parliament - it is true that with elections by means - since May 7th and here there have been no appearances throughout the crisis of the coward since March more than on two occasions by the President of the Union to do an analysis of this situation. We therefore want to ask you, with the same loyalty that you have in this Parliament, to come together regularly, to explain the situation, to explain the measures, to engage in dialogue and to share a worksheet that can help this country to come out of a crisis of so serious importance. You cannot turn your back on the Galician Parliament, you must be in Parliament, because speaking in Parliament is to explain to you, Mr Feijóo, what is happening with the crisis; it is to take account of your responsibilities in health care, economic and social issues, and we want the President of the Union to appear regularly in this Parliament. Look, in recent times what we've seen is that there was improvisation, inconsistencies and a round turn of their way of understanding this second wave in a matter of a few days. You've been apologizing for many weeks to criticize the state of alarm. He said it was a demolition alarm state. It was dedicated to criticizing that the alarm state could give powers to self-governments, because it said they were "an alarm stadiums." And you are the same as in the month of May that it was necessary to decentralize: "He raised the tone against the government and demanded the return of competences to Galicia." You were always asking for decentralization throughout the first wave, and now that you have all the competences you've been critical of for many weeks that you could have, criticising the state of alarm and criticizing the situation. So he lost a time that it was necessary and fundamental capacities for him, from his government, from the Council of Economics, from the Council of Health and from the Council of Social Policy, to do the duties that Galicia needed. On October 26, you said you had to be against the state of alarm, which was a matter that affected the reputational capital. What was going on in the country was your concern, talking about the reputation capital! By the way, without understanding what it implies in the models of reputation and in the models of economic evolution of the brand of a country. That was October 26. But on October 30, four days later — no laugh, Mr Tellado, because they are serious issues in the country — the president of the board said it was a demolition state, you had to close seven cities. That's three days after you refused to shield Galicia. And on November 4th, 60 municipalities had to be closed, they had to be placed in their perimeters, and the hostel was closed. At all that time you've been losing the ability of the board to work to be prepared for a pandemic of such gravity and to do all the duties, and you haven't done them. Of course there are inconsistencies and that it is still possible today to come from Madrid to Cedera, but it is not possible to come from Coruña to Cedera; or it is possible to come from Madrid to Baiona, but you cannot go from Vigo to Baiona, because you refused to shield this community on a line of action in which you followed the President of Madrid, Ayuso, who is not the model we want for Galicia, nor when you refuse to shield Madrid, nor when you reduce the number of PCRs so as not to have explanations to give when the number of positives is greater. There are inconsistencies and we ask you to correct them. We want weighted measures because in a crisis of so serious health is the first, and at the same time we have to give the economy a chance. You will count on the loyalty of the Socialist Party of Galicia, a critical responsibility of which you, Mr. Feijóo, should not have a complaint, because we have different ways of seeing things, but you have the powers to determine what measures must be taken at every moment in order to be able to fight the virus. You have all that information, that information that doesn't give to the municipalities, that doesn't give us to the different opposition groups, and you have to exercise and take on those responsibilities. But when you refuse to make a decision and in four days you have to make far more dramatic decisions, it shows that you were out of play. I was out of the game. The president of the board was out of the reality of what was happening, focused on his strategy of opposition to the Spanish Government against the state of alarm, instead of preparing schools, instead of preparing primary care, instead of preparing residences, instead of preparing the board to save people. You worked to save the People's Party instead of working to save citizenship from the most serious crisis we are living in the country, and we ask you to rectify it. Because, look, your account in question is very clear. [[Applause]] There are no trackers in Galicia. You said there were 6,152. And since there are no trackers, then there's no possibility of looking for the sources of the virus and there's no traceability, and that's why you justify doing less PCR. But the Health Counsellor said this very clearly in an interview that returned to Spain. Because they asked him, "How many trackers are there in Galicia? "I'm not going to change the speech. "It's just that you don't give the data. "I don't say so much for that. "And what scares him?" "I don't know what they're doing in another community." "I ask you about Galicia. How many are working at the Contact Monitoring Centre? -That's what's necessary. At first, in May, there were 20. And the counselor answers: "It's grown, the number is variable, I'm not going to tell you." This is the policy of obscurantism that you've been posing since Galician Union. 62% of the total cases detected in Galician covid, according to Carlos III Institute of Epidemiological Surveillance, have no trace, no contact is revealed. Two out of three infected in Galicia don't know where they come from, and you don't have a tracking structure to track the virus's source. And when you don't know the strategy to pose those types of elements, you reduce the number of PCRs. In the last fifteen days, around 60 thousand PCRs have been established. The previous fortnight was 125,000. Why are they halving the number of PCRs that have been done in Galicia for the last two weeks? They'll say, we don't have the traceability to know who to test. Then put tracers to test it. This is a serious situation in primary care that you want to turn into medical telecare rather than presence, and, in addition, with a campaign of the flu that was overwhelmed, which was a bohorno show for the Government of Galicia. This government, which ends in every newspaper, "against the flu, we have a vaccine," quickly found that there were no vaccines and that, when you gave the appointments to so many Greeks to vaccinate, they would come to their appointments and send them home. [[Mr. Caballero Miguez shows the Galician Union influenza vaccination billboard.]] That's the failure to manage what you have to talk about, Mr. Feijóo. That scenario has to be corrected, and it has to be corrected also in the residences, where you at some point assumed that there was a mistake, a failure and that there was a change of model, but you didn't. Today in residences there are massive contagions, no necessary blockage measures were taken, no powerful measures were taken to isolate and remove them, with massive contagions, the biggest infected ones, and today the larger ones in the residences are still afraid of the improthement they have in so many places. There's no day, there's no day when we don't have any dramatic news about what's going on in the residences, and we can't go on like this. Today, all Spain also rises with national news of residences in Galicia : "Galice finds elderly people locked up and with ulcers in a residence". [[Mr. Knight Miguez teaches news.]] I don't want to fall into demagogy or any kind of excessive planning, but this is a reality, and you have to clarify it and you have to explain what's going on with these bigger ones. It's an investigation that is due and that the Council has to address it as well. [[Applause]] We don't want to be digging into problems, but we can't cover things up. We have to tell the country what's happening. Mr. Feijóo, in the economic sense, you are the great absentee. Today, while we're here, dozens of hosts are manifesting themselves in front of the Government of Galicia, the Council of Galicia, to call for help, because you haven't provided just one direct help to our country's hostel, when we've been in emergency since March. All these months, not a direct help. And of course, he was absent, absent in decisions to support hospitality, commerce, tourism, culture...; absent in short-term economic policy measures to save a country in an emergency situation; but also lacking direction to take the country in the medium and long term. Mr. Feijóo, obscurantism, lack of data, lack of guidance, are errors that are synonymous with his government, and he has to change. It has to change the way information is transferred, it has to change the way it commits itself to fundamental issues, it has to rectify the mistakes that it makes in health policy, in the policy of older residences and especially in economic policy. The economy of Galicia is experiencing an unprecedented crisis, as the whole of the countries and also the Spanish economy suffer, and it is true that with less entity and less depth than elsewhere, basically because the weight of tourism in Galicia's GDP is very different from that of communities like Balearics or as Canary Islands, it is obvious. But the condition of that crisis is so deep that we need the Government of Galicia to get to work and have a plan of action, and it doesn't have it. When you talk about European funds, you show your failure to compromise, the failure to steer and the lack of country strategy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u10	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u11	We don't know what country economic model he wants. You think, by proposing a strategy and saying that you want to spend more on European funds and send an Excel sheet to the Madrid Government saying that you have 108 projects -- that nobody knows, that you're in your drawer, that you're hiding and that you don't want to show or discuss -- that's the way to make politics. It has neither strategy nor direction, but, I say more, that is not the way to get support from European funds, because only with a country agreement and with a parliamentary agreement will we be able to move Europe and the Spanish state that there are priorities in the country. That strategy of saying there are seven projects and then sending an Excel that collects 108 -- that nobody knows -- is a wrong strategy. Consensually a country strategy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u12	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u13	...in the face of the crisis and we plan the best to get Galicia forward.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u14	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u15	He'll count on the PSdEG's hand, because at difficult times I've already told him on one occasion that his luck, the fate of the Government, is also the luck of all Galicia. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u16	Thank you, Mr. Knight. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u17	Mr President-in-Office, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, as time progresses, we see more clearly the essence of the crisis of cowardice. The seven months of experience we have accumulated show that this is not a exclusively health conflict, that is not an exclusively economic problem, that is not a exclusively social problem, and that is not an exclusively political problem either. It is, as in so many other things and as in so many other episodes of human beings, a problem of struggle for life. The most obvious manifestation of this fact is the more than 1,000 deceased people we have suffered in Galicia as a result of this pandemic, the more than 5,300 hospitalized throughout the pandemic, the nearly 600 ICU throughout the pandemic and the 32,000 who successfully overcome the disease. Of course, to all of them, our greatest solidarity, understanding and support. But together with those who suffer directly, the pandemic is also a struggle for family life, social life, economic life and also for freedom and democracy, because deep down we are a society of free individuals we want to love, we want to work, we want to go out with friends, we want to embrace loved ones, share parties and also duels and, like not, we have the conditioning of the virus. And the problem with the pandemic is that it's about living with the virus, living with the pandemic; first, protecting biological life, but also protecting our way of life, in the family, in society, at work, in the study centers, in hospitals, in the streets, in the squares, in the homes. The dichotomys are false if they want to be presented between health-economics, health-democracy, health with shelter or health without shelter. We all have to live with the virus, but making it compatible with all aspects of life. Certainly, as the President explained, the numbers of infections and casualties in Galicia are better than those in the average of Spain, although we live in one of the worst countries in this respect. As a well-known Greek political analyst said, here can only be the fruit of two things: either of the intercession of the apostle, something which the opposition, of course, and with reason, does not value, or because there is a differential in public performance, in the performance of different governments. There is a differential in the performance of the Government of Spain in relation to the other countries of Europe and there is also a differential in the behaviour and action of the Government of the United States in relation to the other autonomous governments of Spain. Of course, this is not a consolation, but a motivation to continue acting as best we know. The least bad results are a result, first, of better individual behaviour of the Greeks, and second, of better social behavior, but also of better political behavior. And today, after several months of political action, the difference in the action of the various governments and the experience accumulated by it enables us to come to four conclusions on how the Government is working presided over by Alberto Núñez Feijóo, with an objective: to make social, family and economic life compatible with the pandemic as much as possible, minimizing, in the first place, the health impact, but also the economic, social, family and personal impact. And he did, he keeps doing it, and we support him to continue doing it with four very basic principles: firstly, with regard to the criteria of authority, experts. This is what we mean to make politics with capitals, aside from any other partisan or ideological consideration. The Board set up a clinical committee, an economic committee, with the best of public administration and society, the world of university and the world of business. He's been always resorting to experts. Decisions have always been based on the criteria of authority of experts, of scientific authority. The two committees - which are known to be composed - which, during the meetings of their members in the Reactivation Committee, made it clear that they have all the information available and even praised the responsiveness and immediate application of their proposals by the Union, were always respected and determined the actions of the Union, both in the epidemiological field and in the social and economic sphere. The technical criteria, always with full information, with permanent meetings and conclusions that apply after a consensus reached among the scientific members of those committees themselves. And when the opposition criticizes the measures or proposes contradictory things, because these days we hear, on the one hand, improvisation of the Socialist Party, when it was supported by the Clinical Committee, when the socialist minister himself applauds the decisions that were taken in Galicia, when improvisation is accused and at the same time demands weight and when the BNG asks for total closure, I wonder: are those statements based on some expert criterion? Are they based on the dialogue between experts, who in turn propose to the political leaders who make these statements any concrete measures? Are they based on available knowledge, full information? Finally, the use of the dead who sometimes do by some spokesman I leave it to the consideration of those who listen to us; I am unable to refer to it. [[Applause]] The failure to certify me is consistent with empirical sciences, and especially medicine, but our commitment is to be with them and to do what they tell them, because they know what they know, but they know a lot more than any of us. The second principle of action of the Union was to anticipate and react, not improvise measures; all of them were supported by the corresponding technical committees. We have to differentiate between improvisation and speed in decision-making. We've seen him in the past. The opposition made decisions and made proposals, for example, on the postponement of the election, which had nothing to do with the scientific reports which it gave the Union and which were validated as certain seeing what the epidemiological situation is in July and what the epidemiological situation is now. We saw him in the proposals he made during the alarm state, for example, on the impact that he had on children's house closure and on the request that he be opened for children to go on a walk. In the second one, we're dealing with the VIE of the masks, which are essential for combating the virus, and what we're going through is an apology based on a supposed ban on the European Union, when in Portugal and Belgium it's at 6%, in Italy and the Netherlands it's at 0%, and here it's still at 21%, and in the end, it's the 1,600 million euros cost to the Administration. But we also see that ability to anticipate and react in health matters. I believe that few communities can say that there is an example of separation from the covered circuits and I don't hide in hospitals to those who can come with all guarantees anyone who feels the need to attend a hospital. And I think we should say this, that the Greek hospitals are the safest hospitals in Spain. Secondly, because there was also a collection of materials. Here today, insinuations were made about the PCRs, without taking into account that the PCRs are determined by the doctor's own method and that, in addition, you did some insinuations that you would have to prove because they're really serious. Or they come up with conclusions of anonymous complaints when the Board immediately did a health and social inspection upon having knowledge of a -- I insist -- a complaint, which is also anonymous. I've been looking forward to everything they say about health these days, and I thought, "What would you be thinking about when you saw the Minister of Health, accompanied by the Mayor of Vigo and the Government delegate, the Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro, Vigo?" He attended a lab, and here, over months and years, we've been hearing that it was a private hospital, that he wasn't going to have a lab and that it was going to be a disaster for the public health of the Vigilian metropolitan area. "The minister applauded the newspaper squabbling that makes Vigo the essential services," and you say nothing of it. [[Mr. Puy Fraga teaches news.]] When the president says that the pre-preparation has allowed to cope with the health crisis better because the facilities were better, you say that this is false, and the minister goes and disowns them; he dismisses them by visiting a laboratory that did not exist, in a hospital that is private, according to you, and that they continue to defend. [[Applause]] The anticipation and preparation is in the more than 89 action plans, programmes and protocols that all these Junta councils, all the departments of the Union, have approved over the last few weeks, highlighting, of course, in the social and educational fields, the leaders, through the new economic vice-presidency, in the economic field. Obviously, the anticipation is with the tractor projects. We were the first communities to develop tractor projects before the European aid plan was drawn up. And, of course, what they're doing and what they're getting to know. Do you have any drawbacks, for example, or something to say about what is presented in the field of biotechnology with Zendal or what was previously presented in the car sector? The third criterion of action, the third principle, is that of minimal intervention and maximum protection, acting on the basis of epidemiological reality at every time and in every place. And the important thing about this is our position on legislation. The opposition just pretends to have either a state of alarm or a ministerial order that limits fundamental rights. In this Parliament we are debating the proposal for an organic law which allows us to deal specifically with, with guarantees, with an epidemic situation like the one we are living today. Opposition groups have abstained, and this week this bill is going to Congress. Let's hope there's a reaction to legal security, to support the decisions that are made, when we see that the courts make decisions that are not always consistent and, in addition, with all guarantees, prudence and advantages for citizenship and patients. We're looking at the problems in the alarm state. Ask your Asturias comrades to serve their alarm status when they ask for confinement. The majority group, in this sense, President, supports its announcements, and we will work together with the rapid processing of health and economic laws that in the autonomic field will enable us to respond more effectively and quickly to the pandemic. And the fourth and last principle of action was loyalty. We're still loyal. Information and transparency were, during the period when Parliament was dissolved, something exceptional, comparable, for example, without going further, with what has been done in the Basque Parliament, where its President has only once appeared. But here's the president also coming today. I can only think that you, the two opposition groups, who have just supported a state of alarm in which the President of the Government, who is primarily responsible for the measures taken in the state of alarm, have no responsibility for either the Courts or Congress, which is the constitutionally responsible for monitoring the state of alarm, and you, who have just voted for a six-month extension...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u18	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u19	...they're here to say that the president doesn't show up, when he's coming in, and asking him to show up every fifteen days, when the Block complied with two months of the report of the President of the Government of Spain, who is responsible for the measures being taken. It's really amazing! I'm done. Mr. President, you have and you have our personal support, because we know that in the staff these kinds of situations wear out and cause us to go through a lot of hard and difficult moments, but above all we support it in the political sphere so that we continue to work to reconcile life with the pandemic, to anticipate health, to respect scientific criteria, to dialogue with society, to anticipate and to react when circumstances demand it and to do so gradually and faithfully and with constructive proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u20	Thank you, Mr. Puy. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. President-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Madam spokesperson for the BNG, it's surprising that you're speaking to me in advance, Your Honor. You think the 35 people on the Clinical Committee don't know about epidemiology or health proposals, and you've come here to teach us a lesson in what to do. I am open to all of your lessons, also to the lessons of a spokesperson who has a vast experience in public management, but you should be a little more humble in relation to doctors, health personnel, the infectious surgeons, the urgenciologists, the killers, the preventers, the microbiologists, the nursing staff and the primary care doctors who make up the Clinical Committee for the Galician Health Service and who have been anticipating every month during the last seven to the measures of the Central Government and the good part of the measures of the autonomous communities. That you two tell me ahead of time, Mr. PSdeg's spokesman, it's a surprising thing. You will remember that your responsible proposal, it would be, that the only thing you had as a goal was to take care of the lives of the Greeks, was to make elections during the second wave. That was your proposal, Mrs. Pontón and Mr. Caballero; a proposal that will pursue them throughout the legislation. In that proposal they said that what we wanted was to protect the interests of the People's Party of Galicia, when it turns out that, if I were to be guided by you, we would be in the month of October holding elections; that is, we would be unable to hold elections in the second wave of the pandemic in the autonomous community. A little more rigor and a little more humility wouldn't be bad for everyone, and right now, in my opinion, it's essential. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, there are 1,024 people from whom we will never recover their lives again, Mrs. Pontón. Do you know why you can say this data? Because we report that every day. Do you know why we don't know the number of people who died in Spain? Because you support a government that doesn't believe in the number of deaths in Spain. That's why, Mrs. Pontón, coming here to give us lessons of rigor, it's, at least, surprising. Look, to try to manipulate, intoxicate, with the number of PCRs that are made, and with the whole health system, 40,000 people, working to make less PCRs and so the president of the Board, it's not an insult to me, it's an insult to 40,000 professionals than you say they're doing less PCRs so Mr. Feijóo can look at himself in the Chamber. But, Mrs. Pontón, will you go on like this during the legislation? You're really going to keep it in the replica? Can you say that we give instructions to do less PCR with the objective of coming into the chamber with less contagion? It's unfortunate, Mrs. Pontón! He doesn't know the information system of the Galego Health Service, he doesn't care, he doesn't care, he doesn't care, he doesn't care, and he's intoxicating, and he's poisoning the work of the Galego Health Service. [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón, the PCRs we have notified on Monday bring mainly the ones they do on Sunday, and that's why Monday's number of PCRs is usually low, just like the number of deceased during the low weekend because they are updated on Monday. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that the Ministry of Health does not give a single data either on Saturdays or on Sundays. The pandemic, the state of alarm, believes that the Ministry of Health doesn't have to account for two days of the week. The Galician Health Service, yes, gives all the data, and recombines, if there's any urgency, during the first few days of the week. The Ministry of Health does not even reflect the number of deaths reported by autonomous communities. And you come here to give lessons of information, of transparency, Mr. Knight! But really, at least you need to have some professional honesty and political honesty. Look, one of the reasons I dedicate myself to politics is because the truth has to beat the lie, because if the lie wins the truth, it's neither political nor democracy. [[Laughter]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is very good to denounce what is not done well, of course, it is right; now, to insinuate with false data, to intoxicate, to question the data of the Galician Health Service, Mrs. Pontón, is regrettable. [[Applause]] To say, ladies and gentlemen, that you call strikes in hospitals is nothing new, of course; that the BNG, through the unionist central IGC, summons strikes in hospitals is normal. The normal thing would be not to call them, that would certainly be great news. [[Murmurs.]] You're out of everything, out of social dialogue, out of concertation, out of negotiating tables. You go for free, because you think you're superior to others and, unfortunately, most Greeks little by little know who I am. Look, it calls into question the consensus. But if we did the Reactivation Commission to seek consensus, and it says there is no consensus! I compare BNG's request, and tell me I'm not transparent. As the spokesperson for the House's majority group said, the only Member who has in the Courts voted that he had a state of alarm for six months without the presence of the president, without even the president being present in the House when the state of alarm is voted on, and you come here saying that the appearance... Mr. Knight, Mr. Sánchez is fine and Mr. Feijó too! But what are we left with? If Mr Sánchez, who delegate the powers, does he not have to appear, why should we attend the delegates, if the delegate does not appear? This is, at least, surprising, Mr. Knight. These measuring rods, these ways of thinking that the Greeks are fools and that we don't know how to read, how to multiply, how to divide... No, no, Mr. Knight, we know the basic rules perfectly, and above all we're not going to intoxicate with certain false parallelisms. [[Applause]] Look, to question the flu, the flu campaign, it's very unfortunate. It is unfortunately surprising that the campaign of greater participation in the history of the Autonomous Community of Galicia failed. 15 1,500 people were vaccinated, 35% more than in the previous campaign. At this time of year, 9.8% of people over 65 years of age were vaccinated, 57% more than health personnel and more than 65 years of age, 64% more. This Sunday Sergas received 70,000 new vaccines -- 70,000 new vaccines -- for under 65 years of age, increasing the stock to over 150,000. We have all the doses that are needed according to the previous appointments requested, and we are vaccinating people who are not within the public health parameter in the area of influenza vaccine; that is, people who are neither vulnerable, nor belonging to groups with risk factors, nor to health professionals, nor to pregnant women. We've acquired 985,000 doses, 45% more than in the previous campaign, and they're here talking about the influenza campaign, when that campaign can reach December 30, which is when it ends, with -- I insist -- 35% more vaccinates, and they come to question the work of health professionals. You're here to talk about the suspensions of the interventions. But is there somewhere in Europe where the programmed activity is not suspended as a result of the pandemic? Do you have any hospital management manual, Mrs. Pontón, where do you think we should continue with normal scheduled activity during the pandemic? And he comes here, because he told you, I don't know who, that 3,000 interventions were suspended. Too bad they didn't tell him to suspend 6,000! You don't care. If you don't know how many interventions you're doing, you can talk more about 3,000 than 6,000! Come to the ball. That's right, the BNG takes the figures, and if we take the figures, we do demagogy. Is it possible to measure a pandemic without collecting the comparative figures of autonomous communities that we share Spain or the best countries in the European Union? But can you do more demagogy in less time, Mrs. Pontón? It's hard. I, of course, have never seen in ten minutes, in a pandemic, a Member of Parliament or a Member of Parliament do more demagogy than you did in your intervention. [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón, you're in the habit of residences, trying to say that the People's Party privatizes residences. Another one! But if we don't privatize any residences since we got to the government! Is there any contamination in private homes, Mrs. Pontón? Is there any contamination in the workplace? Is there any contagion in Moncloa? Then? Turns out the most vulnerable people, 25,000, where they work 17,000 people, do you think they're free of any contamination? Look, you brought here an investigation commission for the residences. Why don't you introduce it once if you really have that interest? No, because you have to say yes, but then you don't. Look, with all due respect, of course we're going to continue working in residences, of course: 300 inspections in residences; 38 sanctioning procedures; number of lads -- that's how you work, Mrs. Pontón -- 51,564 among workers; percentage of positives, 1%; number of casts among residents, 53,280; percentage of positives, 2.4%; number of homeless residences right now, 85%. And this data can't be said, can't it be said that there are 408 cases detected in residences, which is 1.8%? Look, the number of deaths in homes in the first wave was 274, and now it's 160; this makes a total of 43%. We can't say yet, because we don't know, the number of deaths in Spain, because we refuse to give the data to the Government of Spain. I've never heard of you asking for the number of deceased in Spain. But data from the media believe that the total number of deceased 49% corresponds to residences; in Galicia, 7 points less. And the ratio of deceased covid on residence squares in Galicia is 2.1%, less than half that in Spain, which is 4.41%. There are countries that do give data to people who die in residences. In Canada, for example, 80% of the total deaths in coronavirus, according to the Canadian Government, occur in residences; in Norway, Israel and Ireland, 60%; in Belgium and France, 50%; in Spain, 49%; in Galicia, 43%. And you think it's wrong to say this data? Does it turn out that we have more consideration of Basque nationalism than of German nationalism for accepting that in Galicia things are being managed with better results or with less bad results than in the rest of the autonomous communities? Are you really interested in Galicia or are you simply using Galicia as a political excuse to try to question whether the number of PCRs makes them Mr. Feijó for greater honor and lust? Everything is possible, but there are things that when they pass from the limit are in no way acceptable. And I come to ask for respect for the Galego Health Service, for the nursing and health care professionals. And that's why I think it's up to me to propose. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] How can you come here to say that we have no help for the hospitality if we are the only public administration in Galicia that we have direct help for the inn? How can you tell me here that we haven't given direct help to the hospitality if we've been negotiating with them for over fifteen days and we've been on the social dialogue table for more than three weeks negotiating with trade union organizations help for self-employed people, help for hospitality? As you can say, when it turns out I don't know the municipalities governed by the PSOE and the BNG where they say, look, we're not going to charge the IBI, we're not going to charge the water rate, we're not going to charge the terrace fee, we're not going to charge the activity...? That's the logic! That's our proposal, and that's the proposal we put on the table. And IVE is going to reduce 4%. These are the proposals that, along with the direct aids of between 2,200 and 7000 euros, can really help the inn, which is really going on. Look, we are going — as in all residences — to analyze carefully all the situations that move in any of them. How can it be said that there is no institutional height in a residence that is intervened by the Galician board and that is a residence that is not within the perimeter of the public sector, as in the case of Salvaterra? Or how can it be omitted within that communiqué which is said by the communicators that the assistance improved as soon as it was intervened by the Autonomous Community? Why haven't these complaints been made before so that we can activate the inspection of social services and check that residence? Mrs. Pontón, if you think there are residences where you don't meet, please, let's make the corresponding complaints to activate the inspections. What's clear, ladies and gentlemen, is to come here to talk about BNG's proposals, which if a virtual education plan... but it was presented and boycotted by BNG the next minute! If you have to appear in alarm states and it turns out that whatever the alarm status says doesn't appear and you support it! The only BNG proposal that is really a different proposal is confinement, total confinement of the population of Galicia. Mrs Pontón, are you considering the total confinement of the people of Galicia or was that last week's proposal and has now changed that proposal? I suppose we'll have the right to know, and that will be the star proposal of Greek nationalism: confining all the population and closing all the work centers and all the economic centers. And it turns out that you get to this Parliament and you shut up about the proposal that you... from time to time the great epidemiological proposal is undoubtedly based on contrasted management criteria. Look, I don't know exactly what you want. I don't know if what you're trying to do is just go back to the steps of nationalism or if you're really interested in the country. As I am interested in the country, we will continue to manage. And that's why I'm surprised, Mr. Knight, that you come to me here to teach me lessons to attend. But, Mr. Caballero, don't you realize your top leader doesn't even show up in the House when he asks for six months of alarm status? And you think there's no cost of reputation? I didn't speak of reputational capital. That's what you know a lot about the capital; I talked about the cost of reputation in one country being six months of alarm and charging Christmas and Holy Week. Why don't you talk to the hospitality sector? [[Murmurs.]] How can reservations be made for hotels in Spain, the third world power of tourism, and declare the state of alarm until May 9th? Just for what? Not to be in the Chamber every fortnight. What about the economic sectors? What's the matter? If our problem isn't that, the problem is to get the majority to get an alarm state for fifteen days. That's really how you're taking Spain right now. Of course, I disagreed that the Government of Spain had gone into everything and now it turns out to be nothing! But there's a middle term, Mr. Knight! Of course, I criticized him for not moving from county to county with similar epidemiological situations! We'll leave. Of course, I criticized that the whole population had been confined, regardless of how many municipalities there were in Galicia where there was no single case of coronavirus! We're confined to 60; the remaining 250 are not confined. Of course, I criticized him for not being able to attend the animals, of course, Mr. Caballero! and I still criticize him. Of course I criticized the children who couldn't get out of the street and the dogs did, of course I criticized him! And I also criticized that we were going to 17 states of alarm, and we're not in 17, we're actually in 19; I thought Ceuta and Melilla were the government of Spain's responsibility, but not. The only hospitals managed by the Government of Spain are Ceuta and Melilla. You, who are interested in epidemiological data, will see that Ceuta and Melilla are the worst managed places in Spain by the Government of Spain and the Ministry of Health of the Government of Spain. They asked for the confinement both, the incidence rate number in the last 14 days in Ceuta is 1,066, and in Melilla, of 1,059. The only two hospitals and the only doctors that depend on the Ministry of Health are those of the worst data in the country. And you come here to give kind of epidemiology and health management! But, Mr. Knight, is it really true that you don't even have to look at the direct responsibility of the Government? It's amazing! It is surprising, ladies and gentlemen, that they also come to talk about how they consider it appropriate that the hostary should be manifesting itself; but there was a little detail left: in front of the Government's sub-delegations. That detail is nimio, what else does it give? [[Murmurs.]] If the important thing is to get you, see if they tell me that, and that's it! What else is there to say? But, look, with regard to the 108 projects that nobody knows, do you think the Committee of Economic Experts, where is a former president of the Union — much more sensible, of course, than you do — not know the proposals made by the experts themselves? Do you believe that the 108 projects are one thing that happens to us and that it does not happen to the forest sector, to the automotive sector, to the wood sector and that it does not occur to the primary sectors, to the energy sectors, to the technology sectors? And now he says if we advise him he's going out. Mr. Knight, I almost ask you to pass on the projects that the Socialist Party has to know they're going out, because we can make a quick crossing and, so, at best, we've got something. But, Mr. Knight — I tell you with all my cordiality — do you really mean it whenever you intervene? Or not? I think it's a no less question, because I'm trying to talk seriously, and the obvious economic issues that concern me. Do you agree with the general confinement of BNG or not? Don't you? Well, all right, I recognize that the opposition has quite consistent and concordant proposals. The truth is, I'd like to know, gentlemen, everything we do wrong to improve it. But come here to question the data of the Galego Health Service, the diagnostic activity of microbiologists and nursing, the number of tests that we perform on weekends, the functioning of the third-year residences, the transparency capacity of the Government of Galicia or simply to speak ill of the country, when it turns out that we are — together with Valencia — the autonomous peninsula community with the best data in Spain and when we have the percentage of UCI beds and planted beds with the second best percentage of all Spain... and think that all this is not because some things — most of them — are doing better than the rest of the country... I'm very proud of public health, I'm very proud of health professionals, and I'm very proud of being a Greek, and it's an honor for me to preside over Galicia in moments of greatest difficulty. I'm sorry for you not to be; for me it is and it will continue to be. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u22	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u23	For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Pontón Mondelo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u24	Mr. Feijó, I have to tell you that we expected much more from you. We were expecting a lot more. Of course, we hoped it would not fall into an absolutely useless triumphalism in the middle of a pandemic in which Galicia is far from controlling the data. And, of course, what I'm wondering is if this is going to follow the entire legislation and if every time we point to a problem your answer is not going to be like solving it but like attacking who's reporting the situation in this country. That's your answer, your personal attack, insult, disqualification. [[Applause]] That is the policy with which you want to put the Greek Parliament in the midst of the greatest economic, social and health pandemic and, of course, the worst situation the country has in recent decades. This is what you offer to the Greeks and to the Greeks. He'll never have me a personal insult or a disqualification. On the contrary, we will continue to point out the problems and we will continue to focus on the measures in which it is necessary to act because, indeed, these are not times of triumphalism. [[Applause]] Look, in this crisis we need a government to lead and a president to stand up, not to hide or throw balloons out, as you're doing continuously. We need someone to handle -- I insist -- and don't hide. And you, during the pandemic, first hid in the TVG, hid behind the single command, and now you want to hide behind the Clinical Committee, which, look, in attendance at the Reconstruction Commission, the person who came to appear left it very clear: who makes the decisions is the Government. Therefore, Mr. Feijóo, assume what your responsibilities are. [[Applause]] And yes, I have asked a question that deserves an answer, not a disqualification, Mr. Feijóo, because I believe that the Greeks and the Greeks have to know why it falls into bites, with a reduction that has no precedent in the last historical series, the number of PCRs that have taken place in the last 48 hours. You explain to us why there's this reduction, because it's obvious that you gave doctors instructions to do less PCR. Yes, yes, we have an instruction you had to withdraw Sergas from asking primary care doctors not to claim the PCR, and they had to withdraw it. So, that there are interferences in that area is obvious and what you have to come here, to this Parliament, is to give answers and not to insult us or to disrespect us, Mr Feijóo, because it is not the country for that to be the example. [[Applause]] Of course, at the end of the week, PCRs did not fall into that measure and, if not, go to the data; 7,610 and 6,000 were made. So, Mr. Feijóo, don't come here alone and exclusively with your usual trecola, to try to disqualify people not to give the debates about politics, because, look, I don't miss your ability or your personal worth. I know that's what you want to do in this session. Of course, we're going to continue to report what's going on. Look, of course we've got a habit with the residences. Is it because we're not going to have a fever when a lot of people have died in our country and they're still the center of the contagion? And what is disgusting is, Mr. Feijóo, your intervention, because, look, our theme is to defend the dignity of the older people in this country and our theme is to explain why there is a group of 20,000 people absorbing nearly half of the deaths in our country. [[Applause]] And look, the whole thing, Mr. Feijóo, is that you say that the situation of Salvaterra's residence is the responsibility of the workers, that the fault of them being locked up is the responsibility of the workers. Do you know what they tell us in that writing - you seem to read only one part -? That fourteen days ago the board knew this and the communiqué that issued the Council yesterday said they were going to start acting. They'll start acting when it becomes public and not when they've met him. And see if there are precedents that this complaint does not appear a few days ago, in 2017 they have already reported to the Board of Galicia the problems that were in this residence. Tell us why they didn't act, Mr. Feijó. That's what you have to explain to us. But it is then that a report from the Board of Auditors came back to focus on the problem that existed in the senior residences, and its government, instead of acting, what it did was reduce the number of inspections. [[Applause]] You have a responsibility, Mr. Feijóo, and of course, what it cannot be to come here constantly elude you, because you can take more steps to prevent the coward from returning to residences. And what we're not going to accept is that if you tell us there's absolutely nothing to do. Look, you've also touched on the proposal that the Galician Nationalist Block made last week with all rigour, with all responsibility, because, look, at a time when they're putting increasingly alarming data on the table, the obligation of a government is to make the best decisions so that the effect on life and economy is as low as possible. Today we have a news in La Voz de Galicia: the economy suffers half with the hard model of restrictions for less time. And if you read this news, you'll see that what it tells us is that the Committee has been debating for a week now, by continuing with the model of soft restraints, held in time, or by opting for a tough model. They did it by analyzing, among other things, an Australian study that compared the economic costs that would have different levels of limitations and which demonstrates two things: the economy suffers half by imposing tough measures and the cost of living is also much better.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u25	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u26	Less cost of living and less cost of living. But you are set up in lies, manipulation and demagogy. And this, Mr Feijóo, that we were alerting was the same debate that the experts of this country were having. Stop attacking BNG...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u27	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u28	...and assumes their responsibilities, because their responsibility is to act as soon as possible. [[Applause]] We will continue to defend our views with all rigour. Today we moved him...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u29	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u30	...proposals, we've transferred to him initiatives that are important to get out of the crisis and we'll hold his hand again, and what we see, Mr. Feijóo, is that you're no longer giving us a hand in the store and the other one giving us a slap, is that the only thing you want to come here is to oppose the opposition. And this country...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u31	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u32	...he needs a government to lead him in the middle of a pandemic. Stand by and stop throwing balloons out, Mr. Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u33	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr. Caballero Miguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u34	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Feijóo, your presence today is lacking: there is no more transparency, no more information, no more strengthening of those lines in which there is weakness in the pursuit of the virus, in the care of residences or in the economic line to reactivate our country. You make an intervention in your line in which you excuse yourself in various matters. I, of course, have some of your questions I do refer to, as when you say that the truth has to defeat the lie. I think that's a maximum that I fully subscribe to, what happens is that, when you came to talk about that in Galicia there were 6,152 trackers, you made the biggest fake new that was introduced throughout this second wave in Galicia: a deception to our country, some numbers that do not exist, some data that even the advisor can refer. [[Applause]] No one believes in that word, and this is the source of so many problems, because, if there are no trackers and 2 out of every 3 infected by the coward, we don't know how to determine where the virus comes from, then you don't have the ability to track the traceability of the source and make all possible PCRs. So it's necessary to give a different answer. We need to make a bet for more trackers. If you were saying in this Parliament that you didn't know what the definition was, lexilian needs to be, but you're putting all health professionals tracking the virus. Two out of three infected with the virus have the origin of that virus -- which is uncontrast -- in Galicia, and the doctors tell it, the Carlos III Institute. You, who refers so much to scientific and clinical components, say to me, why does Galicia have the worst trace data on the virus in any autonomous community, with 62% of those infected with which the source is not detected? It is now being checked out in a concrete way. Look, the CRP debate is a debate that may have a lot of prisms, but I think there's a clear question: if there's a ability to CRP, the Government of the Union has to get it not to take a step back. If you can be making 8,500 PCRs on a daily basis, it's compromised here today, in the Galician Parliament, that throughout the second wave of the vault there will be more and more, but never less, because when there are 60 restricted municipalities, it's key to looking for where the virus is and why it exists. They can make everything available to the system to track the virus and stop denying that primary care doctors can also make calls to make PCR to those positive contacts, which you denied. I think we need to take those measures. It is today, Mr Feijóo, to consider here, in the Galician Parliament, in its next appearance — whether it is in 15 days or a month — a transparent status on the number of trackers, an information that complements everything we don't know and, in addition, an action plan by the Galician Union to strengthen the system of tracking the virus, and to do so, in addition, with a commitment that the number of PCRs will always increase and never go backwards. If you have the ability to make PCRs and there are so many thousands of people with the virus, you have to do the PCRs, because it's the best way to isolate, to avoid infections, to put a line of action as positive as possible. And of course we know what those responsible say because of course we talk to them. And of course we know everything you're saying. But we ask him, Mr. Feijóo, that you don't cheat, because, look, this was the board poster: "against the flu, we have vaccine." [[Mr. Knight Miguez shows in his hand the advertising cartel against the flu of Galician Union.]] And this was the reality, the reality of the Feijóo board, which announced vaccines for all, but which put the vaccine on people who didn't have priority to put it because it wasn't at risk, and people who were old, besides, who want to put their vaccine on them by dating them in months, from month to month, until December. [[Mr. Knight Miguez shows in the other hand a photograph.]] In Galicia there are thousands who know. Their fake news can't with the reality of a country that knows they've reached the health centers and that there were no such vaccines and that there's problems even with vaccines available for children and children. And I also wanted to tell you, Mr. Feijóo, that in this proposal action must be taken: for the greatest crisis, extraordinary expenditure, and in the line of economic action is without direction. When the Government of the Union sets out a law of reactivation to solve the biggest economic crisis in our country, it's saying they have no guidance or proposal. And when you tell me that some of the experts who are on the Committee are from our organization, of course, yes, of course, President Laxe, friend and companion, is also in that commission as a symptom that the PSdEG wants to cooperate and that he is regularly cooperating with these issues. By the way, they haven't told you about the 108 projects that you presented. You tell the truth, the 108 projects do not even recognize us even the experts who are advising the Reactivation Commission. Do not deceive this Parliament, Mr Feijóo. [[Applause]] That's the reality because these 108 projects are the obscurantism of their policies, and we don't know if there's interest behind them in the country or there's a caciquism with nepotism, with hidden strategies from where they want to go the public funds. And that's not good because the European Union is going to tell you, Mr. Feijóo, that you can't get projects out of the joke because you tell a gentleman, they're going to demand agreements, and there won't be any funding for anything that lifts your hand. The funding will look for the best projects...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u35	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u36	...and for better projects, you have to contrast them. There's the reactivation. Finished, Mr. Feijóo, telling you one more question. You escape your responsibilities as you can, but today there is no host in Galicia who is receiving direct help after you have decreed their closure, not one! And you say they've been negotiating for 15 days, that they've been... you've spent a lot of time dealing with the Government of Spain, announcing that you didn't want the curfew, and the councillor saying that you're going to rise on November 9th...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u37	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u38	...in part of Galicia the curfew at night. It's in The Voice of Galicia, published in the newspaper, everybody sees. There's a sample of his improvisation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u40	Government Galicia, get to work and stop coming to Parliament to escape, because it has a tender hand and it will continue to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u41	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u42	...even though his intervention was not up to what the circumstances of the country require.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. Knight. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] You have the floor, on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Mr. Puy Fraga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Pontón, I believe that when one contradicts you in a political debate, and even more so when contradiction is with data, that's not to be lacking in respect; it's not to be lacking in respect of either the Block or to be lacking in respect of you. I believe that we should all respect the data and build the debate on it and, of course, if we respect the data, we respect the truth, and from there we can build a debate. Not like what you do, which comes here and says the president's speech is summed up in what lie, because the president has brought a lot of data. The thing is, maybe you don't like the data if it doesn't match your speech, but that doesn't mean, of course, you miss it. [[Applause]] Of course, I didn't appreciate triumphalism either in the president's speech, but rather the willingness to persevere in well done work, which is different, and even to correct the eyves that are in the work done, because many of the eyvas have to do with the knowledge that we have about the behavior of the virus. Triumphalism was what the president of the Government of Spain did -- that you didn't hear him say anything -- when he said in the summer that we had already conquered the virus and that we were all ready to get out of drinks and enjoy the summer. That was triumphalism. You said the president was hiding. It turns out that the President is hiding in Parliament and in the media. Man, I don't know how a democratic society works, but when a person answers to the media, that they can ask questions without any filter, all they want, and when he comes to the House so that you ask him the questions they want, it's a rare way to hide. I see it really little hidden. Another thing is that then you don't agree with what he says or understand that, perhaps, they're asking too many appearances because they're already asking for every fifteen days or a month and it won't be that he comes every fifteen days and wins the debate the president, because in the end, that's the impression he gives. Mr. Knight, you said the appearance was in nothing. At least it agreed that he referred to the truth, so we agree -- I just said so also in relation to Mrs. Pontón -- The truth is that you are underestimating the ability of the Board to do analysis and test, first of the PCRs, because there is no lack of the PCRs, and second of all, if you don't realize that I mentioned Mr. Illa, who came to praise how the laboratory at the Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital is working because he has an innovative, effective and fast method of case detection. We are honest with the truth and we recognize that, in relation to the tests, Junta is not only doing what all the communities do, but is actually innovating, and that the socialist minister has come to recognize the laboratory of Cunqueiro, that hospital that you didn't want or open because it was private and that is working very well. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the general situation depends - obviously, to react to the crisis - on the previous capacity; we saw it yesterday in relation to the ceiling, we see it with the economic capacity of the various sectors and we see it also in relation to health. In the economic field, we are trying to help all sectors. They haven't been mentioned here, for example, the aid that the primary sector is having. Even the Autonomous Organization put Galicia as an example of the help being given to them. We are negotiating a great work from the vice president first and the employment adviser to realise how we can make the aid to the hospitality really complement those that receive other administrations, such as the State, which is also having employment support plans, which we applaud. Of course, it depends on the previous capacity, on the present capacity, where it's very important to raise awareness of society that, while science does not progress, we're going to have a problem with the virus. And it also depends on the present capacity of stability. I, in fact, after listening to you these days, one asking for the complete closure for fifteen days and the other saying that you should go with caution and with weight, for I am glad that there is a government, first, that supports all the decisions that are made because you have internal cohesion and, in addition, that you do so in relation to what the experts say. And finally, the future. The future is really going to depend a lot on the resources we know how to use well -- this is almost not spoken today -- Of the 108 projects we'll finally see how many go ahead. What we're interested in is that distribution is rational, by competition with demographic or per capita income factors, and that it takes into account the situation of the industrial energy transition of each autonomous community with the objective of being able to get out of the pandemic as best possible. These days it's hard to be optimistic. Even this weekend a philosopher characterized by his optimism about the human ability to solve his problems, Steven Pinker, said we should all learn how to treat pandemics as a constant threat, as part of a living organism that is vulnerable to pathogens. The history of humanity has been plagued by pandemics. We should treat them as other threats, such as fire. Before the fires there were many deaths, and all countries now have good firefighting services in cities and everywhere. Well, we must think that this will last, that we must prepare for pandemics and learn lessons for life, because we all have a lot to learn. I trust the opposition will give us things that can improve the plans and actions of the Union. But, at the entrance, of course, we support the Union and support its President. The performance may be perceptible, but certainly, it's learning from the experience, it's applying the learning and it's applying what experts do. Of course, we maintain the optimism that we can get out of this and that we can have a good life, greet friends, kiss the people we want, participate in meetings with friends and work or study without any complications. I therefore encourage the President of the Government to continue working on this line. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Puy Fraga. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The President of the Council of Galicia, Mr. Núñez Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Pontón, if you look at my intervention, you won't find a paragraph inviting triumphalism. First, because we've been running a pandemic for seven consecutive months, and secondly because we've been making decisions in managing that pandemic for seven consecutive months. Obviously, you don't have to make any decisions and so you probably don't know the difficulty, the extent and the content of the most difficult management to those who are subjected to health authorities all over the world. What's not reasonable, Mrs. Pontón, is to come here to do demagogy. If it's too bad, I'm sorry. But you accused me that this intervention was ready, making less PCR on the weekend, and that's not just demagogy, Mrs. Pontón, that's a sham. You'll understand that the plots about reducing the diagnosis of the sick so a politician can have a more comfortable appearance are something I can't accept. You say here you don't come to attack. Is there a conspiracy superior to this one? Would it seem normal to you that I came here to tell you the things that you moved me during your appearance? And unfortunately, the replica continues, because it's still manipulating. He says that it's obvious that we ask less PCR because we don't let them become PCRs, trying to mix one thing this weekend, when primary works only at points of continuous attention. But what are we left with? For several weeks we have been listening to the primary being subjected to enormous bureaucratic tension and it turns out that when it is clear that primary has the world's right to ask for a PCR for a patient -- when it has symptomatology, of course -- and when it's the only responsibility to follow up that patient, when the patient is positive, of course -- through prevention services, the Trace Center, the services of territorial heads and military trackers, it gives them continuous follow-up to asymptomatic patients and therefore patients who do not have confirmation of the virus -- that seems to you to be an interest in concealing the number of PCRs in Galicia. That again becomes an improper demagogy of a Member or a Member of this House. And, as you will understand, it won't silence me, Mrs. Ponton; it won't silence me because we've been long, many days, many nights and those we need to try to stop and try to have some less bad epidemiological data than the rest of the country. To say that I blamed the workers of Salvaterra's residence again and to say that this is not to do demagogy... but what did I say about Salvaterra's workers? If what I just said was that, of course, it will be inspected, that of course an information will be opened and that of course the same workers you're trying to manipulate say that since the Galician Union took control of residence if you're doing good health care. So, what do you think, that I'm just going to shut up because yes, because I'm going to shut up, because I'm the president of the board, and what can you say about being responsible for nationalism in Galicia? No, I'm not going to shut up. The third manipulation in its turn of claim is that it takes a data published today by the Galician Voice of experts on the fact that in the European economy it is best to do surgery, from an economic point of view, for less time than to take milder measures for longer, and it tries to mix that up with the topic of Carballino and the hospitality... but can you manipulate it in such an appropriate way? You come with a general confinement and then you make me the like of the Committee of Experts, that you had a more or less intense proposal for the Carballino model or the Ourense model... but what does that have to do with the general confinement? If we did that to avoid general confinement! But do you think — I insist — that those sitting on this bench are stupid? You think we don't understand what you're trying to intoxicate? Of course you do, Mrs. Pontón, and if you intoxicate, you know that as president of the Greeks I'm going to report it. And if you contribute, as president of the Greeks I have to value it. If I don't value your contributions, it's a problem of mine, it's wrong; now, don't count on me to shut up when you try to poison the Galician Health Service, the Health Adviser, the health officials and the entire Government of Galicia. Don't try to intoxicate on this. [[Applause]] You try to say that if the representative of the Committee of Experts came here to say that the measures were taken by the Government. Of course! Shouldn't the orders not be signed by the Health Counsellor and the decrees not be signed by me? Of course, and we all assume absolutely all the responsibilities. Note if it is independent that it does not belong to any organization, it only presides over the Galician Emergency and Emergency Society. And say what you want in the commission, so far we could get there! Don't you understand that there are people who don't have to be militant about anything but the truth and their independent, technical and health-care policy? Of course he says that. And he also said there was a clinical committee that worked, and we didn't know him in Spain. He also said that all the proposals of the Clinical Committee were being mostly referred to by the Government. We assume our responsibility, but don't come here to say and intoxicate about the Clinical Committee. Mrs. Pontón, I don't know exactly what you want. I don't know. You and your political strategy and there you and your conscience! I, of course, come here to say that we are in a very complex situation, that the Government will continue to make decisions, that we will continue to work with the only objective of correcting and that we have no commitment to anyone or anything. If you want to intoxicate, I'll answer you, and if you want to contribute, I'll thank you. I repeat that if I don't accept your proposals, I'm wrong; we'll look at them, of course, but if you want me to look at the general confinement of the population of Greece, say so at once. I do not turn to the Reactivation Committee at the first meeting to say that what needs to be done is the general confinement of the people of Greece and when there is a plenary session in Parliament in Galicia, you are silent on this proposal. What would happen if we paid attention to him? That we would probably be marked today by confining the entire population of Galicia. And what happens if we don't listen to him? So we don't try to look after the Greeks. Look, I think these things are serious enough not to go along with this little thing, this tiny policy. I cannot accept you, Mrs. Pontón, that you question whether there is a political instruction to do less PCR. It's against my biography and my way of thinking and, in addition, any basic moral principle. Yes, yes, I know you think we don't have principles. [[Murmurs.]] This is the country's nationalism and therefore this nationalism will never rule in the country. [[Mr. President, Núñez Feijóo, pointed his finger at the G.P. seats of the Galego Nationalist Block.]] [[Applause]] Look, it would be good to agree with us: complaints to the Prosecutor's Office, 18 - Archived 11 and open 7 -; inspections carried out by the Health Council, 300 in residences of the third age; 38 sanctioning proceedings; number of persons deceased in Galicia in relation to the number of residence squares, 2.17%, and in Spain more than twice; number of persons deceased in the major countries of the world, in some of them double that in Galicia, such as Canada, Norway, Israel, Ireland, and also 7 or 8 points above Galicia, France, Belgium and even the average of Spain, who refuse to give the number of deceased in residences in Spain. Mr. Caballero, do you defend that, that we don't know the number of deceased in residences in Spain when autonomous communities have to give it to the Ministry of Health every day? Why don't you publish that statistic, which isn't a number, are families who have the right to know it? Why do you hide the number of total deaths by the pandemic in Spain and why do you change your criteria continuously? As for the patient I hide, if the patient dies with coward, then it is a death by coward; if the patient entered the ICU with coward, before expiring, in the last test, he had no coward, then he is not a patient killed by coward. Is that your morale? That's how we have to fill out the data, Mr. Knight. And here comes to talk about what we must publish, know and realize Galicia. I tell Galicia that the data that compels us to cover are those, but I object to that sort of completely inappropriate technique. [[Applause]] Look, now you're going to say that I'm committed to making more PCR. But if Spain's first health service in making the autocovid was this, the Greek; in Vigo, precisely! If we have the best microbiology services in the country, equipped with absolutely new and innovative machines! If we were the first in the Spanish PCR pool and the first in Spain's saliva tests! The only problem we have is that of the reagents, that we don't have enough reagents to do the saliva tests as we would like. In the PCR, Your Honor, we don't count the massive crows. Why? Because the Ministry of Health doesn't care. And why don't you count? Why is the mass attendance not computed to all the educational staff, the massive staff - three people - the health staff, the massive servant - every fifteen days - the workers of the elderly residences? Why don't you count? You, who asks me: more PCR, more antigen tests, more double band tests and more rapid tests or double band antigens, quick tests...? You're not interested in that. What is the Socialist Party's concrete proposal? Ah!, PCR? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Perfect! So, the 300,000 antigen tests we're going to do, they don't count. Trailers? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We'll go back to the trackers again, as if there was a problem here. But, look, if we are the autonomous community with less incidence of ICU beds - the second - and with less incidence of hospital beds! Do you think the tracking system is working wrong? So, where does it work?, where are the hospitals collapsed? What are you trying to do? Avoid boarding school. And how do they avoid it? Tracking, diagnosing, isolating, currenting, and where the tracking system works. Less telemedicine. That's a sentence that's going to happen to the history of hospital management. "less telemedicine," but if the world goes around, gentlemen! The world's going that way! [[Applause]] Behind telemedicine there's a doctor, there's a medical staff constantly and continuously. Look, we have territorial headsets, preventive medical services, tracking personnel, military personnel, contact tracking center, more than seventy people, and the number of people we have in primary -- doctors and nurses -- is more than 5,600. And you think this whole group has nothing to do with tracking? More than seven hundred people directly devote one hundred percent of their time or most of their time to tracking, and the rest, the health care staff -- of course, the primary care staff -- so do. That's what Andalusia or Valencia says, which, by the way, we've been trying to figure out where the tracking numbers are, because it depends on how I ask the question. But, look, in Galicia, Andalusia and the Valencian Community, we all recognize that primary care doctors of course have the capacity to do this, but there are more than seven hundred people in addition who devote themselves to this in full-time, in full-time, with continuous overtime. If you go to the delegation's territorial heads and tell them that this job is smaller, I'll tell you that there are people who are working on Saturdays and Sundays, for seven months in a row. So, how come we don't track down, when it turns out we have the least bad data in the whole country? Like we don't do tests, if you don't mind talking about tests? Now you think the PCRs and nothing else, but it turns out that of the rest, nothing. But, look, the PCR protocol is a protocol approved in April, and it turns out you're finding out in November. They never discussed from April to November of the protocols of the PCR and the role of primary care, and now it turns out that they are. Why? Because there's no way to look as we can, but why, we don't add up. Why is your goal exclusively to stay and question? Look, there's a protocol for making PCRs in symptomatics and asymptomatics, there's a protocol for close contacts, there's a protocol for quarantines... there's a protocol for everything, and that protocol is published, it's known by scientific societies and it's endorsed by microbiologists. It's not valued by you, nor by you, nor by me. PCR is done when microbiologists consider that it must be done, and if there's no PCR, there's a quick test, and if there's no quick test, there's a double-band antigen test, and if not, and that whole diagnostic system is perfecting every week, as a week, we're having information about possible vaccines. But I don't know exactly what you're trying to do, I honestly say, because I don't know, I don't know... you take two papers here and talk about the truth and talk about the flu, when we just believe there's 35% more people vaccinated with the flu. What are you criticizing, that we're vaccinating people who aren't at risk? Is that your criticism? So, what are we criticized for, vaccinating 35% more? Are we criticized for having the largest influenza vaccination campaign in the country's health history? We bought 45% more influenza vaccines -- that ends the campaign on December 30 -- and I just moved that the data is that for people over 65 and for minors we have enough doses in stock. And you come here with the two papers speaking in the name of the truth, in the name of rigor and trying to transfer a feeling that we're not vaccinating against the flu, when you've never been vaccinated more against the flu than now. Just like in the hostel. He says we don't have any help at the hostel. We have between 2,200 and 7000 euros, every guest knows. We held three or four meetings with them, the first vice president of the Government and the employment advisor. Do you know what you don't have any help for the inn? The central government limits the aid to the lodgers. Yes. The Government excludes the extraordinary allowance for cessation of activity, requiring the activity to be suspended in the case of restaurants or cafés that carry home food. Yes, Your Honor, and we include them. Oh, that's a minor matter. [[Murmurs.]] Is that a minor issue? [[Murmurs.]] You think if a restaurant gives home food, it has no right to state aid, and yet that's a minor matter. It seems absolutely surprising to us. It turns out that by trying to work at least to find some income, that's penalized, and what we have to do is do nothing. If you don't do anything, you have more help, and if you work a little, you have less help. The state demands a drop in the minimum income of 75%, and in Galicia we demand a drop in the income of 50%. And there's no help for the hostel? Indeed, he was wrong about the Government, Mr. Caballero, there is no help in the hospitality in the central government. [[Applause]] And now he's trying to sow doubts about the reconstruction projects. But do we really deserve this? It's 108 of the reconstruction projects I've noted, and it says you can hide friendship or nepotism. And he says, "Of course! Well, the 108 projects are in Moncloa's palace; all of them, there they are. Oh! aren't they? Well, I didn't know you were wearing the Moncloa palace record, but at last... I didn't know he worked in the palace register, but it gives me the feeling that you're not even informed about the most elementary. [[Murmurs.]] Not only are they, but we've engaged a meeting with the gentleman who leads the Moncloa office. [[Laughter]] There's an office in Moncloa that talks about what can be done and what can't be done, what it's financed and what it's not financed. [[Laughter]] We had a meeting with him and, well, he left her with no effect a few days ago, imagine the rigor. But I'm sure you, who has Moncloa's record, can get that interview. [[Laughter]] The 108 projects, Mr. Knight, are notified to the Moncloa office. There are very large companies in Galicia that have been working on these projects. There's more than a billion euros in health investments. Don't you know them? But isn't there a reconstruction commission where these kinds of things will be discussed? Exactly, Your Honor, what are we accused of? Is it to fulfil the commitments with the Central Government, which asked the autonomous communities from October on to take them further to the Reconstruction Commission, to make an expert committee for contrasting them, to present each and every one of the projects once the European Fund's distribution regulation is approved and we know the criteria of the Central Government? [[Laughter]] That's exactly what we're doing, and we're also accused of it. So, as I understand that he is accused of everything here, because look, we will continue to work, telling Parliament, realizing the Greeks, coming after the clinical committees, reporting on every action we have, but the truth and the truth is that this Parliament does not seem to be at the time of the country. Well, there you go! The Journal of Sessions shall take into account the data, proposals, concretions and contents of interventions. We are 5.7% of the population of Spain. If the pandemic data corresponded to the percentage of the population, we would have half -- half! -- hospitalized, half of the ICU income, half of the deceased and half of the infected who would theoretically correspond to that population. And you don't think there's any success in handling the vault. The facts are from the Greeks, Your Honor, the facts are from the families, the workers, the companies, the health care professionals... yes, there's a less bad management than the rest of the country, for now, because maybe next month I can't say it. I come here to come and explain what the situation is in my country, and within a month, of course, there will be another situation, which I don't know if it will be better or worse; of course, we're working to make it better. I'm sorry in advance that within a month you'll follow this system of saying that when a lot of PCRs are made, and the percentage is less because we're interested. Are we interested that the CRPs in Ourense are lowering the positive? Was everything ready for me to show up today? What about Carballin'? You think this is serious? Do you think it's serious to tell a president of an autonomous community that he's able to handle the PCR number and manipulate the PCR data to say...? Well, let's not go that way. I'm holding them back, I think it's coming. They will never regret helping during the pandemic. I'm convinced that both of you are sorry to propose to make the election in October. Too bad there were witnesses! [[Murmurs.]] Because if Mr. Caballero comes to say that, in fact, politics is not to confuse the truth with the lie... the problem is that there are people who don't even know what the truth is or what the lie is. [[Laughter]] Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u48	Thank you, President. Attendee's finished here. Now we continue with the sixth point of the agenda, non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. At the initiative of Mr Ovidio Rodeiro Tato and six other Members, on the position of the Galician Parliament in relation to the reduction, by the Ministry of Education, by Royal Decree Law 31/2020, of the level and requirements for a student to approve, promote or be entitled in the course 2020-2021 irrespective of the number of suspended subjects
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u49	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the proposal, Mr. Rodeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning to all of you. It wasn't through the sectoral meetings with the autonomous communities, nor did it after the strategic meetings and in common with the representatives of the educational community. No, no, no, no. It was through the media when the education community in Galicia and the rest of the state learned about the content of Royal Decree Law 31/2020, urgent measures in the field of non-university education, which was approved by the Council of Ministers of September 29. Part of the content of this decree, in particular, the Ministry of Education's claim to allow the student to pass a course and to be entitled without limit to suspended matters was not addressed at the last sectoral conference on education, where they dealt with and agreed on other matters actually raised in this royal decree. This measure, which will affect the 2020-2021 course, must be seen as an institutional disloyalty and an imposition of the ministry directed by Isabel Celaá, since, as I said, it was not previously treated not only at the sectoral conference with autonomous communities but also with trade unions or with professional or educational organizations. Galicia has always maintained an institutional respect and loyalty that is essential for education to function even in time of pandemic and even if it has to endure the banners or lack of leadership by the ministry, in the words of the vice president of that same government, which was what said that lack of leadership. He said we have maintained a loyalty that, among other decisions, has made us support the flexibility in the student's approval with the schools closed at the end of the course 2019-2020, because we value exceptional situations at exceptional times, even if we were not in accordance with the legal way of doing so, since the ministry has amended the Education Act in force, which is a higher standard, through an order — which, as we all know, is of lower rank — and that at this time the Prosecutor's Office has opened a process against this decision. But now we can't afford to communicate with mill wheels and pass without any kind of consultation and information a real decree that approves to pass course and even holds without limit of suspension, i.e. approval of a general approval; hence it's a pedagogical aberration in every rule. Or, as he also called it, some means of communication, that the ministry with this measure legalizes ignorance. In addition to criticisms of this royal decree made by different autonomous communities, also teachers and unions, who are upset with this measure to understand that it damages the quality of education throughout the state. Rather, what we think this policy is looking for is to make education statistics, such as, for example, the number of repeaters or the number of ESO or Bachelor's degree; that is, to twist the statistic so that it reflects a situation of teaching at the state level that is not real. But the worst part is that it will directly harm the student and cause inequality. The Galician People's Parliamentary Group is opposed to a measure enabled by the Royal Decree because it converts an exceptionally agreed timely situation before the appearance of the cod into a unilateral decision for the 2020-2021 course, which is already under way and which has the corresponding protocols of action. Far from facilitating work during 2020-2021, the Ministry of Education's decision to lower the level and requirements for approval and promotion at nothing helps to improve education. On the contrary, it means a decrease in the quality of education and the role of the education system as a generator of equal opportunities. This way of proceeding on the part of the Government of the State, ignoring organic legislation and concealing information in such an important decision for the entire educational community, disparaging education, the work of teachers, students and their families, and going against the culture of effort and attacking fairness in this decision to lower the criteria for evaluation, promotion and qualification, allowing any student or student to pass course regardless of the number of suspended students. Moreover, this measure — as it has already denounced the Council of Galicia and as other autonomous communities, even governed by the Socialist Party itself, such as Aragon or Navarre — can generate inequalities between students depending on their place of residence, and also creates legal insecurity and normative confusion. Galicia has been launching measures and plans that promote motivation for learning and provide a reinforcement to the most vulnerable student, measures that have facilitated, as everyone knows, a very important drop of more than ten points in the dropout rate, from 25.8% to 12.6% in 2009 in the last course. That is why the People's Group believes that it is necessary to pronounce this chamber, because it is at risk the future of students, who are — and it is worth remembering — the future of Galicia and Spain. As we can all agree, the quality of education cannot be equaled to the level below, but rather by promoting the improvement and modernization of the education system of the Spanish ensemble and enabling each autonomous community to improve its system to add rather than remain. Real decrees like this make Spain more and more distant from the educational levels of the countries around us. The Ministry of Education confuses the necessary support for students in times of pandemic with a drop in the level of education, as it denounces the practice of the entire educational community. Minister Celá uses to lower the level instead of articulating educational reinforcements, as is being done through various programmes such as program contracts or the Arc program. In Galicia, and in the exercise of its own powers, Junta is working to alleviate the effects that it would have for the student of Greek the application of this royal decree at the foot of the letter. In this sense, Cunta de Galicia has just created a working group made up of teachers and inspectors with the aim of developing standards for the development of the general adoption decree to reduce their weaknesses, preserving the quality of the education system and promoting the culture of effort; standards that will be materialized through instructions from the advice that will address the criteria for promoting, titrating and evaluating the performance of the student, taking into account the circumstances that exist at each time, such as long-term quarantines. The development of these standards aims to preserve the quality and fairness of the Welsh educational system, correcting the obvious weaknesses of the decree. Because the German student cannot be at risk of discrimination against the student from other autonomous communities because of the leftover of the central government, which, in addition to not exercising its powers, is promoting great differences between the different autonomous communities. Therefore, since the People's Parliament Group we have tabled the proposal which you all have, where it is proposed that the Galician Parliament agree against the fact that through the real decree that ignores the legislation provided for in the organic legislation of education and that the Ministry of Education has not been agreed with the autonomous communities, the Ministry of Education decides to lower the level and the requirements for a student to approve, promote or be entitled in the course 2020-2021 regardless of the number of suspended subjects, since it is understood that this measure is not in line with the current situation of the education system and that it also abolishes the role of education as a generator of equal opportunities between students. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. Roder. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Socialists' Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvarez Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a previous reflection on the repetition of the course in Spain. Today this is going to be a lot of teaching graphics and I'm not going to be less. Mr Roderio, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, Signors of the Galician Nationalist Block and the Galician Socialist Party, this graph reflects the rate of repetition in the European Union of pupils in primary and secondary education. [[Mr. Álvarez Martínez shows a document.]] The first line corresponds to Luxembourg and then we are seized of the Kingdom of Spain. Below, with 0.2% in primary and 0.3% in secondary repeaters, is that idyllic mirror where we all look at what Finland is. And this is the reality. This should call for a joint reflection, obviously in a forum that transcends the competences of an autonomous Parliament, because duality, Mr Rodeiro, between the possibility of promotion and the strategy of repetition has given rise to extensive debates in educational literature about which alternative is more favourable for the student. The advocates of repetition argue that the promotion of low-performance students is to confront them with a situation they are not prepared for, they consider that repetition can be a stimulus to favor the willingness to study or increase their effort and even make them more aware of their responsibility in their academic performance. However, there is strong empirical evidence that questions the beneficial effects of the repetition strategy, which can give rise not only to problems of self-esteem or adaptation but also to lower rates of class attendance and, in the long term, to higher rates of drop-out and also lower wages. And why do I say that? Because you argue that, far from facilitating work during 2020-2021, the Ministry of Education's decision to lower the level and requirements for approval and promotion at nothing helps to improve education. In your opinion, it means a decrease in the quality of education and the role of the education system as a generator of equal opportunities. Finally, it would be desirable to have a more robust argument than the one they expose in their initiative, which is synthesized in that the lowering of the criteria of promotion and qualification, allowing any student or student to pass course regardless of the number of suspensions, will be at the expense of educational quality. And that's false, because the royal decree doesn't make that. Abolition of the final evaluation of the primary and compulsory secondary education phase. Mr. Wheel, you know perfectly well that those final stage assessments have never been applied. How do they argue that the removal of these evaluations is detrimental? So, until this moment, what's going on? They support this argument by saying that Galicia has been putting in place measures and plans for motivation for learning and that provide a reinforcement to the most vulnerable student, measures that have facilitated the reduction of more than ten points of the drop-out rate, going through in 2009 -- they put on their initiative -- of 21.6 this year -- it's a pernicious permutation, it's a fallasal, i.e. a write mistake, it's 12.6, as you said. And I want to draw attention to this graph number 2. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, Signors of the Galego Nationalist Block and the Galician Socialist Party, is the drop-out rate; the top line is the state and the bottom line is the Galician. [[Mr. Álvarez Martínez shows a document.]] What's going on? For it simply happens that in 2009, despite the tremendous failure that took place in the education system during the two-party government, Galicia was already 5.1 points below the state average. But it also happens that at the moment the difference between Galicia and Spain is inferior. And that, if we twist the statistics, as we've seen throughout the entire morning, could give rise to wrong conclusions. Look, the downward trend in dropout rates is good news for everyone; it's good news for Spain, it's good news for Navarre, for Asturias, for Andalusia, for all autonomous communities, but it's not an exclusive phenomenon of Galicia. If you tell me there's a divergence between Galician trends and the rest of Spain, I'd say, well, Galicia is doing it ostensibly better than the rest of the state, but it turns out it's not the case. They're going to allow me, simply in a sense of teaching, to show you how statistics are handled and what conclusions can be reached. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, Signors of the Galician Nationalist Block, Signors of the Galician Socialist Party, these two graphs, which are practically identical, have a statistical correlation of almost 1, which means that there is a priori, if we don't analyze it well, a causal correlation between one thing and another. [[Mr. Álvarez Martínez shows a document.]] And it's not the same as there's a correlation with causality. And why? Because one of the graphs reflects the average consumption of cheese in the United States per person and the number of people who strangle with the sheets while they sleep. And this is how statistics are handled. [[Applause]] It's sad but it's real, it's real. [[Murmurs.]] And what's sad too? That you in your initiative speak of what the royal decree says. And it is very sad, Mr. Rodeiro, that when this parliamentary group brought an initiative in the X legislature to ban the distribution of the pamphlets from Hazte Hear on sexual diversity, you voted that you did not, because they trusted the professionalism of teachers to prevent such distribution from taking place. But, caramba!, they don't trust teachers' professionalism to decide whether or not a student can promote. We must have some consistency, Mr. Roder. [[Applause]] What about this? What's going on with this is that you're on a crusade, I don't know if with the cross of Malta or without the cross of Malta on the cover, in any case a crusade against all the regulations coming from the state. And what remains to be seen in this parliament in the process of changing the organic law of education, what will come, what we will see and what we will hear! Because what does the royal decree say? The real decree says that, in order to facilitate the development of teaching programming and its adaptation to the circumstances arising from decisions on the presence of students in the centres, the evaluable learning standards will have a guiding character. That the centres, according to their educational administrations, may exceptionally change the promotion criteria in all compulsory primary and secondary education courses, as well as in those corresponding to the promotion of the second bachelor's degree. The repetition, Mr. Rodeiro, you know that in all the educational legislation it is always intended as an exceptional, unordinary measure, although unfortunately the statistics I showed at the beginning of my intervention show that this repetition is not so extraordinary. Mr. Roder, could all that rigour you are demanding at the moment not have demanded it as well with regard to obtaining certain master's degrees by some leader of the People's Party without any attendance or presentation of jobs, no evaluation or anything at all? Why do they demand so much rigour in cases and are so lax in others? Look, during the months that the suspended educational activity has been, the Education Council has adopted regulations — which I do not have time to read — of the same content as the actual law you are now questioning. Because it was said at that time, both April 27, April 28, and May 28, that instructions were given, that the curricula and programs of activities to be carried out during the third quarter would take special account of the circumstances and be flexible and would adapt to help as much as possible the student can reach it. That's it, that's it? Is a general approval in deferral or what strategy is this? This is the regulations of the council, Mr. Rodeiro. It was also established that the Bachelor's degree centres for holders could exceptionally facilitate the criteria, considering not the elimination of the number of approved subjects but that the student had sufficiently acquired the general objectives of the stage that would allow him to continue his academic itinerary. So you trusted the teachers to decide whether a student was promoting or entitled; not now, because the law is state. Mr. Rodeiro, it is a real shame that we do not have a serious debate on education in this parliament, a monograph, but, with initiatives like these, we are obviously not going anywhere. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u53	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u54	President, ladies and gentlemen, I must admit that, at first glance, I was free from this initiative, because I came to it with positive expectations. And so I understand at the first moment because I wanted to understand that, in some way, after this initiative, a certain reflection, a debate on education, on evaluation, on the tools and instruments that we always need, also in these times — these things of being neophyte perhaps — but the fact is that, as soon as we are going to delve into the initiative, the evidence and reality of the true objective of this initiative is to be relentless. It's an initiative that has nothing to do with education, it's an initiative that has nothing to do with evaluation, that has nothing to do with the management and reality of the centers we're living in, and the only objective behind this initiative is to use the difficulties and the dramatic situation that the student of Greece is experiencing, once again, like that rattle axe, that pum pum pum of the systematic and permanent People's Party with the Government of Madrid. [[Applause]] And it is false, Mr. Roderio, gentlemen of the People's Party, it is false what is established on this very initiative. It's false that any student will pass no matter the number of suspensions, it's false what you say from the general approval. It is as simple as reading Article 5(a) of that Decree 31/2020. Because what is established there is that teachers, in exceptional circumstances, in which they understand that there are students who have worked, who have learned, but that the pandemic has prevented them from doing so in all their dimensions and showing these learnings, may have tools that do not double penalty these students: that they do not penalize them for not having received learning at the time and that they are not penalized by making them lose a year. And you say this decree destabilizes education and teachers. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, those who are disparaging teachers are you when they don't consider them capable of establishing which students can promote in this context and which they do not. So, I think, moving forward a little bit in this LNP, there are things that are also powerfully calling attention. He says it counts on the rejection of the unions. I want to tell you, Mr. Rodeiro, that welcome is your sensitivity to the criticisms of the union representatives of this country. [[Applause]] But another question: do you know what is the distribution of the Teaching Staff Board in this country, Mr. Rodeiro? Do you know what the balance of forces is? 142 representatives, of which 114 are in favour of this measure. More than 80% of the professor represented in these organizations is a supporter of this measure. And you say the unions don't support it. In any case, as I believe that the data are important, it has been done that it has an inquiry prepared by the majority union of this country to over 6,000 teachers — by the way, a pity that you, so much call this dialogue with the educational community, have not done it—that offers the following results: 95% of the professor considers that the role of the Education Council was insufficient; 66% of the professor, who received no guidance of any kind; and 79.8% of the professor considers that in this case the best criterion is the promotion of the course, where exceptions have to be set by the teaching team, exactly as set out in that Royal Decree 31/2020. [[Applause]] And I have an idea that Mr Álvarez put forward, that the problem of this country is not that students have to repeat more, but that the problem, which is being said in the 2019 report on the state of the education system — and that it also repeats itself by OECD countries — is that — if you do — the average repeaters at the age of 15 in OECD countries is 12%; in the case of the Spanish State is 30.8% at the age of 15. But if we go to the German case, let's see that we are also above the state average, so that we have about 10% of the average repeater and 12.5% of the repeater in 1st of the ESO compared to 9.2% of the average state. And in the face of this situation, what you are proposing to our educational community is that they have to repeat more, when it is just the opposite of what is being done throughout the European Community, in all countries that have advanced education systems. But I believe that the exaggeration of the manipulation of this initiative, Mr. Rodeiro, is when you talk about equal opportunities. You, since your government — data from 2009 to today — have increased by 6.35 % to the private education teacher, from 7,886 to 8,174; since your government, you have increased by 8.4% to the private education teacher, from 5,283 to 5,727; and since your government has reduced by 4.25 % to public education teacher, from 31,375 to 31,041. [[Applause]] And you, with this paperboard, come to talk about equal opportunities; you, who continue to hire and enter schools that teach by sex, come to talk about equal opportunities; you, who have tightened the requirements in an obscene way to access university scholarships, speak about equal opportunities; you, who do not miss the opportunity to attack the Greek language, when we have to listen to Mr. Feijó's embarrassing statements, although the reality is that 74% of the children up to 14 years old in this country speak only Spanish and only 14% in that stage speaks German always, we have to hear that the People's Party here proposes itself as an equal opportunity. It's an absolute obscenity, gentlemen of the People's Party. But it's funny that they also come to talk about the tax speech; it's tax because it hasn't been dealt with by trade union organizations. And of course, with educational agents, Mr. Rodeiro, where did you manage the ratio throughout this pandemic?, with what agents?, with what trade union organizations? The semi-presence, the teacher, the face-to-face teaching plan, the special educational needs protocol? And of course, you haven't negotiated anything at all. [[Applause]] But when it comes to throwing balloons out, they think not to negotiate is an imposition. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that's what my old people said about "I told the pot to the scissors." But they also come to talk about that, of course, this decree — which Mr Álvarez put forward as well — suppresses the final assessment of ESO and primary. That was done in 2016, with a government of the People's Party. Royal Decree 5/2016 of 9 December, as set out in Article 2.3(a) "Assessment shall not have academic effects." (b) "It shall have a purely sampling and diagnostic purpose character." Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you are the ones who set out these measures and now, with a PNL presented by the People's Party, they come to criticize those measures that you have implemented. Indeed, what political schizophrenia!, it is worthy of immediate treatment, gentlemen of the People's Party. [[Applause]] I wanted to finish with three very small reflections. The first is the relationship between the levels of repetition we have in this country and the rates of early school dropout, which, as Mr Álvarez pointed out very well, is very different from the failure of school, as you know, Mr Rodeiro. These rates of temporary school dropout are between 18 and 24 years of age. If we have more students who repeat and who should be in the secondary education system until the 17th and we extend it until the 19-21s, logically that reality also has an impact on the dropout rate, in addition to many others — a much more complex debate, I agree — such as the labour market, etc. So, I think it's all right, we can't save our efforts — it's over, it's over, president — in these areas, we can't save our efforts in the fight against school dropout, school failure, keep improving results. Just to nuance also in some statements made with PISA and that, of course, is a reference that we must bear in mind, that we must always keep in mind, but simply point out that countries that produce better results in PISA are Macao, Singapore, Hong Kong, Korea, etc. I don't know if there's no debate on whether that's the model of society we want for the Greeks and the Greeks. So, I'm done, just telling you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party: this is something very serious, education requires everyone's effort, you stop that pim pam pum permanent, you stop using education as a scrambled tool, for party interests, and you get to work, because that's what the educational community of all of us today demands more than ever. In that respect, don't doubt that you'll have all our support. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u55	Thank you, Mr. Lourenzo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Group author of the non-law proposal, Mr. Rodeiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Álvarez, you've spoken here about a lot of things. He spoke above all of setting up a serious debate and even introduced certain theses as well. You could also talk about certain master plagiarisms, but I don't think it's appropriate to confuse the debate with this issue at all. You've also talked about PISA data. Well, I want to tell you too -- and I think we should all be very proud -- that the student from Greece is the one who is most aware of equality between men and women to continue fighting against gender violence -- you said -- because I don't know what happened in 2009. So trust that the Welsh education system is giving good results. And also in all the parameters of the PISA Galicia Report it is up to any autonomous community or better, both in scientific competences and in mathematical competences as well as in the latest data we've just known, of globality, about other cultures. So, I think, Mr. Lourenzo, as bad as you describe it — that, by the way, very little spoke of this LNP, he spoke more matters — I think our education is not so bad, especially in what you constantly criticize, the teacher. I want to remind you that the teacher's templates have been increased by 7.3%. [[Murmurs.]] Of course, I know that data to you because sometimes you don't like it, because it's easier to come up with a data-free account, and with data-free accounts it's very easy to merge, but when you're dealing with the data, it's actually that story that goes down. And, moreover, Galicia is placed — as has been said here on several occasions — in one of the first autonomous communities in the best student-teacher ratio, with that 7.3% increase in the staff and with 2,300 teachers. I'm saying that because you were talking about the way the education system was. But look, I think in this debate we are not, or at least in this debate I think someone is wrong: President Sánchez himself, when he tells us in the presentation of the plan of recovery and transformation of the resilience of the Spanish economy that he promised to take advantage of the pandemic to build a more digital or innovative economy; or the minister is wrong, when he says that this real decree allows students to hold several suspended subjects. Or something or something. Or do you think Google or any high-tech company hires a young man or a girl who has suspended several subjects for a title, as much as they use that title, if they have suspended materials? The companies they're looking for are the real economy. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Businesses are looking for the real economy, which requires workers with real knowledge and not workers with a title in their hands, which is useless to them. And this royal decree opens the door to an education that is the antithesis of effort, labor and constancy. And I say I try because the culture of effort is very important. [[Applause]] All countries, the most advanced, the most innovative, the most competitive and the most transformer, are committed to strengthening the culture of effort. And these values are not believed in this royal decree. Imagine what you can think of or what a teacher who works with his students knows they're doing what they're all going to do or they're all going to be able to take a degree. This is not prestigious the teacher's figure. Imagine the morals of a student who strives, who wants to learn, who wants to improve every day in the class, when his peers, do what they do, they're going to have the same treatment as him. We have to prioritize the evaluation, not go through with suspensions, and we need a continuous, open, flexible and individualised evaluation. This royal decree opens the door to injustice, to teachers, to students and families, to injustice for all, except for the ministry, which will be able to fill the chest with its statistics of approved and titled, at least a few children, until the PISA Report gives it to the rifles with the outcome they are provoking. And it's true: students have to help them, with educational reinforcements, by helping them where they need it, but not by lowering their level. So this royal decree anticipates a law. It gives us the feeling that they're coming to impose a sectarian and ideological educational model. So we don't agree, and this group will always be against educational means like the ones they proposed in this royal decree. And, in addition, the Galician Union is working so that you can establish a framework and instructions that improve this situation so you don't break up with the role of the education system as a generator of equal opportunities and improve its quality. Therefore, rejection of this matter...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u57	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u58	...is because we are faced with a decision of great transcendence that despises education, teachers, families, that goes against the culture of effort. And so we have to keep working so that Galicia continues to have one of the state's most equitable and inclusive educational systems and not be affected by state legislation that defies this education. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. Roder. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantinos and two other Members, on the position that the Government must defend before the Central Government and the European institutions in relation to the distribution of European funds to deal with the crisis of coward 19
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u60	Amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the People's Parliamentary Group have been tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u61	To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all, or almost good afternoon. We believe from the BNG that we do not escape anyone who is at an absolutely exceptional moment, with an unprecedented economic, social and health crisis and therefore we need to take advantage of all possible tools to get out ahead and position Galicia in what is already a new world, with new problems and that needs new answers. And in this context, the result of our country's debate on European funds will not be any less. We know that these funds will not automatically be the solution and the miracle for all our problems, because, in fact, for the immediate ones it will be something that comes late, but it's obvious that, if we're still while others are moving, it will mean that our country is certainly far behind at a point without return, and we know that Galicia can't afford any more stories of lost opportunities. We think it's fundamental at this time to work to achieve a fair distribution, because for economic reactivation it's essential the role of institutions and public resources, something that doesn't even question the parents of austerity anymore. From the IMF to Mr Feijóo, they don't even adhere to these these theses, and of course, in a context where we don't know how long the pandemic will last or how big we're going to face, every euro is important, every euro counts. We also understand that it is fundamental to bet on a country strategy right now to achieve the fate of these resources, because we need profound changes in this country's movement at the economic and social level, in our economic and productive model, in order to be able to have a fair society and to have well-being and quality of life, and also because we know, if we look at our history, the negative consequences of the bad decisions of the past. We have examples in our country of European funds that have not been used properly, we have examples of the consequences of the bad execution that leads to the loss of significant millions of euros, we also have the consequences of a model that has abandoned public investment in R & D+i, we have the certification that this makes us weaker, or we have examples of how the abandonment of public participation in the economy leaves in our country examples of strategic energy or aluminium companies that are going to lower the Persian for nothing. That economic model of neoliberalism and dependence is today a problem added to the pandemic, and to change it we need -- yet -- a fair distribution and correct use of these funds. So since the BNG, we are deeply concerned about what we are living on the part of the People's Party: paralysis, improvisation and darkness; paralysis, improvisation and darkness that we can summarize in the chronology of the infamy that we have seen these months. Just two months ago, at the investment session, Mr President mentioned the European funds to say that with the prospect that there was now, we could lose up to 40% of the so-called traditional funds. To be so important, we still don't have on the table a single proposal from the Galician Council so that Galician doesn't lose those traditional funds. But it's not more encouraging than the new funds. On 6 October, the People's Party issued a proposal by the BNG in this Parliament to open a presentation and put itself in this debate and to talk about criteria, projects and objectives. October 8 has already started with their digit dance: October 8, 1,700 jobs through an investment of 1,300 million euros, million per job; October 16, 3,000 million jobs, and 18,000 jobs, with 7 projects; but October 22 we were already in 108 projects, 9,500 million euros, after ridicule that we should aspire to, at least, put as a starting point the percentage that would correspond to us by population. The truth is that I, every time I open the paper and hear that ball of growing numbers on the part of the People's Party, what I remember is that image of the Donal duck with the money machine. It seems that this is the People's Party's method of opting for European funds. And, we insist, from BNG, we have proposals on this, for example, a proposal for targets. We understand that Galicia should receive, at least, the count corresponding to the percentage per population, but with a plus for this fall in traditional funds and also for factors like our structural problems, and a count not less than 12,600 million euros. There is one member of the People's Party who, if he had taken a little more care of himself instead of being in the background, could understand the BNG proposal. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] It's a proposal for the debate, and how much more ruminant it is already much more than the German Government has done up to this moment, which has not even one on the table. Because, what does Galician Union do? In the face of political pressure from the opposition -- because there are other nations that are already putting debates on the table, because the state itself began to talk about this issue -- they created a Next Generation commission, which is basically the board of the board of the board with a platoon behind which puts "Next Generation"; that is the great proposal of the board of Galicia. [[Applause]] Then they tried to sell us the motorcycle that this House Reactivation Commission was going to have a big role. Even the president of Galician Union lied again this morning here and said that again and again; lies that are not supported. The second vice president, Mr. Conde, has already come to this committee, and the only thing he has done is read press notes; Mr. Corgos has come from the next generation commission, and he has done exactly the same. And do you know who came too? Independent experts from this country saying that it was indeed unthinkable that Parliament had no role. It is innocuous that Mr. President-in-Office of the Council of Galicia dares to come to this rostrum saying that this Parliament is not up to it. Who is not up to this Galician society and this Parliament is the People's Party, the Galician Union and the President of the Union. [[Applause]] It's a shame, and his lies don't cover up that this is a democratic attack. It is deeply anti-democratic what the People's Party is doing with the issue of European funds. Yesterday, more ads. Finally, in this country, you will know more about what these projects are going on outside this Parliament than this Parliament. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantiños shows news.]] You look in the mirror: they don't want Parliament's participation, they don't forward the documentation that is requested, they don't meet universities, they don't meet with technology centres in this country, and not even the ESC - Economic and Social Council - seems to have a mixed role. They meet with companies that you like, literally. Because we also talk to economic sectors in this country and businessmen who wonder what kind of criteria the president of the Galician Union chooses to decide who he is and who he does not. That's arbitrary, and what we propose is that there be equal opportunities to choose the best alternatives, with public planning, not for companies that decide the embraces of Feijóo, because in this country you have to have the same opportunities any small and medium-sized company or any small research centre as those projects selected by the Galician Union. [[Applause]] We must also have a debate about where we must walk. [[Murmurs.]] That's why today, by responsibility, this group brings this proposal, because it's important that we mark ourselves as targets, because it's also important that we defend territorialized management and because these funds can't be alibi for further recentralisation. We must avoid the centralization of resources from Madrid, but also the centralization of resources at the level of criteria that are not fair to our country, and let us set examples. The research centres, mostly, many of them, even though they have ramifications for the rest of the state, have their headquarters in Madrid; there is a certain effect that they also have a thirst for the innovative system of Madrid. Or let us put more examples: can we really, with the historical experience of this country, assume that geopolitics and political negotiation will not interfere the least in the distribution of European funds? We can go sector-to-sector and find examples, for example, the naval, with which Mr. President of Galicia recently met. We can remember what happened in this country when the decision on whether ships were made in Ferrol or Cádiz was taken from Madrid. I believe that some Member or Member of this House should have in mind that. We understand that Galicia has a great ability to compete, but it is also necessary to put objective criteria on the table, because we know what criteria the European Union has to share states, but we don't know the second part, and today the President of the Galician Union has come up with that, but he doesn't have a single proposal. Today from BNG we bring it to put it on the table. We have criteria that we understand are objective and that must be taken into account, because the demographic situation of this country cannot be obvious factors such as closing two thermal power stations at the time of these funds and addressing the energy transition, or something as obvious as aging and what that means. I insist, these are reasonable criteria and objectives that we can discuss, but we cannot follow this drift of concealment, arbitrariness and lack of planning, because it is neither democratic nor intelligent, and that's what we want to put on the table today. [[Applause]] Of course, we aspire to our country having something more than a conformist government, which seems to be the only thing that's waiting for bad decisions from within the scope of the state for us to have a little more than to kick, and while it doesn't seem to govern you or you're not aware that you rule a nation that has to decide what your future is and how you want to manage it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr. Francisco Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon now. In the face of this BNG initiative, the first issue that we have to highlight, basically, is the level of response that European institutions are giving right now in the face of a very serious and very deep, dramatic economic crisis, and that is affecting the whole of the states, the whole world, and especially Europe, here in Spain, and in particular the Autonomous Community of Galicia. A level of response, of course, that has nothing to do with the response the European institutions gave on their day in 2008 in respect of an absolutely different state-wide crisis, in the state as a whole, linked to the real estate sector, and then a crisis that was both public and financial in debt. It was an exit at that time based on an answer that sought the contraction of public spending, fiscal adjustment and, therefore, that caused in many countries inequality and injustice, especially here in Spain. The answer today is absolutely different, it's an answer based on expansive public spending policies. We congratulate ourselves on this kind of responses that have their translation into this kind of funds from the states that are at their disposal. It is therefore a key solidarity response that makes us understand that this Europe - this one - if possible, and we are pleased that Spain has contributed since the Government of the State to adopt an exit from this crisis in this sense. Of course, in view of the BNG initiative, finally, I think it is appropriate to think a little bit about what we're talking about. I think we all know this, we're talking about a huge amount of very important funds, a large amount of funds from which, as far as the Spanish State is concerned, it is perfectly beneficial, and which are established on the basis of criteria that benefit the whole of the economy, so that they allow it to be reactivated, that allow it to be stronger, and that they allow it to be oriental to transition objectives in the environment, and also in transformation in the digital field. And they're also looking for targets that have more horizontal components and affect the whole of the states; targets that have to do with climate change, with environmental issues and which are defined in the United Nations's sustainable development goals. I believe that the Spanish State has made good negotiations in relation to these funds in the field of European institutions. Of all the European Union funds that are at the disposal of the states, the Spanish State will receive 18.66 %, which is a good negotiation. I understand that the position of the State is perfectly defended, and in this sense I think it is appropriate to congratulate the Government of Mr Sánchez. Of course, at European level, it does not fall within the criteria that countries internally need to adopt to share these funds, leaving room for manoeuvre to the states in this regard, and, indeed, by guiding the exit and execution of these funds to criteria, which are, of course, already fixed - yes - and which are already unblocked between the Council in the European Union and Parliament itself. So they're perfectly defined targets, and that's where projects should be oriented in the state as a whole and also here in Galicia. Indeed, it is 750,000 million, of which 140 billion, hypothetically, would correspond to the Spanish State; and I say hypothetically because 70,000 million are subsidies, execution or direct assumption by the state as a whole. Seventy billion would be loans -- that there is still no clear effect that these are going to be received or applied for in that concept -- and they aim, through the mechanism of resilience and recovery of economic activity, to make a much stronger economy, to strengthen the economy from the point of view of social cohesion, to mitigate the impact that the pandemic is having on the Spanish state as a whole, also in Galicia, as a result of the coward and, of course, Oriental, as I said, those funds, to economic transformation linked to the ecological transition and digital transformation. In this management of funds in the field of the Spanish State, autonomous communities will participate. There has already been a conference of presidents where Galicia was represented through Mr. Núñez Feijóo and where it was agreed that 50% of the funds were executed by autonomous communities. It will be a sectoral conference of European funds in this direction and that is where we understand that Galicia must defend a country's position. Therefore, by collecting a little also what BNG kept in initiatives that were discussed in this plenary, we also called for this presentation within Parliament to set the political forces a country criterion and to defend the projects that must be prioritized for Galicia at that sectoral conference. Obviously, we are going to be there and that is our position, because that is where the criteria of the autonomous communities will be defended. The question is what position does the Union have in this regard, what position does the Union have in relation to the European funds, these funds, the funds I cover. Obviously, here - it has been said - Mr. Núñez Feijóo today at the same time in attendance repeated again that Galicia has forwarded 108 projects to the Government. Some of them, indeed, you, Mrs. Presas, made reference because they go out in the media, and the last one that came out yesterday was a project linked to the automobile: 1.3 billion to create 900 jobs. Clearly, Mr. Feijóo said that the Greeks knew how to multiply, add and divide, and that's true. If we multiply or divide the billions, 1.3 billion, among 900 jobs, it turns out that more than EUR 1,200,000 jobs, which is not bad, but I think projects have to have more dimension, more capacity to develop economic activity and, of course, more impact on employment. So, and in this sense, we appeal to the Council of Galicia, we appeal to Mr Feijóo - which has been done today in the debate, in appearance - to transfer to the Parliament of Galicia from which are the projects sent in that Excel to Madrid. And we say it basically because the PSdeG, and this Member, picks up the more or less textual demonstrations that in the Economic Reactivation Commission did one of the specialists that appeared there, Mr Santiago Lago Peñas, where he said textually that Parliament has the right to know the projects which, in this case, are referred to the assumption of European funds. We are in that position, we want to know what kind of projects, what is the model of projects, what is the strategy used by the Galician Board to define the projects or to select them, who is behind them and which public or private companies, if so, are those that promote these types of projects. Of course, we are far from the opacity and far from the silence that keeps Galician Union in this sense. It is true - the rapporteur for this initiative said - that Galicia is very much playing with these funds, and it is true because Galicia, unfortunately, over the past few years, has received European funds, many of them badly spent and many of them badly executed or unexecuted. You were talking about R+D+i-related funds, 25% running in 2014-2018. So, finally, in relation to the BNG initiative and setting the position of the Socialist Party, the PSdEG, we can understand that you from nationalism, from the BNG, aspire to EUR 12.600 million, but I think this is not going to do this, this is not going to assign the projects on the basis of criteria that are purely autonomic funding or linked to a discussion framework in the field of autonomic finance, this is going to present projects with quality, capable of assuming funds. So in that field, finally, 12,600 million is almost 18% of the 70,000 million grants, and I think that's far above what Galicia represents in the economy of the Spanish package, which I think is 6%. So I appeal to realism. I'm not afraid that in that presentation, if we finally come together, we can be among the political forces as a whole, proposing or calling for Galicia to be strengthened at that sectoral conference with quality projects capable of assuming the public funds that are available, but we have to be, of course, realistic and not fall into illusionism that, in my judgment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u65	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u66	...represents this initiative. So, our amendment is put forward, it goes a bit in the sense that BNG was not a long way ago and also picks up part of the popular party's approach to the position that Galicia should have in relation to European funds. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u67	Thank you, Mr. Francisco Rivera. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u68	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Presas, the truth is that this criticism that the Board has not done anything to her is that we cannot accept it because, firstly, it is not true and, secondly, it is unfair not only to the Greek Government, but to the members of that committee of experts who have been working on what the tractor projects should be to achieve the economic recovery of the crisis at this time. So you're not only opposed to the Galician Union, but to the best economic experts in our community, who have defined the line of work since April 15, while you were thinking about the elections and we were fighting against the pandemic to define which way it should be. His criticism, therefore, is unfair, unfair to the German Government and unfair to the most notable economic experts in Galicia. There you are! Look, Mr BNG, I think there is only one question on which we agree with you in this debate. We agree with you at the bottom, and we don't trust the socialist government. That's the summary of your initiative and also of the amendment we propose from the People's Party in Galicia. We must defend Galicia, we must ensure that we receive the European funds we need to boost the social and economic recovery of our country. We must ensure that the Socialist Government does not use our resources, the resources corresponding to Galicia, as a currency of exchange for its political favors, such as trying to achieve the approval of the general budgets of the State. We are also concerned about what Mr. Gonzalo Caballero said this morning from this rostrum, because the reality is that he has questioned that there was enough money for all the projects he manages and pushes the Unity of Galicia. He slipped into his intervention whether there would be any money for so much. We're worried about that. And so I think we should be united in that concern and claim. Look, the Government of Pedro Sánchez has dropped Galicia at every opportunity he's had over the past few months. He refused to transfer the pending EVI months of 2017, 204 million euros; he refused to transfer Galicia the 170 million euros for the good fiscal performance of the years 2017 and 2018; he only sent the Greeks 4,5% of the first funds I receive, when Galicia would correspond to more than six and a half percent. How can we trust the socialist government and the distribution it can make of European funds? Of course not, of course we have reason to be suspicious of the distribution that the Socialist Government can make. How are we going to trust Pedro Sánchez if he has just presented the state's worst general budgets for our community in the last fifteen years? How are we going to trust the Government of Pedro Sánchez if he went up the investment in almost all autonomous communities, even in some 50%, like Catalonia, and he drops to Galicia by 11%? How are we going to trust the Government of Pedro Sánchez if it devotes 6.5% of the territorialized investment to Galicia — the lowest they remember — when Rajoy's government in the best years spent more than 13% and you seemed little to them? How are we going to trust the Government of Pedro Sánchez if investment in his accounts goes down in dependence, if he forgets the demographic challenge, he deliberately abandons Xacobeo, and, yes, gives money for the whims of his independent partners? How are we going to trust Pedro Sánchez if he has just presented unbalanced, unreal and irresponsible budgets? I thank the BNG for rectification, because the first public release of the BNG was to congratulate the general budgets of the state. Then, seeing the social response in our community, it changed position and accompanied the People's Party in its criticism of the accounts. How are we going to trust Pedro Sánchez? [[Applause]] We certainly don't trust each other. Look, maybe the difference between Galician PP and BNG is that we don't have a conscience. You know why? Because we did not make president to Pedro Sánchez, you, yes; and we, of course, did not keep the Government with our vote; we did not, and you, yes. We were not deceived by that pact of shame, that covenant that Anna and Adriana signed, those twenty years of political experience for a great deal of agreement, translated into what? Nothing, absolutely nothing. Do you know why you really served the pact of Ana and Adriana? Well, to get the Galego Nationalist Block vice-president of the Coruña Deputy -- deputy in which they don't believe -- or to have the City Hall of Lugo. But how did Galicia benefit from the pact of Ana and Adriana? Nothing, that's the reality. Everyone with their conscience! The important thing, ladies and gentlemen, is that in the field of European funds we agree on the essential and we share a common objective. And that's why we tabled an amendment that picks up the fundamentals of the BNG proposal, providing something of order, something of concision — if I may —. From the People's Group we want to propose this text that we also present as an initiative for the next plenary session with the vocation that we send to the Government of Spain a unanimous and clear message, and that Galicia will not be allowed to take the hair on the part of the Socialist Government once again. Galicia must receive the appropriate help. That is our initiative, moved today in the form of an amendment and presented for its debate at the next plenary session. [[Applause]] To achieve this we defend clear criteria of distribution, marked by transparency and objectivity; criteria based on three principles that we collect in our amendment: Firstly, the principle of subsidiarity and multilevel governance. It is essential that autonomous communities participate in the definition of the criteria for distribution and, in any event, know them, because we do not know what criteria Pedro Sánchez wants to apply. This isn't science fiction, PSOE gentlemen, it's what other countries like Germany are doing. It is to be welcomed that, in order to share territorialized funds, the opinion of the Territories should be taken into account. We want to be heard, and that's what we claim in the first of our principles. Secondly, the principle of competitive competition, which dispels any risk, any doubt of discretion or arbitraryness on the part of the Government of Pedro Sánchez. It's a sort of anti-Sánchez insurance or anti-Sánchez insurance. That's what you, gentlemen of the BNG, know what's going to happen. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They know that Pedro Sánchez, his government, will be sising money that corresponds to Galicia to give them to other autonomous communities. They know. And if you don't, you want to be complicit in that behavior. Of course, it doesn't count on us for that task. Serious criteria, transparent criteria and objective and objective criteria must be established which allow for the presentation of viable projects that are valued for their quality; in that we agree with what Mr. Gonzalo Caballero said. That's right, Gonzalo Caballero said there won't be any money for everyone. Does the PSdEG-PSOE know anything more than us? Do you know that Galicia won't give you what Galicia owes you? At least from Mr. Gonzalo Caballero's statements in this rostrum, there will be no money for that. That's what you said in this House. We defend serious, transparent, objective, objective criteria, without meeting political criteria or the timely needs of the socialist Government to remain in power, as is happening with the general budgets of the state. Thirdly, the principle of social and territorial cohesion, because we must combine the competitive competition that we defend with a map of aid consistent with the reality of different territories, so that distribution takes into account factors such as the per capita income level, the percentage of population living in rural areas, the demographic challenge, which today forgets the Socialist Party, or the industrial transition. We defend criteria that we certainly do not invent; these are recommendations of the European Commission itself. These are the criteria that we defend for Galicia, ensuring that funds affect structural inequalities and encourage less dynamic territories to recover the destruction of their productive tissue. In short, ladies and gentlemen, what we propose is a serious and objective criterion of distribution, which respects the autonomous communities, which are the ones who best know their needs, and which is fair and avoid the discretion which the Government of Pedro Sánchez has used to us, that government that you support, support and maintain. We, of course, are not willing to do that. As for the amendment of the PSdEG-PSOE, it is clear that you act in this House as ambassadors of Pedro Sánchez in Galicia and not as representatives of the Greeks, who voted for them; little by little, they were voted upon, but they are to whom you owe. And forget it every day, because when they have to choose between Galicia or their party, they always choose their party, and so they go. As you can see, soon we'll be back to this House, PSdeG-PSOE gentlemen. Little favor do Galicia think that when we have to choose between Galicia and its party, they always choose their party and always betray their community. You complain that you don't know the projects. Look, the projects are -- the president said before -- where they have to be, in the Moncloa Palace, presented for their validation. We are waiting for less sectarianism on the part of PSOE and that the PSdEG-PSOE will once be on Galicia's side, when they have to choose. Why don't you know the specific projects? Do you know the people of some autonomous community? No, no, no, no. Do you know the people of some country? No, no, no, no. You know why? Because there's confidentiality clauses, because there's intellectual property and right to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u69	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u70	...industrial property, which, therefore, governments, the serious ones, the responsible ones, must respect. I understand that for the PSOE the other people's rules are not valid. Look, we defend in our amendment to establish objective criteria that defend Galicia's arbitrariness and sectarianism of the Socialist Party. The BNG elects him among this sectarianism that always punishes Galicia and keeps Pedro Sánchez in the Government or defends Galicia. They decide at once to think about Galicia and less...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u71	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u72	...in their acronyms.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u73	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u74	It's good enough of the socialist government's budget traps...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u75	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u76	...in our country. They represent the Greeks, who...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u77	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u78	...they're the ones who voted for them. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u79	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u80	Thank you, President. I want to thank the socialist spokesman for his tone, even though we have obvious discrepancies. For example, with regard to the European Union's level of response, we are less euphoric, because the European Parliament itself aspired to 2 billion, and the amount is much lower, even below the expected fall in gross domestic product. We have also discussed the small letter, the conditionality of the European semesters that will assume these funds, which are no less a gift. In any case, the question that we consider most relevant is that element of the presentation. We made that proposal on October 6 in this House. The amendments made by the Socialist Party and the People's Party were intended to resend this to the Reactivation Commission. Clearly, that was not the alternative, we had already warned him, and it would seem good to return to the question of the presentation. We intend to add that amendment as an addition because we are certainly not prepared to give up the rest of the content we propose. What I really have to say is that I think it's bad news is that the Socialist Party in Galicia seems like it would be enough for Galicia to get 6%. I think that's bad news. We are committed to trying not to fall into illusionism than we were accused of, but I aspire to the Socialist Party - at least the Greek - in this battle it does not fall into centralism in which it seems that the central government is falling again. [[Applause]] As far as Mr Tellado is concerned, I think you have a frustration: that he wanted to be a Member of the Congress of Members and Members to begin today's budget debate, and then he brought the argument to the Greek Parliament. He told me he couldn't say he didn't do anything. You're right, I'm going to say another thing: Junta says she's done a lot, but nobody knows in this country that she's done or stopped doing, because they don't forward documentation to this Parliament. What the economic experts have said in that committee is that Parliament had to play a role and that, even though there are questionable elements of confidentiality - indeed, we are not going to have to know every point and how of each project - there are 108 of which we have neither the holder nor the holder. [[Applause]] I mean, some of us have a headline, but we don't even have that, Mr. Tellado. That, if it's not a trapcheo, what is it, Mr. Tellado? [[Applause]] Of course, that question doesn't convince us, because one thing is the confidentiality of certain information and another is the clandestineness, which is where you are installed, Mr. Tellado. [[Applause]] I'm surprised you're here to say that we agree on the essentials without getting colored. If you want us to agree, we are willing to resume that question of the presentation, but, of course, you came with the same speech as Mr. Conde, who also asked us for unity. You've got a Lexical Disruption there. I recommend you look at the dictionary. One thing is unity and another is blind faith. And of course, what you can't ask is that this country's opposition has blind faith in what you do, Mr. Tellado. About your amendment, before I drift with other questions, I want to tell you that you propose three generalities here. If they are to be brought to the next plenary session, we will debate them, but, of course, who puts objective and concrete criteria on the table, up to ten, we are the Nationalist Block of Wales. Of course, you were saying one thing, which is that they propose the same criteria as the European Union for the distribution of states. But that would be harmful to Galicia, because you think, for example, of the gross domestic product per capita. We understand that the weight of this indicator must actually be higher than that of the European Union, because if the Spanish State literally applied the same criteria, taking into account demographic differences, the funds would concentrate on four communities: in Andalusia, Valencia, Catalonia and Madrid; they would absorb more than 50% of the resources. We also understand that the demographic situation must be taken into account, and we propose two concrete elements to compensate for the situation in our country. With regard to elements such as the rate of unemployment, one cannot take account of the abstract without supplementing, because we, as a country that we suffer from an enormous process of emigration of active population, because logically we would lose ourselves in that balance. And like this, many other issues: the weight of rural territory, the dispersion of the population or aging, which also means a budgetary effort, at least, in the country where we aspire to live, in which everyone has to be entitled to public health, with this attention to pluripathological patients. We understand that everyone must also have a right to a place in a public residence and that it must also put elements on the table such as the closure of thermals or the low rate of replacement of health personnel. In short, of course, you say it is unfair to say that the Board does nothing, but it is that, once again, we have come to this Parliament with all modesty and with all the constructive spirit to do its work, Mr Tellado, because we do not know what criteria it handles the Board of Galicia, and we have a proposal that is objective, that is clear and that is questionable, because the main problem we have in this issue is that you do not want to debate, you want to give three rounds of press a week and that the rest of us applaud your ears, when we do not know what your intentions are. [[Applause]] And I set examples, of course. I'd come out here about the ads...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u81	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u82	...and finished with yesterday's automobile. Well, actually, like this country needs two laboratories in that sector, or three, or five, or whatever, but there's got to be a debate, not like in the last ten years, which we don't know where each euro has been invested in the automotive sector because there's no transparency in the aid sector, because we haven't been audited, for example, there's going to be a debate on which is the component of the territorial equilibrium, because we actually have a very powerful automotive pole, but we also have districts with closed industrial polygons...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u83	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u84	...we have comarcas in which it's going to close...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u86	...a thermal power plant... we'll have to have a country view...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u87	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u88	...and to debate deeply what model we want...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u89	Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u90	...because, of course, the economic model of the last ten years has failed. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u91	Thank you, your time is over now, Mrs. Presas. Does the PP amendment understand that you accept it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u92	We accept as an addition the amendment of the Socialist Group, and in respect of the amendment of the People's Party, we understand that ours is much more complete; therefore we do not accept it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u93	Okay, I got it all the other way, but well... [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Encarnation Amigo Díaz and six other Members, on the elaboration by the Galician Union, within the framework of the future Greek oncology plan, a strategy of personalized medicine and advanced cellular therapy, as well as the launch in Galicia of a CAR-T therapy centre
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u94	There's an amendment from the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u95	To formulate the non-law proposition has the floor to Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u96	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. We know that cancer is a serious disease, but the fact is that today the prospect of healing this pathology that many lives have taken has changed dramatically. It's getting closer that all cancer patients can cure or at least turn their process into a chronic pathology, reaching old age with good quality of life. In recent years we have seen how even in very serious cases life expectancy has tripled. In some guys like breast cancer, life expectancy has improved very spectacularly, and today it's very little to take it that there's not a single case incurable. In the early 1980s, diagnosed women with breast cancer had a chance to be free of relapse at five years after the diagnosis in 70%; at present, that figure is nearly 90%. As far as diagnosis is concerned with more advanced and less invasive techniques, it has been improved by low-invasive tests such as biological fluid analysis. Now, in addition, the liquid biopsy, which is a cancer detector through the blood, has been added. This biopsy gives more information and in less time. As far as treatment is concerned, so far the most known treatments are three basic types: The surgeon, which consists of an operation to remove the tumor containing malignant cells. Radiotherapy, which is one of the most commonly used methods when it comes to eliminating fundamentally solid tumors, both the external modality, the most known one, which is through linear accelerators that use high-energy waves to destroy the tumor, such as the internal modality, also called brachytherapy, where a radioactive source is placed within the tumor itself or very near for a short session or a few days. These are two methods that have gained precision and reduced their side effects in recent years. They're localized and very little invasive techniques, because they treat very localized areas, but unfortunately they're not applicable to all types of cancer, such as oncohematologics, or they can attack cells that might have escaped the tumor to form future metastases. And thirdly, there's chemotherapy, that is, treatment with different toxic chemicals for cancer cells. The major problem with chemotherapy is, above all, its side effects, since the drugs used in most cases are also toxic to healthy cells. However, also in drug therapy, the trend is going to specialize more and more. There is already a new line of drugs directed against molecules present in certain tumors, such as breast, stomach, melanoma, lung and lymphoma tumors. These are much more specific therapies with less toxic effects, such as monoclonal antibodies and drugs that inhibit the formation of blood vessels in the tumor and therefore prevent it from feeding. We're going to personalized medicine, but there's also one before and after cancer. In recent years we have seen a major change in the treatment of oncohematological tumors with the onset of directed therapies. The effectiveness of many treatments has improved, as well as their safety. And, no doubt, the great advance in which more hopes are being put is that of cellular immunotherapy as a substitute for chemotherapy, which is our own defenses that destroy the malignant cells, because often they use methods to pass unnoticed. The so-called T cell therapy with CAR, which comes from English Chimeric Antigen Receiver — receptor of chemical antigens — aims to achieve, through genetic modification techniques, that T cells in the patient's immune system, T lymphocytes, are re-educated and have the ability to selectively recognize and destroy tumour cells. CAR-T cells gave very surprising results in patients who were refractory to any other treatment. 90% respond early, and reach the total remission between 50% and 80% of the patients treated, for whom there was no other therapeutic alternative, and in most cases the survival prognosis did not exceed six months. These CAR-T drugs are listed within the so-called advanced therapy drugs. According to the origin of its production, it is used to differentiate between industrial CAR-T and academic CAR-T. The two industrial therapies so far authorised in Europe correspond to multinational companies in the pharmaceutical sector Novartis and Gilead. According to the approach plan for advanced therapies in the National Health System, CAR-T medicines from the Ministry of Health and Consumption can be administered through a network of fifteen reference centers designated in the National Health System — none of them currently in Galicia. At the beginning of 2020, the Galician Union announced that it was beginning its work to develop a new oncology plan, in the wake of advances in cancer treatment that led to the creation in 2017 of the Galician Pediatric Oncology Unit, which united the resources of the integrated organizational structures of Vigo, Santiago de Compostela and La Coruña. This unit served as an example to plot a plan that would speed up the route of medical visits and accelerate the diagnosis and initiation of treatment. In the course of the autonomous elections of the year 2020, the People's Party included the development of this projected plan in its electoral program, but it wanted to do so by realizing some of the improvements that this plan should introduce. In particular, reference was made to the following commitment: "Advanced therapies will be included by launching a CAR-T therapy centre in Galicia and developing a strategy of genematic custom medicine and advanced cellular therapy so that the Greeks can benefit from this kind of treatment in a closer way." As I started by saying at the beginning of my intervention, so-called CAR-T therapy is the one with which the patient's immune system is intended to recover the ability to selectively recognize and destroy tumor cells, which are part of immunotherapy, a form of cancer treatment that is intended to complement the classic radiation therapy and chemotherapy treatments in the future. And having a CAR-T center in Galicia would mean providing Galicia with the possibility of providing in our own territory the medicines indicated for these treatments, developing clinical trials for those who have no alternative in industrial drugs and being able to treat patients in a very fragile state without having to leave our community. The design of alternative CAD-T treatments is being initiated or planned in different centers of the National Health System. To set an example of the centres in which it is very advanced, it must be said that the Clinic Hospital, Barcelona Hospital, Santa Creu i Sant Pau Hospital and the University of Peace Hospital are some of these centers. Galicia has state-of-the-art hospitals with services that are national references, and yet at present we do not have in our autonomous community of any functioning, or in the process of creation, centres for the manufacture of CAR-T drugs itself. Progress in this area, where Sergas has taken a few steps, will require an important organizational and economic effort. This is a top-level political bet the People's Group believes that the Union must take place under a firm parliamentary mandate. And, ladies and gentlemen, from the People's Parliament, we have tabled the following non-legislative proposal in full: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to develop a strategy of personalized medicine and advanced cellular therapy within the framework of its future Greek Oncology Plan and launch a CAR-T therapy centre in Galicia." Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Friend. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u98	Thank you, President. Good morning, or noon now. Before I started, I wanted to take advantage to congratulate José Manuel Castro Tubío, a Greek researcher on cancer. I read these days that was recently awarded by the Spanish Cancer Research Association as Spain's best new researcher. So, I think it's a good achievement of the Welsh research and of the Welsh researchers that you're right to mention. It is difficult to make a debate without thinking that any progress needed, any progress possible, about the fight against cancer, needs the greatest possible support and also a restful, sympathetic and resourceful work. We believe that the importance of these therapies is obvious and, therefore, we will be in favour of the initiative. We've tabled an amendment that we're going to explain, and that we expect it to be taken into account. But there are two questions we wanted to raise, not doubted, but if some mention, or some input, that we think are important given that we can debate this issue today. First of all, and specifically on the subject we are dealing with, the amendment is directed — an amendment to add — to feed or support the initiative that all intensity is little to strengthen the research and development of CAR-T-type therapies in Galicia. Why the amendment? We believe that we must strengthen our system in Galicia — the public system — so that we can develop the whole process here. If in the morning or in "x" time the development of these works, because it makes it the center of Greece that, in collaboration with the Barcelona Clinic, can fully develop the process, we should be sure that we have the funding, resources or means needed for this work to be developed here too, because we will have more advantage in order to do so. And besides, because, even though it is essential to count — it is undeniable and it is not possible to get out of this — with the work that some pharmacists do, I believe that reality and that, in the last few months especially — highlights the value of public research, of public work on new therapies. Why? I was talking to the pontoon about some pharmaceutical entities that are working very specifically on these therapies. We celebrate that work, but it's true that there are some pharmaceuticals that have just had some worrying cases in some environments. I was talking about Novartis' case. Novartis has quite worrying cases in some countries about the treatments and their relationship to power, and about the management of the drugs he participates in. There are serious cases of corruption, not many years ago, in Greece; or some pretty hard case, like, for example, what you've been dealing with in the state of Colombia for refusing or for reporting that the State declared any drugs of national interest because they had no money to pay for it. The pharmacist preferred to report it instead of making it easier for the medicine to get into circulation. We work, or in this case we work, in the debate on drugs against cancer, precisely. We therefore understand the investment of pharmaceuticals, but we believe that if the elements are so decisive — and in this case sleep — we should protect investment through the public system. And that's why this is our initiative, which defends that we have this work from those therapies based on the public system. It must not be exclusive, but rather grounded and based on the public system so as not to be at the expense that other entities — in this case of multinational pharmaceuticals — can then have us stuck in what is the execution of therapies like this, which can undoubtedly be a breakthrough in the fight against cancer, which, as all experts have been warning, we are near — we have not yet arrived, but we are near — to get it to become more a chronic disease than a disease with the levels of mortality that have been developed so far. On that side is the explanation of our amendment. Secondly, on the question of oncology in general — and since, in addition to this, a more global analysis of oncology therapies has been presented here — we have some issues that are quite worrying about. Oncology is probably a delicate debate — probably not, it is a delicate debate. He has behind him a kind of treatment or care for patients who often need very specific attention. However, experts point out that recently, during these months of pandemics, cancer-affected people have or suffer a double pandemic. First, we all suffer from health, but it's also a problem with the possible reduction of diagnoses, because the system's resources are more focused on the fight against cowardice and we're losing the care of some other patients, non-covid patients. What does this detect? As some experts point out, the reduction, compared with previous years, of the number of cases detected in certain types of cancer is not easily explained for any reason other than that of less diagnosis because it is answered less and because resources are more dedicated to another issue. They are talking about the specialists of the loss of opportunities; that is, the inability to detect it in time, enough time, so that therapies and treatment against cancer — which depends to a very high extent on the ability to detect it in time — are being worked at the speed that is necessary. And that's why we're worried too, because we have problems with treating non-covid patients. And this is an area, oncology, where the system may probably have a problem if we don't devote enough resources. So also, when we bring here the need to strengthen resources, we're talking about that, in the face of the pandemic, we often need to double the treatment system, the care system, the patients. This is also what we're talking about. The diversion of resources to care for cowardly means losing to address other issues, issues that can often be derived, can be delayed, as in the case of minor surgeries or non-priority, non-emergency assistance. But in the case of oncology, it doesn't happen too much, but specialists point out that it does. In fact, some data that can be interpreted positively is necessary, at least, to analyze them. For example, I put a data on what we recognize that we don't have a capacity to define what includes the data, but it can have some negative interpretation, and this is the following: most states have come by detecting that patients with certain types of cancer — for example lung cancer — have a higher incidence of contagions per covid, there is a somewhat high rate of contagion with respect to the general population's infection. In Galicia this increase has not been detected. It means that the level of copper-affected disease among lung cancer patients has not increased. This has two possible interpretations: one is assuming it's all right and nothing happened — and it's possible, and I hope — but maybe we're having a diagnosis deficit, because what other factor would explain that we don't have that increase here? In other words: if there is no distinguishing element between lung cancer patients here, or in other communities or in other countries, then that approximate 3% in which it is rising elsewhere is losing its diagnosis here; therefore, we would be facing a problem of absence of diagnosis. All these elements in which we have not yet had enough time, or the time margin, to have analyzed them, to analyze that research or to compare the data, may be leading us to think that there can be, as some experts say, an infradiagnosis caused by being deriving resources from other attentions, in this case mainly from the attention to safety. So we want to make that call or that warning about the need for the system to be strengthened and the professionals — those in the oncological area — have the capacity to have the resources, as well as the dual circuits, perfectly designed to be able to have the assistance they need. Because this isn't a field -- as we all know -- where we can delay or delay some kind of attention. It's hard to do it, it's a challenge to do it much more than in other health areas, that in other health fields, but it's necessary to do it, it's essential. And it's not easy to detect if it's actually happening or not. The experts talk about this problem and therefore it is necessary to take it into account. With these two appreciations, and not coming to discuss some problematic outbreaks that could arise in the system in the oncologic area in some hospitals — something that has happened and yet no explanation has been received about this, and it is important to say that, there has not yet been a real explanation of what happened with some outbreaks in some oncologic services— furthermore, with these two evaluations of the objective of our amendment and of the reminder that we need to take care of the fact that we may not be able to care enough for the oncologic patients because of deriving resources for the reception and neglecting some non-covided patients, we show that we expect support for the amendment. We think he's contributing. So with that support for the amendment, we'll be delighted to vote in favour, and we want these types of therapies to be a reality as soon as possible. We know there's some work done, and we know that in general, and it never costs to say it because this is so despite our discrepancies, the general work that has been developed in Galicia in recent years in the oncoholic services — with some punctual discrepancy that we can have — is a good job for both professionals as well as for the EOXI directors of the Council. There's a good job in the oncology area. We believe that these systems are good, that they work well. They'll always know a little bit, but we think the oncoholic system in Galicia works, and it works fine. And that's why we also want to say it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u99	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Carreira Pazos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u100	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I was referring to Mrs. Friend's gathering in the election program of the People's Party in the last few elections, and I would like to read the whole point of that same program: "It is now under way from the Greek Oncology Plan, which will provide an advance for the comprehensive approach of patients and will have as priority measures to speed up the itinerary of clinical visits and accelerate the diagnosis and initiation of treatment. Advanced therapies will be included, setting up a CAR-T therapy centre in Galicia, developing a strategy of personalized medicine and advanced cellular therapy so that the Greeks can benefit from these types of treatments in a closer way." My attention is strongly drawn to the fact that, as something the People's Party proposed, it begins at the end and if it forgets the first part, which is precisely the one that talks about priority measures. The basis of medicine should always be prevention, avoiding the onset of disease. For this reason, with the situation that we currently have with the coward, they were able to hear so much from this side of the hemicycle of the establishment of measures to avoid agglomerations in educational and health centres or, for example, the financing of masks to students and the search and detection of contacts and their isolation. Because the base of health should be to avoid the occurrence of any disease, also that of infection by the new coronavirus. [[Applause]] But sometimes -- it's true -- that despite everything, and even if all the necessary measures are put in place, medicine doesn't come in time and disease begins to develop. And then secondary prevention comes into play: detect it as soon as possible to prevent it from progressing and causing major damage. From there comes the demand for trackers, the realization of PCR tests and massive seizures in risk populations, or the reinforcement of primary care to carry out the follow-up of these patients. As you can see, we weren't talking about issues that weren't an important thing, but we've already seen that everything is connected. The same way it happens to the cowardice it happens to cancer. Work is fundamental to its prevention, to the establishment of healthy habits programs for the population. We need sensitization plans that go beyond the guilt of patients and create a state of panic and terror before the word "cancer." We also need efforts to focus on early diagnosis, to update and review the encryption programs that already exist and adapt them to the latest scientific evidence, and to make early detection programs of appropriate neoplasias for the Welsh population, taking into account our specific epidemiological characteristics. For this early diagnosis, we need the healthcare system to be accessible, that patients can consult when new symptoms appear. So let's imagine, by setting an example, a patient, a new woman who's worried because she's got a little crush on a side of her neck. If you want to make an appointment with your head doctor, you'll find in the first moment a trap: that there won't be any appointments for the next day and that the one you can take will be sure that it's going to be telephone. Primary care must be accessible, there may not be waiting lists for the five-day, seven-day, or ten-day header doctor. And they're not punctual cases, they're not punctual cases, they're cases that are more and more generalized, to the point that it looks like this is the new normality. [[Applause]] It is inescapable, because it is directly against the basis of primary care, it is against the principle of proximity and accessibility. It can't be that patients get lost in a labyrinth of phone calls, when it's obvious that in many cases there's going to be a need for physical exploration. Because telephone care — which is so much breast-feeding — is not capital medicine, we've lost there for a while that can be vital. And, by the way, Mrs. Friend, with regard to something heard in one of the audiences this week at the Reactivation Commission, it's very ugly to put the head doctors as responsible so that patients can have a presence date. Primary care doctors are not judges who decide whether the patients deserve a second or not appointment. They're neither the doctors nor the nurses nor the dentists nor the bosses. Whoever decides that the patients will have, yes or yes, a phone call is Sergas. [[Applause]] It's Sergas, with the advisor at the front, who decides to turn the system off and who, by default, can only get phone calls. Phone calls can help with administrative procedures or bureaucratic consultations, but it can't be the only way to get into the system. Yesterday we adopted in this House a motion to reactivate the presence of attention. [[Applause]] I really hope you don't stay in the paper. After evaluating a patient by phone and seeing the need for her to be valued in person, we give her another appointment. And in the time that appointment comes, time passes. Because if you want to see her the next day, or even on your own day, it will be at your expense to force an appointment beyond the usual schedule. The schedules aren't exactly scarce, and it's obvious that at one time we've all seen older patients, out of schedule patients, or even out of schedule. But something that should be the exception is the daily rule. They deliberately confuse the vocation of service with labour exploitation, because those who are left to end the consultation until four or five o'clock, or at that time do the house visits, are doing extra hours that will not be paid. [[Applause]] And these aren't exceptional cases. [[Murmurs.]] But we went on again with the patient who was bringing an example, the one who's got the soda right here in the neck. Once it is evaluated in person, if there was any diagnostic suspicion, there can always be a supplementary test — not many — that the primary care catalogue is more limited. And there we put time waiting again. Because it can't be that a blood analysis in a health center later than a week after being performed. And, as in the case of face-to-face appointments, the urgency criterion imposed will be the basis of asking for favors from companions and overloading schedules once again. And in case you need a hospital referral, you might give one of these hospital services that now only receive e-consultations, these services where, like in primary care, the first contact you have with patients is telematic. And the consultation isn't immediate either. You can accumulate one, two or three weeks of waiting until you get an answer from the hospital specialist. And maybe that answer is simply, "Let's quote it for face-to-face valuation," and again waiting for another face-to-face quote. At the end of the day, we see that this early diagnosis will no longer be so early after it accumulates weeks and weeks on waiting lists. And I know that the People's Party likes to suck and boast of its "reductive" waiting lists for the first hospital assessment. But what about the Mondays and the successive visits? What about the revisions? What if this patient has to wait for another complementary test that this hospital doctor asks you to do? When will you have this appointment? Because we're seeing how there are services that, although they may have a first visit in a medium-acceptable time, mark for the three-, four-, five- or six-month deadlines because there are no slots before. And if someone stays with the patient's concern, he'll obviously quote it again, forcing an agenda that's already overloaded and norming what should be the exception. How can there be oncological patients with a high risk of recurrence that are left in the limbo of the righteous and are going to be delayed after recitation and come to the consultation with a second tumor that could be detected long before? [[Applause]] They don't play with health and don't do demagogy with people's lives. CAR-T therapies can – and they will – assume a great advance for oncotoxic treatment. But it's worth nothing if we don't get to the stage in which patients are candidates for this treatment. It's not worth a pointer and effective treatment if we can't make prevention or early diagnosis. [[Applause]] It's not worth having a fantastic and wonderful roof that doesn't let a single penguin pass when it rains if you flood the house below every time it golds. It's not worth having 50 spectacular roofs, when there's no basis to support them. And, I repeat, don't misunderstand my words. The problem is not the CAR-T therapies. Welcome are all measures that are supposed to improve people's quality of life. The problem is they forget that before they get to CAR-T therapy there is a world, a world that has totally forgotten and abandoned. Public health cannot continue to survive in these conditions. Primary care cannot be a basis for early diagnosis, with agendas of thirty, forty or sixty patients. And by the way, I express a curiosity here that I have. I'd like to know how you calculated the average that Mr. Health Counsellor commented on one of the first full-times we had, that was 30 consultations a day. Because either they get on Saturdays and Sundays on that bill or I don't get my bills. [[Applause]] Yesterday we brought a motion here and we were told that it was immense. And my companion has already answered that this was just the urgent one. Don't eclipse them with fireworks, Mrs. Friend, and let's focus on the important thing. Thank you very much, and good morning.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Carreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u102	For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u103	Thank you very much, President. Well, I've come here to talk about CAR-T, but I think it's important to make some clarification. Mrs. Career, I don't know how long you've been working on the German Health System. I've been thirty years, over thirty years, and I think it's important to make some clarification. Because with respect to that lady you're referring to, who says she's got a tumor here on her neck, do you think, if you really call your head doctor, won't you tell her to go there for a physical exploration? And I make another clarification. [[Murmurs.]] Look, it's the head doctor, when a phone call is made — between the head doctor and the patient — which is agreed whether a physical consultation should be made or not. That's right, that's always the way it is, and that's always the way it has been. And, look, even Mr Martín — who was in the Commission the other day — said he had been on the telephone for over fifteen years. And, of course, to deny telemedicine today, to deny ICT today, look, it's not common; that is, in no advanced country, in no medicine in the world, if you deny that. It seems to me, let's go, that there are things that... of course... I'm glad you've read the election program, Mrs. Carreira. But, look, apply the story, don't play with health and, of course, don't do politics with it. Come on, I... [[Murmurs.]] And, speaking of protocols, in all hospitals there's a quick way. When one detects that a patient may have cancer, he calls the nurse and there's a quick route through which all these patients go. That's what any oncoholic patient in Galicia knows. I mean, that's the way it is. [[Murmurs.]] The people we work in the system we know. That's what we're doing every day, you can't deny what's obvious. Mr. Torrado, I thank you very much for your support. And I'm also grateful for your gratitude for the oncoholic services in our community. And, of course, these protocols of colon cancer, breast and cervix have not been looked at in these months of pandemic. It has nothing to do with it. I can assure you no. We also have today, Mr Rivera, which I see there, good news. Because recently the issue of EVI was discussed here. And, as is said in my village, they fell out of the ass and they recognized that the IVE had to go down to 4%. I think that we all have to celebrate today. [[Applause]] I'm sure all the Greek families today celebrate this. As I said, we were talking about the pathologies and the therapies of CAR-T, which are very important. And it has nothing to do with it, we can't mix things up. Galicia has leading oncohematology services in various hospitals in our community. And those important advances must also be in Galicia. We are talking about gene therapies, in which we have many authorities in this area, innovative treatments that are individually manufactured. And it has nothing to do with it, Mr. Torrado—another clarification that he wanted to make to you—that of those laboratories, Gilead and Novartis, which make CAR-T commercial. We're talking here about academic CAR-T, that they happen here and that they can apply and do research studies here in our community. The ability to count on these kinds of treatments will allow us to do letter treatments here for our patients, and that no family has to go out with everything cancer diagnosis requires. They know that these treatments have to go to intensive care. And apart from the pain of the first diagnosis because there's a lot of later suffering. In May 2019 an official list of the centres that were designated by the Government was known to be hospitals specialized in CAR-T therapies. And we all know Galicia stayed out. No Greek hospital was selected. And the Greek hospitals are bound to refer these patients to the nearest reference centers. Once again the territorial imbalance was evident, and state health gave its back to Galicia and to the whole of northern Spain while favoring the northeast, specifically Catalonia. None of the centers designated by the Central Government are located in northern Spain, although Galicia has centres with extensive experience in bone marrow transplants, with more than ten years of allogeneic transplants and with hematology services that have recognized prestige and an important investigative capacity. Of the three designated centres for the treatment of minors, two are in Catalonia. Of the eight adult hospitals, three are Catalonia, two in Valencia, one in Salamanca, one in Madrid and one in Andalusia. Galicia, zero. That is, more than half, five eleven, will be located in the northeast, despite the high qualification demonstrated by the Greek hospitals. Galicia and the Greeks do not deserve this discrimination, and we have an obligation to fight for equal health throughout the Spanish state. Each and every single autonomous community has the right to have the same opportunities in all fields, and more in terms of health care. We will accept the amendment, Mr. Torrado. Of course we're asking for it to be done with the public. We want to keep moving. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Friend. We suspended the meeting until 4:00 p.m., four o'clock.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u105	Good afternoon. We resumed the session. We continue with non-law proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Juan Carlos Francisco Rivera and two other Members, on the establishment by the Government of the Greek Government of a plan of deep-disbursed direct aid aimed at palliating the economic impact of the cover-19 in the hospitality sector in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u106	An amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u107	Mr. Francisco Rivera has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u108	Mr. President. Good afternoon to all Members. In the last plenary session, just over 20 days ago, we actually went up to this rostrum and asked Mr. Núñez Feijóo to explain around the confinement measures that were taken in the province of Ourense, especially in the city and in some towns -- Carballino, Verín, Barbadás -- and the towns that make up these villages. We asked him for explanations, not from a medical or clinical point of view - the whole of citizenship and, of course, the Members and Members of the PSOE, in that sense, we accepted the decisions faithfully and responsibly - but from the point of view that citizenship deserved explanations because this confinement had important economic consequences, especially in one sector, the hospitality sector, which had already come from a time when it was suffering a lot of prejudice. The confinement, in itself, in that city and in the villages, brought a limitation of shelters, brought a limitation of access to the premises and brought limited presence on the terraces, unique and exclusively, to the cohabitants. So it was causing a major ruin, a major injury to that sector. We demanded explanations from Mr Feijóo, basically because Mr Feijóo is engaged in questioning day and day as well - he has done so today in his appearance in this plenary - the Government of the State on the measures that this government takes in relation to the pandemic. So Mr. Núñez Feijóo questioned the state of alarm declaration that had been declared in Madrid, hanging on Mrs. Ayuso's hand - in this case to criticize Mr. Sánchez's Government - when, in fact, in Ourense province was producing a state of covert alarm concerning which we are asking for explanations. They had to spend 20 days, and today, Mr. Núñez Feijóo appeared in the plenary, on the basis of the BNG, and gave the explanations he understood convenient. I believe that Mr. Núñez Feijóo should appear in Parliament, not because he is a delegate, a representative or the delegated authority of the Government of the State in the management of the pandemic. I believe that he must appear in Parliament basically because he is the president of all the Greeks and Greeks, and citizens deserve explanations around the measures being taken, which are limiting fundamental rights and which are affecting his economic life. That's why we understand that Mr. Nuñez Feijóo must come. In this intervention over 20 days ago and over the past few years, we have put forward various initiatives in the sense that in the face of a dramatic situation such as the one in the sector, in this case of hospitality, public administrations need to take compensation measures. Citizenship cannot be confined, the establishment cannot be forced to be closed without establishing economic compensation measures in this regard. We know the situation in the sector. It is absolutely dramatic, agonic: a sector that is manifesting itself; a sector that is being unfairly stigmatized, as we all know, since the level of contamination in that area is not important in relation to what takes place in other areas and, of course, a sector that, stigmatized and not guilty of anything, needs help. That's what we've been complaining over the last few years. Even in the last Committee on Economic Affairs, we therefore call for direct assistance to the host sector in this case - and adding ourselves to the initiative, even if we were to present a similar initiative in previous committees. The reply of the Galician Group, the People's Party, in the parliamentary field, was to vote against and, at last, give little explanation. We're in a very complex situation. We're all aware. No one here, at last, neither I nor my group intend to do any kind of demagogy. I think this demands an immediate and agile reaction from the Galician Union. A reaction that, at least, has the same content or looks as it is being adopted from many municipalities in Galicia, which try to help, modify their budgets and provide all kinds of support to the sector, even direct aid; aid and an identical reaction to that which other autonomous communities are adopting and a reaction similar to that adopted by the Spanish State, the Government of the Spanish State, when it had to adopt measures of confinement for the whole of citizenship: 280,000 Galicians received benefits in terms of aid by ERTE; 80,000 autonomous, benefits for closure. Even today, the Ministry of Social Inclusion and Security announced the flexibility of access of the hosters to the provision for cessation of activity. We therefore demand an economic response from the Galician Union immediately and in a similar area as the rest of the public administrations are reacting. We did not say that the Galician Union had done anything in this area. Let's not say. But we understand that the reaction is being small, of little depth, slow, of little impact, and that, of course, if it is not agitating and putting funds on the table, in a short time, a sector which has already been badly damaged, as is the case at the hostel, it will be even more damaged. We understand that Igape has to play a much more important role than it is playing in the dynamisation of Galician economic activity, as an instrument for financing economic activity, basically at the moment. We understand that the announcements made by Mr. Núñez Feijóo regarding the 70 million autonomous aid plans have to be implemented in the DOG. It can't be that Mr. Núñez Feijóo announces a plan, fifteen days ago, of 70 million for autonomouss -- 30,000 autonomouss and 10,000 micropemes -- and has not yet been implemented. It can't be that 12 or 15 million euros are announced for the hospitality sector a few days ago and that it is said today in parliamentary headquarters that each host will receive between 2,200 and 7000 euros, when Mr Feijóo tells us that we have to... the Greeks know how to add, multiply and divide, which is true. I invite any one to make here a division of the 12,800 host settlements that are affected by the closure of the 60 municipalities, in relation to the 12 or 15 million Mr. Núñez Feijóo's offer of aid, and the divide between the 2,000 and 7,000 euros that he intends to allocate to each business. I believe that, at last — mathematical operations aside — 12 or 15 million are absolutely insufficient, they are absolutely ridiculous right now to alleviate the consequences of the closure that will affect — I insist — about 1,800 businesses and that will affect, in terms of employment, about 30,000 people in Galicia. I think a much more ambitious plan is needed. We could come here with a certain amount, a closed amount. We're not gonna do it. We're just going to set the example of the Basque Country, which announced 45 million euros for the sector in these last days; or also the Murcia region, 38 million, if I'm not mistaken. We therefore understand — with humility — that it is time for the Council of Galicia, which, over recent years, has received important transfers from the State and has participated in this fund in question of 16.000 million for the covid, which has budgetary capacity and which will have by the year 2021, as a result of the approval of yesterday's spending ceiling and the expenditure supplement, which implies 1,516 million euros, put on an immediate, axile and effective plan, with funds for the sector. And they don't tell us about 12 to 15 million, they don't tell us about the counts of 2,200 to 7000 euros for 12,200 or 12,800 businesses, when that, of course, is to install citizenship in a strategy of obvious confusion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u109	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u110	This is not a PSdEG initiative. This is an initiative in the sector, which is having a bad time today.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u111	Thank you, sir...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u112	I therefore turn to the vote. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u113	Thank you, Mr. Francisco Rivera. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Verea Fraiz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u114	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. At this moment, especially complicated for the entire hospitality sector, from the People's Parliamentary Group, we want to move a message of political and institutional support to one of Galicia's economic engines; one of the economic engines that is in an unprecedented crisis, which is experiencing an unprecedented blow after an extraordinary cycle. We came from record figures, we came from an acquittal trend that ultimately was the merit of the tourism industry itself and also, in some ways, of the entire Greek society, which understood and respected this sector as a key sector for the future of the country. There was a consolidated strategy between the Galician Union and the tourism sector that was improving our competitiveness. Every year we had better tourist products and with greater added value — what that meant for the country's wealth. And this fortress or these numbers of resistance were especially noted in the summer months, when all the differential in the Welsh tourism sector was above the state average. We are not going to repeat here the opening figures of hotel establishments, the figures of the fifth community with the largest number of tourists and even those of the catering and hospitality sector — with a level of activity in many cases similar to the year 2019, when, in addition, in this year 2020 they had to carry out an important re-adaptation of the business, both in the facilities and in the search for new customers in the face of the loss of international customers. We understand that these resistance figures will help at the time of recovery whenever we all agree with the appropriate strategy. It is undoubtedly one of the sectors most affected since the beginning by restrictions on mobility — in international mobility, in domestic mobility — by the special activity or nature of these activities, which are very linked to contact between people — long contact — and, of course, also in the face of insecurity. We all saw as when there was an alert, when there was a restriction, when there was a grom, automatically cancellations were massive. We understand that this is not the time for reproach. It's unit time. That's what the sector is asking for, and so does society. We're all seeing that special sensitivity that people have with the evil that is happening to hostage and tourism. Last week in the Recovery Committee you weren't there, Mrs Leticia Gallego was there, but there they moved us that message of unity and that all the administrations are working all their powers to save the sector. We all agree that, in the face of mandatory closure, the only solution is the rescue solution — we commented last week — and basically by two principles: a principle of efficiency and a principle of justice. It's less expensive to save these businesses now, these jobs. And, above all, it's more fair than waiting for a few months and meeting with the practice of the disappearance of the sector. The Galician Union has moved it. It will activate all budgetary possibilities. At the moment of a total restriction on the immediate active hostage of aid, ranging from EUR 2,200 to EUR 7000, completed to reach these figures, with the Self-Government Plan. It's fulfilling, and it also has an important challenge ahead. Because these aids have to reach a large number of beneficiaries. For that, we need to mobilize a large amount of budget, and above all — and it is most important — to arrive as soon as possible. That money has to be as soon as possible in the host sector. We are convinced that Junta will meet that challenge. The vice president of the board met with the sector, and there, on a working day, that call was made to the unit and to keep working together. Of course we are concerned about the People's Parliamentary Group because, if there is an instrument that is fundamental to reactivating a sector, it is the general budgets of the State — the budgets of Pedro Sánchez. And by analyzing those budgets, we can't find a single measure of concrete and specific impact on this sector. What is a terrible statement of intentions — and I assure you that some Member will be surprised, and especially the tourism industry — is that there is not a single euro, not a single euro!, for Xacobeo 2021, a terrible statement of intentions. Of course, the Galician Parliament called for a 4% drop in tourism VAT. Your parliamentary group has, by the way, abstained. We understand that this is a fundamental measure to boost demand at the moment we're in recovery. We expect them to recapcitate, as they just recapitulate with the VE of the masks, and we expect them, from the hands of the sector, on this download of the tourist VE, which is one of their fundamental demands. The sector is familiar with the document of the hospitality sector where all measures are, which affects all administrations. Of course they affect the Junta de Galicia, of course the government of Pedro Sánchez and of course also the municipalities, which are that nearby administration that knows the peculiarities of cities and villages and which can activate very effective and very efficient measures through aid or modulating municipal taxation, taxes and different rates. I'm done. From the People's Parliamentary Group, we want to highlight this call for unity, we want to support its GNP. We propose a formal adjustment in our amendment to urge the Galician Council to continue to urgently support all the direct aid to the hospitality sector and to continue to activate, within the budgetary limits, all possible rescue solutions. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we hope that the three parliamentary groups will be able to reach this agreement and move that message of unity to the whole sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u115	Thank you, Mr Verea. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs González Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u116	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I begin by sending all my support and the Galego Nationalist Block to all the men and women working in the hospitality sector who are particularly suffering from the economic impact of this crisis. [[Applause]] Measures to bridge the gap must take joint measures to save the economy and save employment. And they both have to be powerful. The situation in which we find ourselves is sensitive, but those who have the responsibility to govern must make the decisions necessary to shorten the effects of the pandemic. And when these decisions adversely affect an economic sector, it has to be helped quickly and with real measures that guarantee its survival. The hostel sector is one of the most affected and sees no way out. He sees his very uncertain future and asks for help and measures for his survival. They're in the loose rope and they need help to secure jobs. And the Government of the People's Party is late, bad and the trail. It's late because since March, months in which we've been closed and where we first closed the hostel sites, they haven't received any direct help from the board of Galicia that prevented the closure of the business. To go late means that many workers have already been left on the road and that there is a stream of closed establishments that goes further. While most autonomous communities in the state have called for direct aid since the first months of the pandemic, Mr. Feijóo has just announced an urgent line of aid for the hostel. After eight months of pandemic, the Galician Union announces the first call for aid, when the rest of the autonomous communities go through the second call. Do you know what the difference between Galicia and the rest of the state is? In Galicia, between September 2019 and December 2020, there is 0.7 % less autonomous; almost twice the average state. And do you know why other autonomous communities have been better able to cope with the crisis and have not closed their businesses? Because autonomic governments have done their work and helped them keep open and save jobs, which they didn't do to the Galician Union, which left them alone. The Galician Union is bad because, as you've been used to us since the beginning of the pandemic, it's acting without foresight, without force and improvisation. Instead of taking measures that guarantee employment and economic stability with anticipation, its policy was to act once the different sectors and collectives were mobilized. We saw him at night's leisure and now we see him at the hostel. Sectors like culture, leisure or trade are also suffering this crisis. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, don't wait for them to leave the street to articulate help to alleviate their difficulties. They follow the trail, because the people who work in the hostel are men and women who, over the course of these months, have suffered a sharp reduction in their income, and in some cases they have come to have no income. This limited situation is leading many families, depending on their business income, to social exclusion. I'm talking about women and men who work in the hostel and are forced to go to the NGOs to feed their families. I'm saying they can't afford the light, water, rent or food. I'm saying they're in poverty. I'm talking about being part of those embarrassing hunger queues that we see in our towns and cities. That's the reality they're suffering from in our country many of the people who work in the hospitality sector and many of the people from other sectors who work for the hostel. The answer these people receive from the Galician Union is that — in the words of Mr Rueda, who is here — the call for these aids is expected to begin this month of November. Predictably not November! Mr. Rueda, these aids must be summoned now! Hosting can't wait another day. Call for this aid immediately to ensure the survival of the sector. The Rescue Plan for self-employed people and microenterprises was announced on October 22nd and these aids are not yet called. They're going there for 20 days. If the direct aid to the inn is going to take the same speed, I'll tell them they don't leave in November. And we'll see if they're here to save them Christmas, as Mr. Feijó says. A line of help that takes a month to be summoned shouldn't seem very urgent to you. PP's gentlemen, you're very fond of ads. And this country needs fewer announcements and more calls for aid published in the DOG. Moreover, the aid announced by Mr. Feijóo is clearly insufficient for businesses that have been closed for eight months or with significant restrictions on the outflow. And so he's telling you the sector with his mobilizations on the street. The losses they're facing are much greater than the amounts they're going to receive with the aid. Mr PSOE already said so, if we take the data given to the Union — we do not invent it — and we divide it simply — EUR 12 million between the establishments, and we account for those of the 60 cities affected, which are 12,000, only those of the 60 cities affected — we know about EUR 1,000 per establishment; the amount that remains far away from the 7,000 euros that have been advertised with large holders. Do you really think with 1,000 euros of help you will be able to save this country's hostel, which has been dragging losses since March? Measures such as those of the German Government, which guarantee the coverage of 70% of the loss of establishments. Only by such measures can we guarantee the survival of a sector that is falling free, of a sector that accounts for 20% of the German GDP and gives employment to more than 66,000 people, so it has a major impact on the economy of Galicia and, in addition, an important role in the vertebration of the territory. The aids announced to Junta so far are clearly insufficient and, as I said, they're late. We need to cushion the impact of cowardice on the country's economy, and that's why we have two options at this point: weaving a network of protection for the hostel with direct help that guarantees jobs or waiting for its number to continue to fall and close more and more businesses. And then, well, we'll already create employment plans for the people of the collective who are unemployed; with the particularity that a lot of the people working in this sector are in the age group of over 50 years and most of them are women. Either of these two groups have a difficult job insertion, with the added difficulty of having their whole working life in the sector. The emergency situation in which the hotel is located is more than obvious. In the words of the collective itself, he's in the ICU and they need palliative care to save her. This country's hostel is at the limit and needs us to be up to it, that we respond with help to suit your needs, because we're already late, and the collective needs to be able to cope with the costs of suffocating it. Mr. Feijóo, Mr. Rueda, you can't apologize enough, as did the president. They already publish the call for direct aid and make it easier for families who depend on their business at the hostel not only to have a happy Christmas, as Mr. President said, but to have a happy life guaranteeing them a dignified life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u117	Thank you, Mrs González Iglesias. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Francisco Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u118	Mr. President. Mr People's Party Member, first of all, I thank you for your intervention. I expected Mr. Tellado to appear with an axe in his hand, in this case against Mr. Sánchez and against the Government of the State. I think in this sense I will take this license Mr. Tellado away, and in this sense I thank the tone employed. [[Murmurs.]] I think we're all really aware here of the situation in the country. It is a sector, as Mrs BNG said, in which 66,000 people worked in 2019, which accounts for 4.5 % of the European GDP, which billed 4,700 million euros, which has lost 10,000 jobs since 2019 to this day, and which is a sector that is in an agony situation, a situation motivated by many issues, mainly because of the recently decreed confinement, with the closure of business. The sector has been dragging over recent times the fall in consumption, the fall in demand and, as a result, also the impact on its business activity. And it needs immediate reactions, immediate reactions. I've heard here about plans of EUR 3,000 million, plans for economic reactivation by the Galician Union of EUR 3,000 million. Well, an important announcement, and it would be good if you had part of that plan that you had for the economic reactivation of the country immediately used it in the adoption of aid to the hospitality sector. It's 12,800 businesses, more or less, closed as a result of the confinement. Some — as is the case with the businesses of my village, Verín — were closed in the last month, throughout the month, as a result of an agreement between the sector and the Town Hall itself. And there, yes! there were direct help from the Town Hall to the settlements. We therefore demand that the Galician Council use all the public spending capacity, all the debt capacity — and that it do so agilely, quickly — and put a plan on the table that will escape — and allow me to qualify as such — from the ridiculous announcement that we have been made in the last few days in relation to aid to the sector of between 12 and 15 million euros. Mrs BNG made a very good report: 12,800 establishments less than EUR 1,000, not from 2,200 to 7,000 of whom Mr Núñez Feijóo speaks. So, in that confusion strategy in which Mr. Núñez Feijóo is installed, we say to them: do your economic policy in the medium term and, of course, immediately put your funds. They have economic capacity, received State funds for the fight against cowardice. They have a debt capacity from the 2021 budget, from the deficit, from the European funds. They will receive 430 million of the European Recovery Fund, 430 million of which ultimately aim, among other issues, to support self-employed people and support pemes. Make use of the budget capacity of the Union and put a plan that is at least up to what is being announced in the rest of the autonomous communities: 45 million in the Basque Country or 38 in Murcia yesterday, nothing to do with what you are announcing, nothing to do with it! They give an urgent, quick, immediate exit to this situation. Anyway, we could come here, and I've told you before, with an amount, to consider what you do in other areas of administration and to blame everyone. We've come with an approach I understand that serious and shared. We have to help the hostel. Mr. Rueda, you're in line with this kind of appreciation, aren't you?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u119	Don't ask him, don't dialogue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u120	In that sense, we appeal to the common sense, we appeal to the responsibility of all Members. Of course, we're not going to accept an amendment which is no less than a little trickle. If you want to help, vote on this initiative, put a serious plan, budgeted and agile, and make it available to the whole sector as soon as possible. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u121	Thank you. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u122	After the debate on non-legislative proposals has been closed, we proceed to the vote. We started by voting on the Socialist Parliamentary Group at the initiative of Mrs Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo. There are no amendments. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo and two other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Galicia in relation to the participation of the Galician Union in the financing of the municipalities, the increase of the Local Cooperation Fund and the establishment in 2020 of criteria for the distribution of grants to local entities. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u123	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. It says here that it is at the initiative of Mr Bará, but it is the initiative of Mrs Alexandra Fernández, about the actions to be carried out by the German Government and the demands to be made by the Central Government in connection with the Vigo-O Porto railway line. They're making me come up with a deal. It's a little long transaction but I think I should read it, because it's a proposal that has its silence. So I'll read it to you. This is how the Presidency appreciates this issue. He said: "The Parliament of Galicia urges the Government of Galicia to: 1. To include in the post-covid agenda the modernisation of the Vigo-O Porto railway line and its consideration as a strategic and priority project for the euro region, with the objective of having a competitive, modern and fast train that guarantees sustainable and secure mobility. With this objective, the Greek Government will push towards the Spanish and Portuguese governments the following actions: modernisation of the railway line understood as a mid-range route that gives continuity to the axis The Coruña-Vigo; drafting a joint study of the railway network of the Vigo metropolitan area for its vertebration; encouraging the inclusion of the Vigo-O Porto frame in the TEN-T core network of the railway Atlantic freight corridor; encouraging approval of the southern exit project of Vigo and its construction; studying and approving an alternative to the railway passage through the center of the village of Porriño; completing the electrification of the road in homogeneous conditions on both sides of the Mine; and improving the security conditions of the trace and suppressing the steps at the level. 2. To ask the Government of the State, to the extent that the health situation permits it, to increase the supply of services and improve the combination of schedules on the Vigo-O Porto route. 3. The state government's claim that transitionally affects the modernization of vehicles circulating along the Vigo-O Porto line. 4. To ask the Spanish Government for the agreement with the Galician Board of Phases and the deadlines for the modernization of the infrastructure between Vigo and Mine, as well as for the southern exit of Vigo, with the objective that the connection between Vigo and O Porto with a duration of less than an hour is a reality in the year 2030, in line with the deadlines marked by the Portuguese Government." This is the text we are going to vote on. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the German Government and the demands to be made by the Central Government in connection with the Vigo-O Porto railway line. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u124	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Ovidio Rodeiro. There are no amendments. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. At the initiative of Mr Ovidio Rodeiro Tato and six other Members, on the position of the Galician Parliament in relation to the reduction by the Ministry of Education, through the Royal Decree-Law 31/2020, of the level and requirements for a student to approve, promote or title in the course 2020-2021 irrespective of the number of suspended subjects. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u125	We are now voting for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Presas. It is accepted as an amendment to add that of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and that of the People's Parliamentary Group is not accepted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u126	We accept the vote by points.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u127	Accepts the vote by point. You can break me down which point they want to split up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u128	We would vote separately on the amendment by the Socialist Party on the points which include the BNG GNP.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u129	But I don't know if it's possible. Let the lawyer guide me in this matter. I don't know if this is possible or not. Well, let's consult, gentlemen, that's what the lawyers are for. [[Murmurs.]] I'll check it out. Did you understand what he's saying? We have to explain. [[Murmurs.]] He intends to vote separately for his amendment. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's not a point vote, it's to separate the amendment that you accepted as an addendum, vote on it alone, and then vote on your PNL. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u130	Yes, I have a special interest in seeing if the People's Party has changed its mind about the issue of the presentation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u131	It's okay. That's valid. So we voted first of all on the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. It's all right. What do we do? [[Applause]] Of course! They have to tell me! I didn't know! [[Murmurs.]] It's okay! [[Murmurs.]] We voted for the amendment of the Socialist Group. [[The first vote was cancelled by a deficiency in the electronic device and repeated.]] We repeated the vote because this went wrong. Let's repeat it. It's okay. [[Murmurs.]] It's wrong, they don't give the numbers here. [[Laughter]] [[Murmurs.]] Let us repeat the vote. First of all, we voted for the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Vote for the G.P. amendment. from Galician Socialists to G.P.'s Non-Law Proposition. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantinos and two other Members, on the position that the Government must defend before the Central Government and the European institutions in relation to the distribution of European funds to deal with the crisis of coward-19. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u132	And now we are voting in concrete terms on the non-legislative proposal of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. Voting of the G.P.'s non-legislative motion of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantinos and two other Members, on the position that the Government must defend before the Central Government and the European institutions in relation to the distribution of European funds to deal with the crisis of coward-19. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; against, 40; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u133	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Díaz. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is accepted. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular, at the initiative of Da María Encarnación Amigo Díaz and six other Members, on the elaboration by the Galician Union, within the framework of the future oncology plan, a strategy of personalized medicine and advanced cellular therapy, as well as the launch in Galicia of a CAR-T therapy centre. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 53; abstentions, 19. The voting is positive. The text of this non-law proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u134	Finally, we voted for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Juan Carlos Francisco Rivera. The amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group is not accepted. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr. Juan Carlos Francisco Rivera and two other Members, on the establishment by the Government of the Greek Government of a plan of deep-divided direct aid aimed at palliating the economic impact of the covid-19 in the hospitality sector in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 71. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u135	The voting was over and we are still on the agenda. We went to the interrogations. Interpellation of G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Marina Ortega Otero and three other Members, on the policy of the Government of Galicia in relation to the impact of the curfew-19 on residential care centres
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u136	Mrs Ortega has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u137	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. More than a thousand people died for cowardice in Galicia. Unfortunately this figure is marked by higher residential care centers, which have overflowed the figures to almost half; figures that are names and surnames, lives that have left us and family dramas, which have neither been able nor fired from their own. We are immersed in a very harsh context and, unfortunately, deaths are not the only tragedy in this matter. Yesterday the media showed photographs of Salvaterra's residence — incredibly intervened fifteen days ago by the Galician Union — in which the word "horror" is short. The images, not suitable for sensitive people, show serious injuries to the body of an older person — workers indicate that 90% of residents had ulcers as a result of lack of hygiene and absolute abandonment — and the unfortunate state of the facilities. These photos are the mirror of a reality that much of society has no access to, a reality that shows the extremes that come when there is a lack of resources, lack of personnel and neglect of legislation itself. Counsellor, you will have to clarify how it is possible that on October 27th-Junta would intervene in this residence with an official communiqué that said textually or as follows: "Once the situation of residence has been evaluated, the health and social policy advisors agreed to take this measure. A team of health professionals in the Galician Service is already displaced in the centre and is responsible for continuous medical monitoring of the situation of residents, as well as for monitoring the correct implementation of prevention, safety and hygiene measures in the face of the shelter-19 approved by the Galician Union." It's a very serious and delicate subject, and that's why we have to be careful but be vigilant. I hope that you will explain these reports and clarify whether the workers at the Board warned of this situation on the 30th and then to senior authorities of the Administration, and why they had to report in writing at the end of the week, in the past days, making public yesterday through the media. Why? Before the pandemic, they warned that these types of situations could happen to the Board of Auditors, to the workers in the sector themselves and to the families of users. After seeing the dramatic news of Salvaterra's residence, I recalled the words of the councillor in this House on repeated occasions — and I quote from the text: "All Galician residences — whether public, private or social-initiative — are under the supervision of the Galician Union and under strict and continuous control of health authorities". How, then, can it be possible, Counsellor, if such strict custody exists in all residences, that Salvaterra will come to such a situation, the result of a clearly prolonged abandonment in time of the care of the elderly? The timeline of the account does not begin at the beginning of the pandemic but years ago, after the complaints of the workers — without being heard by the competent administration — when the families warned that there were breaches of the regulations and when the Board of Auditors gathered all the information in the Demoleptic report a few years ago, indicating that there were breaches of the personnel ratios, resources, and non-compliance with the demands of the contracts. And as the residential squares went up, the inspections provided for by the Social Policy Council were down. A few days ago, Counsellor, you said in this House that 250 inspections were carried out this year to major and disability centres; when, for example, in 2011 — according to the Board of Auditors — they made a total of 418. Now it's vital to increase inspections, today more than ever. And not only that, but that the PP, you, Counsellor, voted that they didn't want to have the incident investigated in senior residences in a specific commission for that. You, Counselor, said in this House that everything was right in the homes of older people, that there were only 1% cases of contagion in the residences. The grave point of this statement is that on September 23rd, and fourteen days later, on October 7th, he cut and grabbed and repeated exactly the same thing obvious all the cases that were happening, showing a great irresponsibility in his own inability to be interested in the evolution of the data — which are, of course, of his responsibility. Today we're going to 22% of the major affected centers; that's 57 major centers in Galicia have within the coronovirus. What are the objective criteria that make a residence intervene and how do they intervene? What means did the Galician Union put in the residences involved? In what way — as all residences say — guardianship? In what way?Oh, my God! Why wait for a residence to intervene when the contagions already invade this one and don't approach it before? And most importantly, why don't they evacuate everyone immediately, all of them!, the hidden cases from the residential center itself? When an older person agrees to apply for a residential place such as a requirement to access a document in which he or she declares to have no infectious disease, like a child when he or she enters a nursing facility. And if there's a contagion in a nursery's own context, it's evacuated immediately. Why don't you do it with older people? The context today is totally different from March. There are means of protection and a capacity to test that we didn't then. But the truth is, the increase in cases in the residential context today is more worrying than ever. How can it be that more than a hundred positives appear in a center — as happened, for example, in Perero de Aguiar, Salvaterra and in many other cases —? How? How are all Galician residences protected then, as counsellor says? The experts themselves on the subject indicate that the key is in the immediate evacuation of the positives, and even more with possibilities. Could you make it clear if it's true that in the first wave, the two middle centres qualified in Molgas Baths and the Road Door, they didn't even deal with 50%? Is this true? Why are existing resources not used? But worse yet, why in the second wave of the pandemic, do two centres with lower capacity of squares still and still continue to happen? A few days ago, a survey by the Higher Council of Scientific Research analyzed the context of the shelter in residential care centers with the title What can be done better? And one of the central ideas of the study is to ratify what our group has been proposing to the Government of Unity: an immediate evacuation protocol in the face of a positive case, because it's a matter of prevention of public health, and to ensure 100 percent health care for all our elders. This would largely prevent the abrupt and massive contagions that we're living in in the last few months. What we can't afford is that our citizenship has to see every day headlines of massive outbreaks in our senior centers. And, of course, we can't afford to dehumanize the context, never! We will not tire of proposing clear lines of action, even if they ignore us, Counselor. First, they urgently draft a protocol for the evacuation of all positive residential centres, where those who need hospitalization are attended in time and those who do not need it are evacuated to intermediate centres to avoid contact with the rest of the residents — a key measure not only to avoid infection but also to allow them a life more normal for residents living there. It's vital to maintain your physical, cognitive and mental health. [[Applause]] There are older people who are locked up in their rooms. [[Applause]] This is happening in Galicia, Counselor, that's what the workers say. It is vital to improve times of reaction — anticipation, Counsellor! — we are waiting for urgent socio-health coordination. They take the tracks seriously and reinforce primary care, increase protection for workers -- and especially listen to them, sit down with them. These are vital issues to deal with and address a very complex context in which we know that a massive contagion in a residential context will determine the chronic death of up to 30% of our seniors — as happened in residences like, for example, that of San Lázaro, in Santiago. We can't afford it any more. It's not our own deaths. It's also our seniors who live with the abandonment of their care for non-compliance with the ratio or regulations themselves, as happened in Salvaterra. The coward opened the doors to a previously hidden sub-world for our society, and after eight months of pandemic and experience, with more resources and materials and evidence we had to observe progress and improvements in the management of the pandemic in this context. And the fact is, we're the same. It is clear that the situation is complex, but we have to change the modus operandi — how much before — to root out the massive contagions, because they have dramatic consequences in this context more than in any one. Something's going wrong. If he was able to recognize it, the Health Counsellor himself in statements to the media—textually said, "We have to analyze and see what failed." That's how he declared it. He recognized him. You should recognize him, too. That way, things would probably get better. Let's take care of the emergency. The next one will change not only the residential model, but the model of integral care for our elders. We have a moral debt with our elders. Not only do we talk about life, but about the kind of treatment we give our elders. And let me finish with the textual words that passed on to me the son of a woman who had died in a house, in a massive grunt, in particular in Pereiro. He said, "My mother didn't die of cowardice, she was asymptomatic, she died of loneliness and grief." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u138	Thank you, Mrs Ortega. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Reply by the Social Policy Advisor, Mrs. Fabiola García Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u139	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Ortega, good afternoon. I'm going up to this stage for the third time in just over a month to explain the measures taken by the Galician Union to the coronary virus contagions in some residences in Galicia. Be assured that I will return to this gallery all and how many times it is necessary to emphasize that the Government of Greece is using all the tools that are at our disposal to deal with this pandemic, with all the means that are necessary, with all the resources necessary, with all the time, all the attention and the jobs that are necessary to minimize the risk that the coronovirus enters into the larger residences, for as long as there is no vaccine this risk cannot be zero. This close follow-up accompanies the excellent work that workers are performing in practically all of Galicia's residences, so I will never let them move from here our most heartfelt thanks. Sociosanitary professionals and health professionals have put aside their personal needs to devote themselves to people who needed it most, to devote themselves to the most vulnerable people, who are the older people and people with disabilities. The combination of professional engagement with socio-health authorities has allowed more than 98% of Galician residential squares today to be free of curfew. At this point we are already aware that, unfortunately, no residence is a bunker against the virus. But strictly applying the protocols, applying the protocols carefully, helps prevent the virus from spreading. This is demonstrated by the more than 400 residences that do not present any infection in our Galicia today. And just a month ago I explained in this House why it wouldn't be fair or practical to intervene 100 percent of Galician residences, those over 400 residences that are totally free of coronavirus, well because you've already overcome the disease, well because you never entered the virus, and that work completely normally in a context as difficult and as complicated as we're living. Because it wouldn't be fair to the entities that manage these residences and are complying with the protocols and are acting diligently. It wouldn't be fair to your staff either, who works professionally and works with daily engagement. And it wouldn't be fair for the families of all those users, who would see their confidence questioned in the residence and changed their surroundings with an unjustified motive. The intervention of residences, Mrs Ortega, are exceptional measures which apply in exceptional situations and by purely health criteria. And when, according to these parameters, professionals understand that the quality of care is compromised, the Galician Union acts. It is also important to banish the image of interventions as a punitive measure, because the goal is not to punish those responsible or punish workers. The goal is to support, help and find solutions. And if in any case the health inspection or inspection of the social services of the Galician Union detects irregular situations, be assured that the Galician Union will act with all constancy, as it has always done, to ensure compliance with the regulations and the care quality of older people. We can't let ourselves be led by other motivations that, although I don't want to doubt that they are well-intentioned, they're not purely healthy. In a pandemic like this we should let the experts act. You ask me in the written question — not when you did the intervention — why the residences of Lobeira and Monterrey did not intervene. The answer, Mrs Ortega, is because, after health professionals valued the situation, they considered that the best way was to guarantee the quality of care in their own residence. That we don't intervene in a residence doesn't mean in any case that we don't put all the means within our reach to monitor it, to assist it and to equip it with all the resources that this residence needs. It's just that the experts tell us that the optimal formula is that. In the case of these two residences, there has been a very close monitoring of their situation, and today I have to tell you that, fortunately, 100 percent of Lobeira and Monterrey's residences are free of coronaviruses. I am deeply sorry that there were older people who were already weak and who could not overcome the illness, but I know that their families are also aware that the Galician Health Service has done everything possible to the end to save their lives. Galicia may be very clear that we will continue to improve them, as we have improved them during these eight months of health pandemic. Today, Galician residences are more prepared to deal with an infectious disease, with more trained staff, with better comprehensive socio-health care — which we are going to strengthen with that new general direction — with protocols that combine the prevention of infections and contact with all families, with a supply of protection material centralized by the Galician Union, with continuous social services inspections — more than 300 at this time, both routine and extraordinary — and with fifteen-year-olds of workers from all residences. Look, Mrs. Ortega, you worry a lot about Salvaterra's residence, and so do I. And having knowledge of that written about the situation of the residence of Salvaterra de Mine and the images accompanying it, in Junta de Galicia we are very closely examining the situation that is taking place in that residence. At the moment that the complaint arrived immediately they moved to the residential centre a health inspection and an inspection of social services. Because our only priority is to take care of them is to save all those older people who live in the residence and to check through health and social inspections that they scrupulously comply with the current legislation. If you don't meet or if you don't comply with the current regulations, be sure that the Galician Union will open sanctioning files. But at this point, and after the public intervention of Salvaterra's residence, the nursing staff, nursing assistants, the technical staffing of the residential center, with about 50 professionals who are at the foot of the cannon attending, taking care of and pampering all those older people. And indeed — but you don't count that part — that writing of what you're talking about also says that, with the intervention of the Galician Union, if you've improved the quality of care for older people. And in that way, Mrs Ortega, it's where we're going to work and what we're going to work on all the time, to safeguard the care and safeguard the health of the older people who live there. [[Applause]] Mrs. Ortega, I also ask you to be careful and, when I transfer information to all the Greeks and to the Greeks, that is true information. I honestly think more of the inspectors of the Galician social services than of information that you or some means of communication. Ladies and gentlemen, of course we still have to admit that we have a long way to go, and believe me that we will keep moving forward. And on this line will also be the new model of residences that will be dialogued with socio-sanitary experts and all professionals in the sector. I assure you that we will always work without rest and while there is only one case of coronovirus in some senior residence in Galicia. I told the beginning of my intervention that we are all using, absolutely all, the means that are at our disposal to care for and to save the older people who live in Galician residences. And we'll continue to use all the means at our disposal, because this is a commitment from all of us: the fight against the virus, to look after, to pee and save the most vulnerable people in Galicia, who are the older people and people with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u140	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mrs Ortega's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u141	Thank you, President. Counsellor, how can you talk about the workers when they've been reporting that they've been asking for 20 weeks to meet with you and you deny them that meeting? How is that possible? Explain it! [[Applause]] If you want to give so many praises, you'll probably be excused, Counselor. Not small excuse, manifest accusation, remember. He also says, "I go up to this gallery for the third time in less than a month." For it should rise as many as possible, because it is the central theme that must occupy the Council of Galicia, this one and the health, Counsellor. And another thing that seems very serious to me: did you just recognize here in this Parliament that acted after the complaint they filed on the weekend about Salvaterra's residence? Does that mean he's been intervening for 15 days and they haven't acted? Don't you? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Did they act 15 days ago? But 15 days ago they acted? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u142	They don't dialogue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u143	And why did these beds exist? Why did these beds exist? Did you see Telecinco's TV today? [[Mrs. Ortega Otero shows a photograph from the stage.]] They were resting their mattresses today. They were still bought yesterday and the residence has been in service for 15 days. Madam Counsellor, please, seriously, who is responsible for social policy! Why aren't we informed about the type of sanctions in the centers — if there were them — and why? Why aren't we informed about the type of resources that are being invested in senior residences? Why not report the daily number of contagions in residences and by breakdown of centres on the official page of the Galician Union? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Why? Citizenship has the right to know the reality of residences. Stop omitting information, because it only serves to create uncertainty in citizenship. In addition, as a well-known journalist said a few days ago at the national level about the health adviser's interview when he refused to give the tracking data, "you're not the CEOs of a private company, but public citizens' representatives and are managing the economic games of all Greeks and Greeks and deciding protocols that affect their well-being and health directly. It's a duty, not an action, a duty. [[Applause]] And this can't be the line of action, Counselor, if you don't recognize the mistakes and show a face of apparent tranquility when the thing crumbles, as if it were all right. Because it's fake. It can't be that, on the one hand, their public interventions are continually based on praise to the workers in the sector and, when it comes out that door, closes and there is no foci or media, nor does it receive to listen to them. The workers in the sector, as well as the workers in the SAF, need not only the courage to speak, but also the work, Counselor. It can't be that workers are under an inescapable stress and a precarious level in most cases. It cannot be that there are abrupt and massive, numerous contagions in residential centres in Galicia and that many people with contaminated personnel — the massive level in most of them — are covered by practically all by staff of other residences. This is called "the technique of using a scrap for a peel." You can't take staff from other residences and leave these staff deprived to cover others, as it has happened. Where is the supposed guardianship of all residences? Where? It can't be that Junta doesn't explain what the media, the human and material resources are on the table on this pandemic, if they are on it. In the first wave of the pandemic, the Social Policy Council renewed senior positions of the organization chart of its portfolio, except that of its own advisor. And you announced with many headlines the new Directorate General for Sociosanitary Care. Since then, the management of the coward remains the same, so we understand that it depends not on the general leadership but on the lack of leadership by the Council itself. The praise to the workers for their part does not nourish their precarious work. I encourage you to meet with them, who have long denounced the Social Policy Council. They warned that things were not going the right way and that this would result in a detriment to our elders. And today I want to make public the recognition and the courage on the part of them, which they didn't look elsewhere and which, thanks to which, today, we know situations like those of Salvaterra, residence supported by the media as "the residence of horrors." If it weren't for the workers of this hearing who reported, we wouldn't know this situation, Counselor. How many more residences can there be like this in Galicia? How do they exercise that supposed guardianship in residences? What is the timing of the Council's action as regards the intervention in Salvaterra? Because it's been a fortnight, and we've known these things from such gravity yesterday. And, what's worse, when did the Administration itself take inspection measures?, with what date? I am forward to his second intervention — which I will not have the opportunity to answer — in which he always takes advantage of to throw balloons out against the Government. And I'm telling you, focus, the powers were always at the Social Policy Council, at the Galician board, before, during and after the coronavirus.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u144	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u145	Time runs against our elders. They evacuate absolutely all the positive, protect and give quality of life to the negative. Our biggest ones deserve respect and a change of perspective about them, as people who have a lot to offer to our society. They deserve dignity and respect. Always, always, we have to guarantee your well-being, Counselor. I encourage you to correct and take solutions in this matter as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u146	Thank you, Mrs Ortega. [[One person from the House services comes to disinfect the stage.]] Close the interrogation by the Social Policy Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Ortega, since the pandemic began, each and every one of the health workers and the health care area of the Galician Union have spent every minute of their daily lives fighting the pandemic. And thanks to this experience, thanks to this dedication, along with the support of the health and social policy councils, it has translated into an organized work and a professional work that seeks to curb the entry of the coronavirus into residences, which has provided the residences of prevention, safety, hygiene protocols, which are effective and are clear in all centres of older people and people with disabilities. They're protocols that detect contagions so they can stop them as soon as possible and that guarantee health and human care for our loved ones. Mrs. Ortega, I don't know how shameless it is to come here to this gallery and say that the Galician board doesn't publish the data. Otherwise, how would every day in the media get out the contagions in each of Galicia's residences? Still saying no? [[Mrs. Ortega Otero denies with his head.]] Mrs. Ortega, please correct and speak to your colleagues in the Central Government, who have been in darkness for eight months, eight months, hiding the data from the autonomous communities, eight months depriving all the families of all those dead of which was the rate of contact by autonomous communities. You say no here, but the data is not published. Where are they? I don't want to think that the Socialist Party of this House has data from those who don't have either the Government or the citizens. You're also talking about Home Help Service. You've been a conciliator in Carballino, if I'm not mistaken, and you know perfectly well who hires Home Help Assistants. We don't do any more than continue to increase more and more hours every day to all the municipalities in Galicia to give all the older people a better service, to all those older people who tell us that they want to continue living in their homes. That's why we give them more and more hours of home support every day, more care, more advanced teleassistation, more day centers, more houses than 100 percent free for all the older people who live in rural Galicia. Look, Mrs. Ortega, Salvaterra's residence was intervened by the Galician board, and from that very moment they began to arrive all the material and human resources that were needed for that residence to get those older people forward. About 50 professionals are currently working in Salvaterra's residence. You may say no, but I invite you to the Salvaterra residence and check there if you're working cranes so you can move older people. Please, Mrs Ortega, inform yourself well before you come to this Parliament and say lies to the elderly, to the Greeks and to the Greeks. [[Applause]] The truth is, I think it's a very difficult situation that we're living in. I think it's a very painful situation to walk around moving paper with whips. I think it's time to reach the shoulder, give thanks to all the workers who are near the cannon all day working with older people, to accompany all the families who have lost a loved one. I think it's a situation so difficult, so painful and so delicate, that you shouldn't make the politics that you're doing. Government criticisms should be made, but constructive criticisms. If they are constructive criticisms, we will always be there, Mrs Ortega, to listen to them, to value them, to put them into action if necessary, if they are well valued and applied. Look, I know very well that there's still a way to go. As long as there's a single life at risk of an older person who may have a coronovirus, our commitment will always have as its primary objective to eradicate this pandemic of senior residences and residences of persons with disabilities. It's very painful to look back and see the damage that it has left in all this pandemic, to see the lives it's followed and the way it's changing our way of relationships and our way of getting closer to others. But we also know that everything we've been through has also been useful for something, because we now have more professional experts in the fight against the virus — unknown until just a few months ago —. We have more prepared residences, we have a more conscious society, we have more effective protocols. The firm bet on a professional, health and care management of this crisis allowed us to get out of the first wave, wounded by the lives that the virus left behind but also more prepared to face this second wave. Experience has shown us that Galicia is responsible, that Galicia is a fighter and that Galicia is willing to face this pandemic with all the tools that are within its reach. And we, as a government, of course as well. That's why I'm sure we're all going to get out of this situation. When all this happens, we will resume all our plans for the future and regain the illusions of our day-to-day. But in the meantime, it's about working and standing by the cannon to take care of, to pee and give life to all those older people who deserve to live on. We're going to be next to him, we're going to work with all the professionals to work for the older people, but also to work and to help all those senior residents and people with Galician disabilities. Again, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u148	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Interpellation by Mr Julio Torrado Quintela and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Government of Galicia in relation to information to the municipalities regarding the incidence of the covid-19
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u149	Mr. Torrado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u150	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. Good afternoon, Counselor. We are now planning an initiative on something that concerns us, which is the use of information from this Government on the pandemic, of the data, of the information they have — certainly when we see Mr Feijóo these days complaining about the manipulation of information; he said the pot to the chase. In any case, the problem of information is born — and allow me to start thinking — that this government and our parliamentary group probably have a different concept than information management. You have a clear and legitimate responsibility to govern and manage, among other things, information, to manage it. But they don't have the power over information; or rather — for there's no confusion — they don't have the power to keep information. I know it's a government that likes to keep, but they don't have the power to decide which information you can share and which you can't. It's true that it's tempting to decide "who knows what" and "who makes it easy for." But sharing information — especially in such a case as what we are facing with this crisis — is not a magnificent will of this Government. Therefore, Counsellor — allow me — the interview that has become sadly famous recently is not decent of a ruler. You can't say "I won't provide you with that information" when you're asked for information. And they can't do it because that information isn't yours. You have the legitimate responsibility, of course, to manage it, but you have no right not to share that information. So we want to move that, first of all, that information is not yours. They have the responsibility to manage it. But it also comes to what Mr Feijó said here today about the truth and the lie. Truth and lie is a concept that sadly today is subjective. It is also a lie that we do not share the whole truth — especially when we know it. So if you're asked again and you say you know how many trackers there are in Galicia, you have to say how many there are. Especially because the problem we have is that today Mr Feijóo came here saying that there were 700 — I think it was what he said today. It's already 700 today. It was 20, 500, 50, two and a half million, then there wasn't, there were 6,000 and now there were 700. It's gonna happen like Fairy, that trackers are all of us. We have a problem with the information if you think it's on your property. And that's not true. So we thought from that point of view that information is not their power, it's their management. Silvio Rodríguez said, "If you know you're not a right, you're sure you'll be a left" Beyond sung poetry, the truth is, you don't have that right to protect information in that sense. We move this debate because there are problems with information. Look, the clearest thing is: you've recently published -- it wasn't timeless too! -- a map of affectation of the covid by municipalities, an affective map on what the municipalities have a problem with interpreting why some measures are taken. And it has to do with basically publishing information about the municipalities that are not suitable for interpreting the measures because the information with which the measures are taken is on other maps that you don't publish. This curious thread has to do with publishing information that they use for nothing. And it's normal, because it's absurd information to publish. It's absurd in percentage terms. It's not the same -- and you know, we've talked about it many times -- 25 cases in Narón than 25 cases in Petín. On the map they're on the same level and it's not the same. So what's it worth if it's not to generate more discomfort, more confusion, more doubt? Is it worth a day more confusing — for the sake — active cases with positives? What's the point? The increase in active cases is not the same as the increase in positive ones. It's not the same! So we can't continue to disseminate information that's spoken only to contribute to general confusion so that we can continue to have the property of information. Because the property of information allows, in addition, to manage and make decisions without having to give many explanations. And that we already know they like it very much, but that's not what we demand. We believe you have this problem with information. Recently, thanks to an initiative by our group here, it was published — four months later — the Serological Study of the Galician Union, which ended in June; a study on what no one has given an explanation, and what we have already proposed here. And that is, if this study contested by everyone around the world is true — and if you believe that study, we still have a data, and that is that the ratio of dead people in Galicia is not only the worst in Spain but the worst in Europe. Because this study says they've been infected until the end of June around 30,000 people, which, in a direct account of the 600 dead we had at that time, gives one dead for every 50 infected people. I insist, it's one of the worst ratios in Europe and the worst in Spain. No one has given any explanation about it. Why? Because it probably goes like information about the municipalities, the crawlers, the open data and any other -- that you're not in this. Why are we really talking about? We're talking about you intentionally manipulating the information to build a self-centered account of Mr. Feijóo, which you don't mind if you solve the problem, you care how you count. And that's the problem, that we're all, all of us, throughout Galicia, in a personal story of feeling the most handsome of the class. And so it happened to us that we were against the state of alarm, then we were in favor; when he came back, we would be against him again; when he got out, we were in favor. Then they were alarming stadiums, then it was demolition and then it couldn't be because it had a huge reputable cost. But when November 9 could be taken off, you continued to use it. Why? Because in the end they know that everything they say and the use you make of the information is false, it's intentional and, above all, it's malicious. And so it happens with trackers. What happened to the trackers, Counsellor? It happened what we all know, that Mr. Feijóo is a [lying liar], and that he said what he said in the campaign. [[(Expression taken from the Journal of Sessions by the President in the light of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure.)]] He said what he said in the campaign because we were in the campaign. [[Murmurs.]] And he must have said 6,150 that 10,500,000 that 4. It gave him absolutely the same! And what happened happened: that you, Counselor, had to paint his face. [[Applause]] And you, when you painted Mr. Feijóo's face... for sure today he's been contradicting, because, if he says there's 700 and you hold that you can't say how many there are, because you agree at least on a criterion. We can discuss the criterion, but at least have one. When you had to paint the face of Mr. Feijóo, what happened to him happened to him, that he had to start to shut up about it. I had done what I wanted to do, which was to assume that we were very "I don't know what," because that's what matters to him. How much better, really! What do you care about Mr. Feijóo? How many trackers there are! What do you care? He doesn't mind being able to tell it, and once he's told everything he wants, then he doesn't care. Now it's 700. And tomorrow, if they have to be 1,300, it'll be 1,300. What's the matter? What you need every day! What's more, if the criterion on rigor is a minor thing! And so what happens, and so you then disagree against the state of alarm, but they close bars; they close bars but leave the brothels open. They close theaters but open churches. [[Murmurs.]] Well, Mrs. Prado looks very, very dangerous to keep the brothels open, I don't know if she's laughing. It's not funny to me, but if you don't mind, I didn't really think it would be funny for you. [[Applause]] I didn't think it was funny. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, I'm sorry I made you very funny, I'm sorry. If you don't mind, I'll continue to defend that we have to close the brothels. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] You, Counselor, are still moving that the fault of the big contagions in some cities was from the students. There have been students who say that the percentage of affect is the same as that of the general population. Nobody said anything about it. Because what's wrong? You put the message, you put the message that it was the student's fault, because it's always someone else's fault, it's always someone else's fault, and for that they use the information. And that's the problem. Do you remember — I remember — how in this gallery, in this very instance, a PP spokesman said in full pandemic in the first wave that the faulty government masks infected 70 health workers? Because here we had to blame the government. Do you know what happened later when the mascarillas distributed them to Galician Union? That the health contagion was already their fault, because they were infected with coffee machines. And this is the story, to blame someone, the government, then the health care professionals, then whoever needs it. Do you remember that use of information and measures on the theater if you could go to the pharmacy or not because you had to cross the bridge? Do you imagine today that we could make that same pathetic theater that Mr. Feijóo did here telling why an establishment in Sanxexo can be opened and not in Grove? [[Murmurs.]] Or why is it in Cervo and not Burela, 30 meters from each other on the municipal limit? By the way, there are more infections in Cervo than in Burela with fewer inhabitants. [[Mr. Balseiro Orol pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Balsairo says it's a lie. Don't you see we have an information problem? Don't you see we have a problem with information because official data says yes and yet PP says no? So, see if we can at least not discuss the facts. Publish the data. You use that information maliciously, and so it happens that Mr. Feijóo made that appearance complaining that the following week at the Interterritorial Council did not give him any business. And he was closing Town Councils at a TV show where the mayors were entering on TV. And this is the problem we have with the information, which you don't mind transmitting the information, but what they care about is using it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u151	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u152	For what? For an egalactic account. Because that's what we live in, an egolatra who wants to make a personal story built to say it's very good. And with that, some elections are saved, vows are saved, but no lives are saved. And that's the problem, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u153	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Mr. Torrado, you are a member of Parliament who already has a certain experience here, and I believe there are certain ways to use certain words. I'm going to ask you to withdraw, in particular, the "liar mouths" referring to the president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u154	If you'll excuse me, I have to tell you that they were words used by Mr. Feijó in this same gallery...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u155	No, no, thank you. You didn't use that; if you didn't, you'd have asked him too. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I don't think that's part of the dialogue between parliamentarians. Thank you for pulling him out. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Thank you. He's retired, of course. He said he agreed to retire. Then that expression is withdrawn. The Health Counsellor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u156	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Torado, I have to disagree with you, because I believe that the relationship between Galician Union and the municipalities in connection with this pandemic was absolutely loyal and transparent. And I'll explain. But first, I want to emphasize that the important information, the key information, was that they had to have the health centers, the territorial headsets and the preventive medical services that make up the Galician Health Service. And that information, from the minute one of the pandemic, was available to them, in the computer tools and in the information bulletins that are handled with them. They had it in absolutely all the actions they needed that information, because they are the ones working with the citizens and taking preventive measures in the field of health. Having said this, I also want to say that in the first wave of the pandemic, and when the health emergency was decreed in Galicia and the state of alarm in Spain, the Galician board created the Cecop, the Operational Coordination Centre, in which the president of the Fegamp participated in all the logistical decisions that the Board had to make in such a complex situation; a contrast to the attitude of the Spanish Government, which held conferences of presidents to repeat to the autonomous presidents what had already been heard in the press round of the President of the Government of the day before. By the way, I come from the International Council, in which the Minister of Health has just announced to us the bomb and plate the creation and the mandatoryness of the PCRs in the previous 72 hours when a foreign citizen arrives in Spain, as of course we celebrate, and half an hour earlier had the Chain Being. [[Applause]] Having said this, we must remember that this health crisis began with the Union being much more loyal to the municipalities than the Government of Spain to the autonomous communities. Alarm status is over and Joining has continued to be loyal to the Town Councils. It obviously did not incorporate them into purely health decisions, because for that it has a clinical committee, but rather to the subsequent operational management of those health decisions. When the decision was made to make a perimeter closure in certain Marine Town Councils in July, the Board held regular meetings with the mayors of those municipalities to give them information, resolve doubts and solve the problems of management and logistics that those health restrictions assumed. At that moment, this loyalty attitude was not matched. In an electionist attitude, the PSdeG used those mayors to campaign against the president of the Galician Union, accusing him of intending to vote on the neighbors in a situation of insecurity. It was at that time that Mr. Caballero and you, Mr. Torrado, defended that voting in July was a lottery, and that the best was to wait for September. Fortunately, the president of the board paid attention to health reports rather than to the PSdeG and its mayors in Galicia. And Galicia was able to vote safely. [[Applause]] However, the municipalities are not responsible for the actions of certain mayors, and the Union has decided to maintain this spirit of collaboration and transparency. When measures were taken in the Comarca de la Coruña, in the Comarca de Bergantiños, in the Ten, in the Lower Mine, in Pontevedra, in the Salnés and in Ourense, the Junta again held briefings with all the mayors concerned. Since I myself took office as counsel on September 7, 2020, the Health Council has held 72 meetings with mayors of the municipalities where restrictions have been applied. Every week, the Secretary General of the Council and the Director General of Health Care spends one or two full morning talking to the mayors who are under restrictive measures and resolving all their doubts. And we'll keep doing it, because it's the right thing to do. I therefore believe that there can be no reproach against the Union in its relationship of absolute will of collaboration and loyalty with mayors and mayors of the municipalities where we have to apply restrictions. Later there was also an interest on the part of mayors who were not affected by restrictions to have information that guided them on the epidemiological situation of their municipalities — obviously complementary to what health professionals have already commented on —. And, understanding this demand, last month we launched a portal that substantially increased the data offered to citizenship and the municipalities, offering, among other things, the range of incidence of each municipality. A lot of doubt about placing the cumulative incidence data. But, well, you just said that this data is relative. Imagine those of cumulative incidence as relative. You say this map does not support setting positions. I don't know if you think the objective of information in this pandemic is to establish a sort of ranking or competition between municipalities. Of course, it's not the goal of the Galician Union, nor do we believe it should be anyone's. It also says it's not possible to establish evolutions, which is not real, because every day we see in the media information on which municipalities move from red to orange or vice versa. However, we understand that this information can be improved, of course. And we'll get better. And that's why in the next few days, after the Clinical Committee endorsed it yesterday, we'll start publishing a new format on the web, increasing the concretion on the number of cases and the cumulative incidence of each municipality. And taking advantage of that change, and in view of that demand for greater realization, we will also begin to give concrete data from all those municipalities that have 10 or more positive cases. And why not under? Because we are consistent and we continue to consider it dangerous to give data that can enable individuals to be identified. That's why in the municipalities that have between 1 and 9 cases we'll continue to publish the range. And so what we are never going to do — as you have repeatedly requested from the mayor of your party — is to provide names and names of positive people. The collaboration of the municipalities is important, but the confidentiality of clinical stories is a fundamental right and it is our responsibility. It's no longer a matter of information ownership, it's a responsibility. We're not going to give the names and surnames. And if you continue to insist on that path — which is indeed very dangerous — I regret it, but there we will not be able to understand. You are critical of the fact that maps of levels of incidence offered to the municipalities and the population do not accurately predict the taking of restrictive measures because the Union takes into consideration other additional data — something that will, of course, continue to happen when we start publishing the specific number of active cases in each of them. And, in fact, that's why there is a clinical committee of 34 experts, with names and names, to study many factors and fit them into the specific circumstances of each case. If we could put the data in a map and automatically mark the municipalities where restrictions are to be taken, the clinical committee would no longer be required. Maybe that's why it was so hard to know who was on the committee to decide on the escalation in the Ministry, because if you think that a simple rule of three can solve these kinds of decisions, they don't need anyone studying each day and carefully the cases. I am proud that in Galicia decisions are not made with rules of three simple, but with weights of multiple factors and counting on the participation of health authorities on the ground — preventive medicine services, territorial headsets, the administrations of each health area — and so on. Indeed, the map of the web will never replace the clinical committee when predicting where the measures are taken, fortunately. And by the way, Mr. Torrado, neither a political colour map can decide where the measures are taken. And that's why I think you have a good opportunity to rectify your partner, the president of the Lugo Parliament, who insinuates that the Union takes the health measures according to who governs the municipalities. I think those words are an enormously unfair and also dangerous injustice. The PSOE criticized many autonomous communities who claimed that there were political criteria when the Central Government allowed certain communities — both themselves and others — to move forward in the escalation phase. Those criticisms were made about decisions by an anonymous committee of experts — that you, so advocates of transparency, refused to reveal themselves. Months later, when required by the Transparency Council, they recognized that there was no committee that had made that assessment. On the other hand, the decisions on which the 60 restricted municipalities last week made them a clinical committee of 34 members whose names are public. That's what makes a transparent government different from what it isn't. And precisely for that reason, for questioning the independence of these professionals and claiming to act with partisan criteria, it would be appropriate for the PSdEG to publicly censure Mr. Tome's statements. I hope you take this opportunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u157	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. Torrado's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u158	Thank you, President. Well, Counselor, I think it's possible that we can carry it out. Never a specific detail can explain a debate, but you argue that they do not manipulate information, that they do not use the pandemic with an electoral character — that has just defended —. And he set as an example the Cecops and the meeting with the Cecops to explain the decisions. I ask you a dichotomous question: Do you know if the last meeting of Cecop was before it was after July 12th? I'll give him a hint, then he didn't. It's just that we could end up here. He started here by giving an explanation and saying, "How are we going to use the pandemic and the information if we're giving explanations to Cecop?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh And last July 12 they stopped gathering him. Pick up your argument a little bit there. You tell me you're coming from the Interterritorial Council and regret that some information that was shared there had been the Chain being half an hour before. I share it, I'd be upset in your position too. That never happens in Galicia, eh! No, it doesn't usually happen, it doesn't usually happen that it has the Ser Chain. You don't usually pass that, you never filter the information here. In fact, it matches. There are journalists who publish and, by chance, they always agree. I always think it's a great journalistic work. I also say that sometimes some things are told. But I'm sure you're right to complain, and I think you do. And I understand you'd complain at the Interterritorial Council. I imagine it happens here on other occasions, but I guess you won't come here to have a debate about filtration of information to the media. Anyway, I guess not, let's go! You say you don't share the idea of giving specific data below 10 contagions. Right, we shared it. If no one talks about it, and it's okay! What we say is that if criteria are to be used to make decisions — not even say that all criteria must be so public all day long — if they know the criteria. Because it's very difficult to share a decision and the municipalities execute it, because in the end it's the ones that have to be pending that local police -- where they exist -- can be controlling, and that's where licenses have to be subject to some variation, where in case they have to open lines of help they have to do it -- with autonomous and small businesses. In all that the municipalities do, in all that, it is good that they understand themselves — or at least they know — on the basis of which criteria they will be made. Of course, decisions have to be made where they have to be, and the information has to be born and be primarily where it has to be. What we move is that criteria are shared, because if not, what difference does that make from absolutely arbitrary decisions? Nothing, because no one can know if they are. If you really came here to discuss a moment ago an official data from the Town Council of Cervo — which I think was what was discussed here — when the official data published by Junta say something! - unless they have different data or have data that they do not share with others. And it comes to me with what I criticize the president of the Lugo Parliament, what I have the best of opinions, the best of opinions. Counsellor, if you want to do a little bit of what's going on with some mayors and what they say -- and we cover up the mayor's political color. But we ask ourselves: if they complain so much and they all complain, aren't they sharing the information? Because everybody complains, eh! And it is true that you should not contribute — and they do well in that part to not contribute — to mark and label individually, but rather to help citizens know what's going on. Because there's a lot of disappointment in people who don't understand why their bar is closed right now and there might be one that might be open -- or some business that if I mention them again, thank some of the honourable Members. They just don't understand. And so it's important to have criteria, because if we don't, what we're all still thinking is that you're, being caught up in some other people's decisions — because always decisions are others' decisions and it's someone's fault — they make decisions like this, which gives them the way they're coming. And that can't be, because it's not only making the right decisions, that nobody has the magic vein to always succeed — no one! — it's not about making the right decisions but about having the legitimacy of being able to make them and the social validity of being able to take them because someone is proving that there are at least criteria. You can argue with the criteria, but it's like an arbitrator's been pitting penalties all day, and to some of them he's being penalized on one side and the other, on the other hand, don't pit them on the other. And that, look, we footballers argue that they always do it to Real Madrid. But I'm sure this, Counselor, can't happen in the public management of a government. [[Murmurs.]] He passes, he passes. This Government does this, it uses information in a biased manner. And all because there's someone who wants to use the information to feel more handsome, smarter and taller. And then, when there's a counselor who wants to process the information more correctly, whatever happens. Because he hasn't explained to me yet: if it wasn't possible to tell how many trackers there are, why today can we tell that there are 700?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u159	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u160	Who was wrong in that process, Counselor? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u161	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Close the interrogation. Counsellor of Health.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u162	Mr. Torrado, with regard to Cecop's question he was starting with, I think the justification is quite clear. In June, in July, in August and September, he hardly met at Cecop because probably the situation we had didn't need that meeting. By the way, I think you're about to get together soon. By insisting on the subject of information, we — as I say — always defend — and I have just said it right now — that the criteria for placing restrictions on a council are not only the number of cases — I believe that we agree with that. There are many other factors. There are objective factors, such as the impact accumulated at 7, to 14, to 65... well, there's no more to read the Ministry of Health document we agreed a few weeks ago on the Interterritorial Council, after precisely that the Ministry intends to make a document of three basic rules. We told him we didn't want three basic rules, there was a lot of information and wealthier. Now we have eight indicators with certain nuances, and it also says the document itself that is a reference and that each autonomous community makes the decisions. And besides that we insist and defend the fundamental work of the people on the ground. When a person appreciates making decisions in a council — I will not put examples — at that meeting of the Clinical Committee — that is held twice in the week and that he is practically following it every day — he is worth the opinion of the territorial heads — that I think it is necessary to explain permanently what the territorial heads are doing because they do not seem to know their role either. Territorial heads often know the cases, names and names of all outbreaks. And, above all, they trace those cases. And they're the ones who know exactly if a case has traceability or doesn't have it. That is a fundamental parameter for making decisions. We can have a municipality with 20 cases traced or a municipality with 3 cases without traceability. It's much more dangerous for the county of 3 cases without traceability; therefore, that information is not in any command frame, but there, in physical presence or by telematic means, territorial bosses think and make recommendations. Secondly, on preventive medical services in the health areas. When there's a outbreak, we're sometimes lucky that it doesn't happen in a family doctor's cup but it affects several coupons or several health centers, and sometimes even several health areas. So preventive medicine services — which sometimes have health workers — also participate in this decision and provide information they consider appropriate to make that decision. And finally, a fundamental fact also in making decisions — and it has been demonstrated in the health area of Ourense — is the health care situation — as we are in UCI beds and as we are in hospital beds. That whole set is what makes them take action. That, Mr. Torrado, it's impossible for you to be on a website, neither in a command box nor absolutely anywhere, because it's objective and subjective information. And it must be like that. That's why we gather together, value closely and against all situations, analyze by the child, bring information to everyone's attention, and take the decision. Should the mayors, perhaps, be there? I doubt it, because not all the mayors of Galicia can be in that decision-making. What we do -- I just said a moment ago -- from the first case in the Navy and even today in the cases we are now following, is that, when this situation happens, the mayors are informed on time. I repeat, 72 meetings have been held since I've been here and all those from behind. Today morning — I repeat — I spoke to two mayors who have no limitations but who at yesterday's meeting could be deduced from the subjective data I have just commented on the need or convenience of action in the coming days. Those mayors were immediately called today in the morning and informed them of this. Of the 60 municipalities last week, it was called one by one to all mayors. I called twelve of them and gave them information. And we had the meeting last Thursday, at which all the data they demanded were perfectly transferred. So, in this particular case, in the information to the mayors about why the measures are taken to explain them to the coffee shop of their people, because I don't understand where the problem is. Because really the information, as I say, is being given on time. And mayors who have no restrictions and who want to know the cases have had them for a month, and they're going to have even more detailed information. So, Mr. Torrado, it's not an information problem or the use of information with I don't know what interests, as you said. Information is moved, first, to health care workers who have to make health decisions and handle cases; secondly, to people who make epidemiological decisions; and thirdly, when measures are taken, to the appropriate mayors. So, Mr. Torrado, I'm sorry to tell you that the information that the Galician Council transmits to the municipalities is loyal and transparent. And it's still going to be like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u163	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Da Maria do Carme González Iglesias and two other members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the policy of the Government of Galicia in relation to the impact of the covid-19 on self-employed
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u164	Whenever you want, Mr. Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u165	President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Since the beginning of the pandemic, the BNG has shown political and institutional responsibility and loyalty by supporting the health measures taken by the Central Government and the Galician Union. For us the most important thing was and it is still people's health. And I think we've held a constructive and responsible political position during these months of pandemic. But with the passage of months the necessary health measures — restrictions, in many cases, of time and activity — were not accompanied by effective economic measures by the Union which had a real impact on the sectors to which they were directed. So, as far as autonomy is concerned, the aid measures adopted by the Union were insufficient. And in many cases they had a more pyrotechnic effect than real impact. Since the BNG, from the beginning of the political course, we have held meetings with the various sectors of Galician society to obtain from a clear and real source a clear vision of what their situation was at that time, how they valued the actions of the Government of the Union and of which they were for those sectors the measures that had to be taken to at least alleviate the situation caused by the coward-19 and thus resist. At those meetings we also heard the representatives of the country's main autonomous associations, and the panorama they conveyed to us was devastating. By September 2020, there were more than 207,000 self-employed people in Galicia. The National Federation of Autonomous Workers Associations, ATA, in its September 2020 membership report, noted the negative trend in membership. From September 2019 to September 2020, membership was lowered by 2,317 autonomouss. But from August 2020 to September 2020, there were 844 casualties in relation to these 2,317 annual accounts; that is, in a single month, 36.4% of annual membership reductions were produced. And by sectors they observed how the declines affected especially the hospitality sector, which leads this sad ranking, followed by trade and agriculture. If we do a simple exercise to supersede these negative membership data with the temporary space where the Union has adopted aid measures to the sector, it is clear that these measures have not been effective and have prevented the destruction of self-employment. Statistics are necessary, and sometimes interpreted honestly, they are enlightening. But these are numbers, they're cold, they have no face and they don't transmit the powerlessness and frustration of a sector, that of the autonomous, which today is shown to be desperate and tired; tired because the measures implemented by the Board so far, the real ones, the ones that are published in the CEO and which are the ones that produce effects and can solve the problems, are clearly insufficient. Thus, for example, the Self-Employment Cheque included aid for logistics and prevention costs derived from covid, and which, in the words of the representatives of the sector — including associations such as ATA or Agtamar — constituted a failure to be quantitatively insufficient and because they did not come close to those who would be the recipients, in this case the autonomous sector. There was also a plan to reactivate culture and tourism, already announced in April, which was sold as a bailout for the sectors to which it was addressed and which included certain economic measures directed at pemes and autonomous, such as the accommodating of the depreciation quotas and interest rates of loans from Igape and XesGalice, or the possibility of new loans with interest taken by the Union. And it's okay. But the self-employed in the sector didn't come to them in mass, no. And why? Because it doesn't stop being a credit and it has to be paid. Self-employed people have been reluctant to apply for these credits because the reactivation plan has not given their recipients confidence. Self-employed people do not see the continuity of their business clearly and, if they apply for those credits, they would have a lot of trouble returning the funded amount. Having on the horizon the closure of your business and continuing to pay that credit after the closure didn't seem very good to them. And I think that none of us here would look like it either. Another constant criticism of the self-employed was and continues to be that the plan did not contain a single line of direct aid to cover current costs — rent, fees, maintenance and cleaning costs — and direct aid lines that we have repeatedly called for by the BNG in this Parliament. To this day, the response from Together was not to do anything about it. Well, there's been a transaction, the PP has done a little of our initiative on 4 November, in Commission 6th, also supported by the PSOE Parliamentary Group, in which we urged the Board to take these measures related to direct aid. But, of course, they had already scheduled meetings in this case with the self-employed sector, with the hospitality and the tourism cluster, to carry out the rescue plan in some way. And it wasn't very logical to get to that meeting by voting against such an initiative. But there wasn't a single line of deep-seated direct aids lost to the autonomous in eight months of pandemic, with total or partial restrictions on activity. And that's despite the fact that in other countries they're already on the second direct aid plan. A sector of 22,000 without one direct aid in eight months! Bravo, of course it's management and anticipation! [[Applause]] On 21 October this year, they announced — I repeat, they announced — a rescue plan to help the economic activity of self-employed and microenterprises, 230 days after the start of activity restrictions! Allow me the expression, but go papo, you big popo! With regard to these measures, following the announcement of the rescue plan, at a meeting of this parliamentary group with representatives of different autonomous associations, we were told that the aid, even if necessary, was insufficient. And they understood that a much more ambitious rescue plan was needed not only in the quantitative but in the structure of the plan itself, and must be done by sectors and by subsectors, given the diversity and the different degree of impact by the pandemic of the members of the sector. And they're not right, because given the different situations, they need answers adapted to each subsector. Logically this does much more work, but really, to make the measures effective, it was what was needed. And the Board didn't. These associations told us that these aids, by generics and the requirements required to be able to access them, did not have the impact that the sector demands, and that they left out lines of business associated with tourism, such as travel agencies, tour guides, suppliers and distributors of the tourism sector or shops. Or they also ignored the small autonomous tourism partners, such as photographers or event organizers, for example. And they also ignored the children's leisure autonomy, without any activity since March, despite the fact that they were able to open in June — logically with which many birthdays are falling, they haven't celebrated themselves. Nor did they get help to the self-employed in regulated education, and Junta has forgotten these aids and their requirements of the particular situation of the self-employed who were down by IT, or of the assimilated, such as the self-contained by the coward, or the self-contained with ordinary retirement age. And what political reading can we do about all this? That the Union, concerning self-employment, which is so diverse and so important in our economy, has once again fallen short of forecast. And that lack of foresight has much to do with the fact that they were unable to monitor the reality of the sector. But, of course, doing this requires listening to autonomy. And you would have meetings with the sector -- not this week, before, but at those meetings of course they haven't listened to anything about what the sector was telling them. The evidence is that, seven months after the declaration of the state of alarm, it is now when they have sat seriously with the Tourism Cluster and with 12 hospitality associations — certainly coincided with the mobilizations and protests in the hospitality sector. I really think they have a meeting today. Listen to the sector, please listen to this sector! Because, if they don't listen to it, they can take generic and improvised measures again, which leads to their effectiveness. In the reactivation commission on November 4, the president of the Tourism Cluster did a cross-sectional and realistic analysis, and he said textually that the sector was clinically dead. In that appearance he launched a desperate SOS, in an honest speech and no shopping either with the Board or with the State. Perhaps, only perhaps, the mobilization of the hospitality sector and that so little domesticated attendance provided the meetings that they hold today with these sectors. Now, after eight months of the onset of the pandemic, they're still implementing the rescue plan announced to bomb and dish just a few days ago, when what they claim from the sector and for several months now are powerful and immediate measures. Today, the self-employed continue to consider the articulated aids as insufficient and are aware that in other territories that amount is much higher. Euskadi, for example — with a third of the Greek establishments — fixed the aid at EUR 45 million and announced that the sector also needs further measures. Because not listening has a problem, that is, it means that the measures taken so far are insufficient and are late for many and many. Two thousand family businesses have already closed down in Galicia. The vast majority of the closures are small settlements on the street; above all shops of private cultural activity, hairdressing and travel agencies. And, of course, the failure of the board's help is shown graphically in the hunger queues. Hundreds of gales and gales line up in the cheap kitchens to receive a daily food bag. And we don't say that. Pedro Pereira, provincial president of the Pontevedra Food Bank, makes a very clear analysis: "We're used to seeing the so-called poor people living on the street, but the kind of people who had the fixed life is the one who went out totally messed up, and it's going up." It also indicates that they come from the most diverse sectors, but above all from the hostess and the self-employed. The tails of hunger reproduce in all the cities of Galicia. This is demolition, demolition! I don't think there's a more graphic picture of the shortage of joint aids in this sector than those hunger queues. And those tips, for many Germans and Greeks, if they come...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u166	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u167	...—I'm done, Your Honor—they're late, too late. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u168	Thank you, Mr. Pérez. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Reply by the Employment and Equality Counsellor, Ms. Maria Jesús Lorenzana Somoza.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u169	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Well, the Galician board of course is fully aware of the business fabric that supports the economy of our community. More than 95% of Galicia's business fabric consists of autonomous and micro-enterprises. I can assure you that since the government took possession of the government in September, it hasn't spent a single day without us being on the agenda of their needs and in contact with the self-employed and social dialogue in Galicia. All of them, both autonomous and micro-enterprises, regardless of the sector of activity to which they are engaged, deserve a plan with accurate support to deal with the difficulties they have experienced in recent months. And that's why we're strengthening the Employment Agenda to mobilise more than 225 million euros. That's why we contributed to solving and anticipating ERTE by advancing 3,400 workers the benefits they were awaiting from the state. But I'm not here today to talk about these previous plans -- and already known by this House -- but I'm here to talk about the Rescue Plan for self-employed people and micro-enterprises. This plan was adopted at the Council meeting on 22 October, i.e., on the basis of your agreement, Your Honor, this House, and also on the basis of your meetings, social dialogue and autonomy. And it was complemented and expanded on November 5, also in character prior to the extension to those 60 Greek municipalities of the restrictions to the hostel. It is a plan that is actually born with the aim of supporting the German self-employed and workers so that they can maintain their jobs. It's a plan that is born with the aim of palliating the negative effects caused by the pandemic and of boosting recovery and ensuring the stability of businesses that are most affected. I will therefore tell you what the plan actually consists of. The plan has three lines of help which will be distributed in two grant orders. One line of help is for autonomous people, for self-employed people, regardless of whether or not they are employed; and there are two other lines that will come out in a single grant order, one is for micro-enterprises or self-employed people who have employees, and another, the second one, which complements the previous one, and specifically for the hospitality sector that has closure restrictions since October. I'll explain each of the lines I refer to. The first line of the plan, the line for self-employed and self-employed workers, consists of an aid of 1,200 euros for any self-employed or self-employed, whether or not it counts with staff, but which it is only satisfied that the State administration has recognized the ordinary or extraordinary provision for cessation of activity, provided for in Royal Decree No. 30/2020 of September. You said that we don't differentiate activities, that we don't speak in social dialogue, that we don't talk to autonomy. This line of self-employed people, who know all of them, who know the German trade unions and business organisations — since they have already submitted the order to the report of the Galego Labour Relations Council — has a specific line that, instead of EUR 1,200, is worth 2,000 euros for the sectors you referred to — sectors such as travel agencies, night leisure, such as taxi transport, such as trade in fairs. And it counts precisely with a specific line because it was transferred by the Bureau of the Self, by the three Associations of Autonomouss of Galicia, which specifically proposed the activities that have to be included. All and each of the specially paralysed activities that go on the specific line of EUR 2,000 have been treated, negotiated and transferred by autonomous associations and the Galician social dialogue. They did not depart exclusively from the German Government. The second order, as I tell you, is an order that has two lines of grants. One line is for micro-enterprises and self-employed people with staff. This line consists of a subsidy of 4,000 or 5,000 euros depending on the case. The ordinary line — by calling it in some way — is EUR 4,000, and is for all self-employed or for all micro-enterprises with staff employed in their positions, who had at some time since the declaration of alarm status an ERTE — does not have to be currently active ERTE — and which contains an average billing down — compared to the 2019 exercise in the first three quarters of the year 2020 — equal to or greater than 50%. And, likewise, this line of help carries specific help for especially paralyzed sectors. Instead of 4,000, it will be EUR 5,000 — for the same sectors as I have just mentioned, for the self-employed. These two lines of aid are the ones that were actually adopted at the Council meeting on 22 October, but later the decision was taken by the Government of Greece, which you already know, and as a result of the decision of the clinical committee, to close the hostel — fundamentally in 60 municipalities in Galicia — was taken. That is why, and prior to the effectiveness of these new restrictions, that is, on November 5, the plan was completed with a specific line for the hospitality—plan that already existed and that could benefit from the hospitality. This specific line — which, as I say to you, is exclusively for the hostel in the municipalities concerned — is automatic, that is to say, it will be granted to all and every one of the establishments of the hostel, including all of the Horeca canal — hotels, cafes, restaurants and bars — simply because they are in a municipality that is specifically closed, and by the Autonomic Administration. These are aids that in an initial approach — because we are still negotiating — will consist of EUR 1,000 per month or, if it is a fraction, in the corresponding instalment. And for those establishments that contain more than 10 workers the aid will increase by 500 euros per month. According to this, and for the hospitality sector, aid could, as the case may be, reach from 2,200 to a maximum of 7,200 euros. As I'm telling you, this is a rescue plan that already reaches a budget allocation of EUR 79 million, from which you can benefit as many as 30,000 autonomous and 10,000 micro-enterprises in our community. This plan also reaches the Greeks and the Greeks by the hand — as I told them — of the social and economic partners who care for the collective interests of those who have suffered a greater impact. It's a plan we've been working on, since your approval, all the agents involved to be able to get it forward as soon as possible, and so that they can predictably get published in the DOG this November on the two orders. We maintain a permanent contact with self-government organizations, we maintain a permanent contact with organizations represented in the Galician social dialogue. Not to mention this continuous contact and transfer of messages, documents, between each of the people on my management team and each of the representatives at these tables I'm speaking of, indeed, we've met twice formally at the Self-Employment Bureau, three times already at the social dialogue tables, and we've also held meetings with the tourism cluster and with the hospitality associations, among others. The result of this can already be said, as I also told you, that the self-help order has been submitted to the report of the Galician Labour Relations Council and will be published in the coming days. Even so, we found ourselves finalizing and negotiating the drafting of the text of the other order. I would also like to add that we consider it essential that the granting of such aid be an axillary grant, that it be a simple concession. That's why the only requirement that applicants are going to have is a responsible statement. And then, once you have entered the beneficiary's account the amount corresponding to the grant, it will be the Employment and Equality Council which will make the subsequent verification that the declaration actually corresponds to the actual facts. This plan responds to the demands of the sector, who confirms it; because it is commended that it is one of the first aids in the style that a public administration devotes to the lost funds. I have here, and I make it available to your lordships, a report on all the aid to the hospitality sector of all the autonomous communities. Cataluña alone, in fact, has published help. And the aid in Catalonia is aid in which every bar, every restaurant, has to submit the bills corresponding to the expenses so that, with those bills, you can transfer the amount of the subsidy to it. The other autonomous communities either have no help or, if they have it, they just have it announced or are under study. Well, we need the sum of all, from local administrations and Members to self-government, state government, European bodies, trade unions, political parties, associations and other social agents. That everyone, as far as possible, contributes to what can bring benefits to this society in this time of pandemic. We, the Galician Councillor for Employment and Equality, will continue to work with social agents and public institutions to promote active employment policies, to boost quality training, to economic, technological and digital transformation of the Galician business fabric, to fight for equal opportunities between men and women and to promote the work of the most disadvantaged groups; and, of course, as a primary work at this time, in the maintenance of employment, in the maintenance of accompaniment to self-employed workers and microenterprises in Galicia. And, Your Honor, the answer is yes. The Greek Government is very aware of the difficulties that workers and workers are experiencing on their own, and that's why it's accelerating and developing these orders with direct and deep-lost aids, with agile and simple processing, to the businesses that are most suffering. These aids, of course, are compatible and complement those of the State, like those of any other public administration. They are compatible aids, all of them, both with each other and with other qualified from the various departments of the Galician Union aimed at sectors most affected by these limitations; for example, with the aid you have processed and published the first Vice-Presidentship in connection with the payment of rentals for nighttime leisure — EUR 2 million in aid to these 79 million euros that go along with this plan that I have just announced to them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u170	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u171	Well, for any other doubt, I'll be at your disposal on the next shift. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u172	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. Pérez's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u173	Thank you, President. Eight months, it took eight months until you announced the rescue plan for, in this case, autonomouss. Eight months! Life for Joining begins this month. Unfortunately for many autonomous people in this country, there's no life anymore because they're already closed. [[Applause]] And we, Your Honor, also meet with the sector. We've had different meetings with the sector over these months. Ascega, Galician Entrepreneurs' Association: "The political leaders of public administrations are responsible for the death of the host sector and we demand compensation." These are press releases early this month: "The decisions taken in the last few weeks take us all to close in the short and medium term. We're not part of the problem, we're part of the solution, and the aids have to be agile, direct and sufficient. Either there are solutions or we're dead." "They demand a rescue fund to compensate the hosts and other sectors, and they reproach the announcement by the President of Galician Union as patchwork." —I am eating because, of course, it is an expression that is not mine — "We laugh." And they consider aid that can reach up to 7,000 euros as insufficient. The president of the Youth Business Association of the Coruña, Miguel Miragaya, has a global vision and says, "Our hostage partners, travel agencies, business related to shows and events don't just start, there's no work and all are expenses." He also says, "The rescue formulas must be different depending on the sector." César Ballesteros, president of the Federation of Business Enterprises of Pontevedra: "You are obliged to close by law, but you still have expenses. All taxes and taxes are designed for a normal billing, but with the fall of the market it's impossible." ATA, Association of Self-Employers: "They took time-consuming solutions thinking that this crisis would last months and that everything would start normally. And that in many sectors didn't happen. We believe people will have a lot of problems to return the funding they asked to survive." But besides the associations -- these are all press clippings that I have no problem with facilitating them if you consider it timely -- they're from the beginning of this month -- apart from this, apart from the associations, people with names and faces have also spoken, and they're also going out in the press. Anne Belén, from the Coruña, cooks at a restaurant and with her husband working as a waitress: We earn a total of 715 euros a month, but 400 euros already costs us rent; and, with what remains, eats, you see and wash your clothes." Pilar, The Coruña, "worked all his life cleaning doors or waitresses, but his illusions and spirits drowned her in despair"—well, this puts it in the newspaper, logically— "all went to the virus's trash bin." José Antonio, transporter: "I only see talk of the politicians. This time has shown that at the time of truth you have to fix yourself." Paula, autonomous with a small shoe shop, reduced her orders to buy the winter collection, because you can't put paid merchandise in the store without knowing if you're going to be able to sell." These statements — as I say — are all collected from the press. "The response of the Union to the consequences of the pandemic in the autonomous sector is summed up in the fact that the aid articulated by the Union is insufficient today, and they have been insufficient. This is directly caused by the lack of forecasting and monitoring of the social and economic reality of this country, and in particular this sector." "They haven't heard in eight months the sectors most hit by the consequences of the coward-19, and that of the self-employed is one of those sectors that suffer day by day since the declaration of the alarm state. And if they don't listen to them, they won't match the measures they're taking. The same autonomy indicates that the measures adopted so far are patchwork", and marketing — although it is my harvest — is. Listen and act. Since they haven't done it in eight months, do it now. Since they're having meetings, please listen to the sector. On requests from the sector and what you just said here, we know perfectly well that some of your requests did take them into account. Another example of the Council's support that has been made manifest by the sector is that these aids constitute a generic response, when they are essential help and rescue plans by sectors. Another eva which has had and has serious consequences is the lack of immediacy in the response of the Board to the unrelenting situation of thousands of self-sufficients, which means that the aid that may come, if they arrive, will be late for many Greeks and Greeks. Every day that passes closes a business, a business that gives support to several families and generates wealth. If we allow the business fabric to fall into thousands of small family businesses, the situation will be further sharpened. What is the outcome of those small self-employed between 45 and 55 years of age — who are the majority — who have always been working in the family business? And finally, another "debt" in the action of the Board is, today, the lack of direct aid for current expenses that are due and due during these eight months, nothing more and nothing less!, regardless of whether the business has activity or is restricted." Now they meet with the sector, and I really am delighted that it is. But now what we need is for you to listen to it and take immediate action, because otherwise the sector in this case will not stand up. And that, of course, I don't think that this government can afford it, nor can it allow it to be allowed by Greek society. Nothing else, Mrs. Lorenzana Somoza.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. Pérez López. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] You have the floor to Mrs. Employment and Equality Counsellor, Mrs. Lorenzana Somoza.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u175	Thank you, Vice President. Well, I take the word again to clarify several of the points you comment on again, because surely you didn't understand them as I expected. The Galician Union will take out two orders with three lines of help, which are direct, agile aids in its processing and are completely lost. And these are aids, of course, for current expenses. These grants may therefore be requested with minimum requirements. They will have easy requests as well as quick release and subsequent resolution. I think the fact that a plan like this develops and sees the light in such a short time gives good, but good, shows the dedication behind it. Because this plan doesn't develop and it doesn't dialogue with sectors in a few days. So I think that what you're talking about is the lateness of the Autonomic Administration then refers to the seventeen autonomic administrations, which are late in the management of these aids. Because I'm telling you again that there is no single administration -- except Catalonia, and they're neither axile nor fast -- that today they have direct and exclusive help for the hostel. I repeat again that they are aids that are complementary to those of the State, which are complementary to those of any administration. They're compatible and they're cumulative. And they're not generic aids. They are aids adapted to the sectors, they are aids adapted to the particularly paralysed sectors, they are aids that are complemented for the housing sector in the municipalities that have been closed and they are aids that are directed to the most affected — guaranteed by the fact that there is a minimum of 50% invoicing loss compared to the 2019 exercise. As is said in today's press, the state will indeed also support the host sector, but will support it with the aid it has already had, with the aid or with the provision for the cessation of self-employed activity. And he draws attention that he keeps insisting on 75% of losses, when, as I say, Junta is already negotiating with the sectors, he's already aquilated with the sectors, that the average billing loss of the sectors in crisis is around 50%. And that's not because we know it from the Employment Council, but because you've already talked to each of the sectors, or to the associations that represent them. On the other hand, the State does not generally allow the provision of cessation of activity to be compatible; for example, with the fact that the bar or restaurant serves home food. The help of the Union — which I did not say in the first intervention — is absolutely compatible. We understand that, from the moment they're in a closed county, it's worth the help of the bar, restaurant or hotel regardless of whether it serves home food. I will not come to value the economic account that is being announced in some and other autonomous communities, because I agree that the credits are limited. But, of course, I don't think it's comparable to the investment that the Galician Union is making, of almost 80 million euros, that it's investing in other autonomous communities. I also ask the BNG to make comparisons, please, that they be realistic, because, on the part of its spokesperson, they compare the aid being given by the German State to those of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. And, man, I don't think this is serious. And I think this is alarming citizens — who are already worried — in a way that is not very loyal to the Greeks and the Greeks. I would also like you to inform him of the fact that his spokesperson also demanded a rescue plan for self-government and micro-enterprises on the very next day that the Council of Galicia approved the plan for self-government and micro-enterprises. The Employment and Equality Council, like the rest of my colleagues and my government colleagues, is fully aware of the economic sectors that have been most affected by health legislation, and therefore we spend the time to establish, together with the main social agents, which we included as especially paralyzed. As I've already told you, there have been many meetings and calls in all these weeks to come up with a plan that suits the demands of all those involved. Credit is indeed limited, resources are limited — those of this administration and those of all — and health measures are essential. Now, with social dialogue, with an exchange of views, with the participation of all and all, I am sure that we will be able to reach the economic sectors most impacted by the pandemic and as many as possible affected. Among the goals we pursue above all with our actions is to provide immediate liquidity to businesses and thus maintain employment, which does not destroy employment. But, of course, we cannot ourselves, so we ask the central government to extend the processing of the ERAs that are active, and that the extension at the same time that extended the alarm state.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u176	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u177	Because the state of alarm reaches until May 9th and the uncertainty today is that ERTE is only active and vigilant until January 31st. We also thank and congratulate from here all the local administrations of Galicia, who have approved plans for self-government and micro-enterprises, and who, as I say, are complemented by the Council of Galicia. We also request and encourage some council of a great city that has not done so to join the other cities, the other big cities and the other members of the autonomous community. Make it clear, ladies and gentlemen, that the Greeks and the Greeks can continue to count on the support of the Galician Union and that the autonomous and micro-enterprises can continue to count on the commitment of the Employment Council that we will continue to work on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u178	Thank you very much, Counselor. Now we move on to the next item on the agenda, which are the questions to the Government. First, 8.1. Question by Dr. Pablo Arangüena Fernández and Patricia Otero Rodríguez, G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the recognition by the Government of the commitment of the central government to meet a historical demand of the Galician society as the lowering of the charges of the AP-9 motorway
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u179	To put the question, you have the floor Mr. Aranguena Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u180	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, our question is whether the Government of Greece recognizes the commitment of the Government of the State to meet a collective demand of the Greek society as the reduction in the rates of AP-9. Specifically, Counsellor, the State Budget Project envisages 55 million that the Government proposes to set aside the next year to reduce what the Welsh drivers pay for using their main communication artery, which is the AP-9, to which it must add a share of 8.2 million to continue maintaining the freeness of the fees of Vigo-The Morrazo and The Coruña-The Barcala sections, which have been free for users since 2006 the Government of Emilio Pérez Touriño and a socialist government in Spain have reached that agreement. More than 60 million in total is going to AP-9 this year. And allow me to make some history. In 2000, the Government of José María Aznar extended the concession of AP-9 until 2048 — with Fraga in the Union and Feijó in the Central Government — an extension of nothing but twenty-five years — as I say, until 2048. That was the gift of Mr. Aznar and the PP to the Greek society, an extension of twenty-five years. And, unlike the Welsh highway, the concessions of three highways that were built at the same time that AP-9 ended in 2019, and several more will do in the coming years. By the way, it was in 2003, with Feijóo as councillor of the Territory and with a government of the PP, Mr. Aznar, in Madrid, when the National Highway Company was privatized, with several motorway concessions, including AP-9, which ended in the hands of foreign capital funds. It is known that the PSdEG, as the only social democratic formation in this House, has the essential value of solidarity between people and, as a result, solidarity between territories — because without one cannot exist the other —. And the PP, at best, is a conservative party, but it's certainly a neoliberal party, which means ideologically reactive to solidarity as a vector of change between people and territories. The case is that it is a socialist government that puts the means to pay off a pending state subject with Galicia, a debt incurred by Mr Aznar — with Galicia's PP applauding — who hypothesized Galicia's main channel of communication for the last 20 years. And it had to be also in 2006 a socialist government in the Union and a socialist government in the state that eliminated the toll of La Coruña-La Barcala and the toll of Vigo-O Morrazo. With these members, do they recognize the commitment of the Government of the State or will they continue to spread the absolute fallacy that are the worst budgets for Galicia, when they are the social most in history, with an increase in social spending of 10.3%...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u181	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u182	...that it can only benefit Galicia, and that it is above the average of the State on direct investment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u183	Thank you very much, Mr. Aranguena. I ask the technicians who have the time on the screen, who on this occasion Mr. Orange didn't have it. Thank you very much. Mr. Vázquez Mourelle has the floor now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u184	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, I don't think you should congratulate the Socialist Party on this sudden interest in recovering the concern for AP-9, for such an important matter, when in the last two years you've been ruling Pedro Sanchez you've been missing. They ceased to be fully interested in AP-9 during the past two and a half years of Pedro Sánchez's rule, because when the Board — it is curious, yes — demanded the release of the toll in Roundola, the Socialist Party of Galicia was silent. And also, when Junta sent concrete, realistic and viable proposals to review those agreements — which were round business with Audasa — and to stop those impacts of the pay, the Socialist Party in Galicia shut down. And also, when we denounced the imbalance and the aggravation that the AP-9 peas by the Government of Pedro Sánchez from Galicia when we saw that other highways would eliminate or lower that toll, the Socialist Party in Galicia would shut down. And you shut up, too. And now the announcement of bonuses—they want to draw the sardine to draw their proceeds—not to them, not to them, Mr. Aranguena. The Greek public representatives must always defend the Greek interests, and this is what we understand from the Council of Galicia ever since it governs Alberto Núñez Feijóo from time to time. In 2009 Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero ruled, and we asked for the transfer of AP-9. Three years later, with the Government of the People's Party in Madrid, we continued to defend the same, we defended the same. When there were intolerable withholdings by paying the fee, we denounced it, and these restraints were fixed. With Mariano Rajoy's government, this AP-9 commission was created where we could defend the interests of the Greeks — in 2016 — the commission that gave its fruit. In January 2018 we made the explicit commitment to the release of the fee in Roundla. And that's why in March, Your Honor, with the government of Mariano Rajoy, there was already work done with the release of the toll in Round it. Yes, there was work done — we will talk about the small letter. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And, therefore, there was work done to advance towards the liberation of peas which ceased in dry when the Socialist Party of Pedro Sánchez arrived in the Government. The commission has been stopped in dry and the AP-9 fees have been released in dry. I'd like to know why he said yes twice to pay with the pockets of the Greeks the enlargement of the highway when the Seville bridge widened with the budgets. I'd like to know what they think and tell me why, when the Advisory Council says that these increases are totally null and void, you shut up. And I'd like to know how, when, and how the vigil of that bonus app is. Because there's a lot of headlines, but small letters, none. And we're interested. Meanwhile, their alternative and that of the Socialist Party is that Audasa continues to feed. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u185	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Aranguena Fernández has the floor for the replica shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u186	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I was interested in knowing if you are able — at least this time — to recognize when a major decision is made for Galicia and when there is great progress. But it turns out that they're incapable, because that would mean recognizing that it's fallacy, it's absurd and it's an insult to collective intelligence your speech from a government that mistreats Galicia and that all the evil that happens in Galicia is the fault of a central government that has been ruling for two and a half years and that has made at that time a great social effort; a social effort of which one of the great beneficiaries is Galicia, because it has more dependence on social policies than other autonomous communities. And, therefore, a government of a marked social character is intrinsically impossible to be bad for Galicia. You speak of past decisions. There have been many decisions about the motorways of Galicia in the past, but now there is one: 60 million euros in the general state budgets, 60 million euros, Counsellor. And instead, the gift you gave Galicia with your own highway was what I mentioned earlier: Mr. Aznar's gift, Mr. Fraga's and Mr. Feijóo's — because at that time he was also in Madrid — which was another twenty-five years, until the year 2048. And a two-party socialist government in the Galician Union and a socialist government in Madrid eliminated the peas that affected Vigo and Coruña — those of Morrazo and those of Barcala. Those are the facts, Counselor. From there you can deny reality, but the facts speak for themselves: 60 million euros speak decisively in favour of the Government of the State's commitment to an autonomous community. [[Applause]] And, on the other hand — I insist — the increase in the social expenditure of State budgets to which it is most beneficial is the one that depends most on it. One of the most dependent communities is Galicia. That's right, Counselor, won't you recognize him?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u187	Thank you very much, Mr. Aranguena. You have the floor, for the Government's reply, Mrs. Infrastructure and Mobility Counsellor, Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u188	Thank you, Vice President. You claim a festive valuation by me of an imprecise measure and of the worst government budgets from Spain to Galicia in the last fifteen years, the worst budgets. And you said that: 100 million euros less — and therefore a drop of 11% on the budget in 2018 -- I understand, I'm sorry. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] 6.6% of the total state. When they were in the Bipartite, they said the minimum had to be 8%. Now it's worth 6.6%. Galicia is one of the five autonomous communities that goes down. The infrastructure deficit is unquestionable, but, yes, Cataluña and Valencia are taking over in state budgets and cutting off Galicia. That's what the state's worst budgets in Galicia mean. The imbalance with the Mediterranean corridor is flagrant. That is indisputable, that criminal gap that leaves the current Government of Spain between the Atlantic corridor and the Mediterranean corridor. Not a euro for railway access to the port of Langosteira!, which is a mature project, susceptible to reconstruction funds. Not a single euro and it will expire. They don't care. On Vigo's southern exit, the general secretary of Infrastructures comes here to take a step back, like the crabs. Of course, it seems to me that the ports of Barcelona and Valencia are not equal to the Government of Spain, and it is regrettable. There are incredible absences and total forgetfulness of the big cities, the city of Coruña and the city of Vigo. Nothing from the Vigo-O Porriño highway; in relation to the AP-9-Alfonso Molina, neither; with the vial 18, neither; with the urban transformation of Vigo, nor. And ask me to applaud the assumptions that they remove from a budget pen essential infrastructure, like all that I said and the Navy highway, the Lugo-Ourense or Ponferrada-Ourense highway. And they postpone after the Xacobeo, and much beyond, Santiago-Lugo. Therefore, these absences do not cover those fireworks, of course, of an inconcreted ad in relation to the bonuses of AP-9. From AP-53 Santiago-Ourense forget, stay out. It's okay. We don't know anything about the type of travel bonuses or the type of users. Are the carriers coming in? We don't know what that means to be subject to traffic levels, which is what we're listening to. I insist: how?, when?, how much are you going to assume of casualties?, to whom are you going to benefit? Because you don't know. That is yes, it is an ad after another announcement and with alternatives — as we are used to — of the Socialist Party, and of round business of Audasa. Whenever you want, I'll commit to you the Bipartite Agreement in 2007 of Morrazo. When I want to start that round business, that unfair enrichment that you signed. Now half of what you have signed — twice — is paid. But, in any case, it's an ad, just an ad, to hide the worst budgets of the Government of Spain in Galicia. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u189	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Mr Gabriel Alén Castro and six other Members of the G.P. Most people in Galicia, about which are the benefits that bring to the student of Galicia the lower price of university enrolments in the course 2020-2021
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u190	To put the question you have the floor Mr. Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u191	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Good afternoon, Counselor. Welcome. I would like to begin by pointing out that the entire Greek university system, both the Council and universities — within each of their competences — have implemented the measures necessary to be able to take the course with the highest capacity and best quality possible. The universities are making a great effort, both in economics and in technical and human media; largely facilitated by an extraordinary approach to the Galician Union of 10.9 million euros — which adds to the 3 that had already sent to universities urgently in March—: 4.2 million for the USC, 3 million for the UDC and 3.6 million for the University of Vigo. This effort is in line with this government's commitments to the university, as demonstrated by the Multi-Year Financing Plan that the Council and the three universities have been able to agree unanimously for the period 2016-2020 — now extended. This plan has substantially improved the administration's economic approach, increasing it by 17.3 % to reach nearly 2,500 million euros in this period, which makes Galicia the third autonomous community as a percentage of university funding in relation to GDP. In the last decade the German Government has betted by placing Galicia as the community that applies the lowest university rates of the Spanish ensemble, a fact even put in value by the Spanish minister himself, Mr. Castells, who said that Galicia was the model on the subject of fees. To organize the start of the 2020-2021 course, in compliance with the relevant procedures, the Galician Board approved the Decree setting public prices for the provision of academic and administrative services in the Galician University System. This collects the fall of the public prices of the first non-activated master's license plates, freezes the grade rates for the tenth consecutive year and third grade rates of the enabling master's. For all this, the Signing Members ask you the following question in full: What benefit does the German student receive from lowering the prices of university enrolments in the course 2020-2021? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u192	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Prado. The Councillor for Culture, Education and University, Mr. Rodríguez González, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u193	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, the fact is that in this course the course has been extremely complex and extremely unpublished. The whole education system has made an organizational over effort, and it's making an economic over effort and a personal over effort. And he's also having a very high professional and personal involvement of the great teaching staff we have in Galicia — and of course also in the university field. We can conclude that, both in the university and in the rest of the education system, the course has begun and is developing with a relative or great normality, taking into account the enormous exceptionality of the specific moment in which we find ourselves. If you answer your question specifically, I think this government has always been very committed to families and to students. It always started from a maximum that I think has been proven over these years: from minute zero this government has bet that no student would stay out of the university system for economic reasons. For that he put in place and intervened in those elements that could be economic barriers to the student. Since the first year, there has been a freeze on university fees. Galicia is the autonomous community where a student pays today the same as ten years ago. The cost of a degree — a career — is the same today as ten years ago. Thereafter, the rates of the enabling masters were also frozen; that is, those that are needed to practice a profession. It's the third consecutive year. And in this course, as a novelty, there is also a download of non-qualified masters to homogenize it with the previous ones and have somehow university access, from the economic, cheaper, more accessible perspective of the Spanish ensemble. I think that's a differential fact. We have the cheapest rates, we have the most accessible access to the university system and the most equitable. And in this sense we can be proud of the work that has been developed in recent years, along with the universities, to achieve this. And we also start from a fundamental point, and we prefer that the economic resources — the money, by saying it in a very short way — are in the citizens' pockets and in the family pockets instead of taking them out in order to carry out actions by the public administration. And, in that sense, since the start of these actions in university, we have been able to save 21 million dollars on average for all university students, which has enabled, as I say, Galicia to have...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u194	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u195	...the most accessible university access system in all Spain.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodríguez. For the reply, Mr. Fernández Prado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u197	Thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor, for your explanations. You used to say "the most accessible one in Spain." I don't know if you have data comparable to the rest of the autonomous communities or the state average. And what I was talking about — I think I also took note — is 21 million euros. I don't know if you also have the data of what it means according to the average for families or for students; because, of course, it's an important amount of money placed at the disposal of society and families in Galicia. And nothing else. Very briefly, I want the animal to continue supporting the Greek university system in this increase in funding and those compensations that I think they make to universities so that this freezing doesn't mean a drop in their income. And more importantly, I don't know if you have that comparison with the rest of the communities, with the rest of Spain. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u198	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Prado. For the Government's reply, Mr. Rodríguez González has the floor of the Councillor for Culture, Education and University.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u199	In short, Mr President, we said that our premise was to allow economic resources to remain in the citizens' pockets in front of other governments who are betting on the contrary. And, as you asked us for comparative examples, I'm going to put one that I think can be extrapolated to any degree or university career. For example, a medical student in Galicia pays around 1,150 euros for her license plate, 1,150 euros. In Catalonia or Madrid they pay triple. I believe that this is a measure of equity and a measure of accessibility to the highly important university system and, as I said before, we have long been the only autonomous community in Spain which makes a constant paralysis, a constant decrease, of university rates. Certainly, this policy, which has remained constant since 2009, has led even Minister Manuel Castells, one of the most reasonable statements he has made — perhaps the only one — to put Galicia as an example in the field of university enrolment. Galicia, in its set of Spain and its degree level, has the second lowest prices in Spain. They're only more accessible in Canary Islands, but with a difference: we've been having it for ten years while Canary Islands has been doing it for very little time. In non-qualified masters we have the cheapest prices in Spain, the first in Spain. And in enabling masters, that is, in those that are necessary for the performance of a profession, we are the third parties — practically paired with Canary Islands and Andalusia. That is to say, we allow no student, no one, to remain on economic issues outside university studies or to be forced to give up working a future through knowledge and, in this case, university training. Obviously, the lowering of tuition costs means, in this case, a reduction in income for the university institution. But that income reduction is offset by the Galician Board through funding plans to enable university income stability and enable these institutions to go up their budgets year after year. One fact: the latest funding plan — which has just ended this year — has enabled the public budget of the universities in Greece, the university system, to be increased by 18%; with which we have the most equitable system, the system that over time has made it possible to maintain university rates. And, of course, with this there is a basic and fundamental objective...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u200	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u201	...that no student is outside the university system, university training, for economic reasons.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u202	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by Mr. Martín Seco García and Mrs. Maria Leticia Gallego Sanromán, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the performances that are taking place at Junta de Galicia to ensure the workload for the staff of the Siemens-Gamesa plant, in the Somozas
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u203	To put the question, Mr. Seco García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u204	Yes, thank you. Counselor, the Gamesa-Siemens factory in the Somozas is on the loose rope. And the most worrying thing is that about 300 families in the district of Ferrolterra are in danger. All this in view of the inability of his counseling and the lack of mechanisms to promote and attract industrial activity, a non-existent industry department and a worrying failure to make successful policies during the 12 years of the fall of our country's industrial sector. Since the purchase by Gamesa-Siemens of the factory of Vagos, in Portugal, the millions of investments made in their facilities and the new projects planned on the Lusa land, the jordinary uncertainties among the workers of Greece, which you see as the factory of Somozas does not receive new investments and new projects to have a secure future. Once again, we are faced with a new process of relocation of a company from Galicia to Portugal and we don't know what their advice is doing to prevent it. We're talking about an industrial plant that works for the windmill, Mr. Conde. We're not talking about energy policy, nor do energy costs have an impact on that factory. We are talking about industrial policy, where you have full competence, a factory that refers to the quality of manufacture of these products and the fulfilment of the commitments made to customers. And yet they have no insured workload beyond December of this year. At the installation of the Welsh plant they continue to manufacture an old model and no new investments appear that improve the installations in order to manufacture larger step models. The company does not respond to the continuing requirements of the works committee to form a work table that analyses the viability of the plant, which today does not find an ally in its department to make this possible — as long as until yesterday, when you finally received the company committee, it did not respond to your requests. Mr. Conde, it would be incomprehensible for a company like Siemens-Gamesa to act from behind our territory and leave without you doing anything to avoid it, with the opportunities it generates in Galicia, with the increase we will have of the installed power — which you have in your hand to authorize — with the opportunities it generates with the marine wind and its possible deployment in Galicia, and with the funds that can come from Europe for the projects in which the wind sector has an exceptional adaptation. Mr. Conde, the debate on the construction of passage in Galicia should look at how the Somozas can get back the 700 jobs I've already had and not how you can lose the current 300. Mr. Vice-President, the other day before the questions you asked the Director of the Igape were unable to say anything about the actions of his advisor to try to avoid this relocation. They simply threw, once again, balloons out saying they were waiting for what the State Government was doing with the new electric auctions; that is, once again, the policy of the ostrich. But the workers and the district of Ferrolterra can no longer wait for an agonistic situation, Mr. Count. And that's why we ask you what the performances are taking place at the Galician Union to secure the workload for Gamesa-Siemens staff in the Somozas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u205	Thank you very much, Mr. Seco. Mr. Conde López has the floor of the second vice president and councillor for Economics, Enterprise and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Martín Seco, my first words logically are of recognition and solidarity right now towards Siemens-Gamesa's workers in Somozas. We know each other well — I have had the opportunity to be with the company's own committee on many occasions — and if I can tell you that they don't deserve the treatment that the company is giving them. And in that context, of course, the Galician Union is working together with the workers, together with the unions, to identify solutions and, therefore, to give viability to a plant that we understand makes sense, that it made sense and, above all, that towards the future has all meaning from the point of view of the development of renewable energies, both in Galicia and in Spain. What if I'd ask you is a little prudence when you talk about passivity. And, above all, I would ask for a little realism. Because surely the workers want are solutions. And to find solutions we need to be realistic. To untie the wind sector of energy policy is simply to try to divert reality from how an auxiliary company works in the wind sector and, therefore, how in a territory, such as Spain and Galicia, if you can find opportunities from an industrial point of view. You know perfectly well that the Socialist Government comes late once again after three years — 2018, 2019 and 2020 — without convening any auction. And, therefore, energy policy, Mr. Seco, of course, has consequences from the point of view of industrial policy. The question we are all asking — at least from this bench — is about when the Galician Socialist Group will cease to defend the government of Pedro Sánchez and Podemos and will really defend the interests of workers in Galicia. Anyway, Mr. Seco, we're working with the company, with the company's own committee. We know perfectly well what is the solution of the Siemens-Gamesa plant, which does not go through any other objective than to combine the Government's energy policy in Madrid with the industrial policy of the Galician Union. If we work together, both the Government and the Council of Galicia, we are convinced that we will find a solution, because it is to combine the goals of energy policy with the instruments that the Council of Galicia has already made available to the company and to the workers to find that solution and to give it continuity. So we agreed to request a meeting of the Government precisely with a view to working together...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u207	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u208	...Government, Galician board and company committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u209	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Seco García has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u210	Yes, thank you, President. It is disheartening to hear it, Mr Vice-President. At the moment, where the Somozas factory has dropped its production from 9 to 7 steps weekly, where the contracts of the potential and the contracts of the ETT, where the works council of the company informs us that they fear that the redundancies will start, that the only one who has to contribute is to hold the Government of the State accountable without putting anything from the Council of Galicia — which has the competences in industrial policy — in a factory producing components that are not affected by energy policies or electric tariffs, is really discouraging. [[Applause]] Mr. Conde, I understand that they are asking the Government of the State for help, since so far it is the only one who has put on the table the political capacity of negotiation and strategy to try to maintain our industrial activity. But what do you do besides being spectators of the industrial desert where our land is becoming? Their government has two possibilities: or they propose a change to the Autonomy Statute to get rid of industrial policies -- something they do in fact -- or they reform their department, their policies and their strategy to be an instrument that generates industrial activity in our country. Because, look, you guys in 2013 changed the autonomous laws to hand over Galician wealth keys to the wind industry installers. They have given up by law the ability to link wind projects to our country's activity, and all without putting it on the alternative table to make the activity leave greater wealth among our citizens. It is you, Mr. Conde, who are incapable of maintaining industrial activity, who are unable to bring new projects, who refuse to participate and promote new sources of wealth. You're the ones who don't make Galicia an attractive pole for industrial investment. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party Government, it can't be taken photos with a couple of successful industrial projects in our country. They put solutions to families that depend on Gamesa and Somozas and don't give up looking elsewhere and looking for culprits. The workers need solutions and not guilty, and you've been elected very few dates ago for all this.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u211	Thank you very much, Mr. Seco. For the Government's reply, Mr. Conde López has the floor of the second vice president and advisor of Economics, Enterprise and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u212	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Seco, you know that Madrid is ruling the Socialist Party and Podemos, right? They could modify the electricity sector law to enable the development of renewable energy to be linked to industrial plans, right? Why don't you propose? Mr Seco, the clear energy policy that has implications for industrial policy. Because, obviously, there will be no possibility of developing an industry in this country from an energy point of view if there is no energy policy that supports it. And I repeat it again: in 2018, 2019 and 2020, no auction. That means that the auction that will be convened now won't bring workload to the wind industry in Spain until 2022. That's the reality, Mr. Seco. That's the reality. Because if there's no workload in Spain, of course, industries can't develop that work. In any case, we understand that there are opportunities for the Somozas, of course we see it. Of course there are opportunities, because we have European funds that can identify projects that can enable the viability of this plant and the rest of the auxiliary industry linked to energy policy. And, therefore, the future of Somozas necessarily goes through working together. What's the matter? What problem do you see that we work together with the Government of Spain and the Council of Galicia to defend 300 jobs? We're doing it -- although it seems like you don't like it -- with Alcoa, and it's producing results, because we're actually trying to find that solution. And it seems reasonable to us that in a company in the wind industry — which depends directly on the opportunities that can be developed towards the future in Spain, not only on auctions but on European funds — we find together the Government of Spain and the United States of Galicia an industrial solution to energy policy. This isn't a subject of looking for responsible, it's a subject of searching for solutions, which is what we're moving on. Now, to deny that energy policy decisions have no consequences is what you've been doing for a long time. They denied it to the workers of Alu Iberian, and look at Alu Iberian. They denied it to Alcoa-San Cibrao workers, who have not yet approved the statute of electro-intensive consumers. They also denied it to the bridge workers, with the possibility that they could continue. While other countries — like Germany — keep the thermal power stations in an orderly transition process, you have abruptly shut down the possibilities for the bridge power plant. Therefore, Mr. Seco, co-responsibility, which is what we are working on. It's about working together with the Government of Spain, the Union of Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u213	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u214	...and the Business Committee to find a solution to a company that is unfortunately not giving answers and is not up to the circumstances. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u215	Thank you very much, Vice President. Question by Da María Isaura Abelaras Rodríguez and three other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the mechanism provided by the Government of Greece to ensure, given the limitation of appointments to telephone care, health care for people with cerebral palsy
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u216	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Gallego Sanromán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u217	Good afternoon, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, Counselor. Since last March's alarming state, one of the most affected sectors in this pandemic context is that of care centres for people with functional diversity, being further reduced by services that have already come to all insufficient light. Health centres have limited their hours of care. Serve as an example the Navia health center in Vigo. His schedule was from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m., and now it is from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. This health center, cited as an example, served the users of APAMP, Association of People's Families with Brain Paralysis, and Alente, Association of Brain Damage, Vigo. This situation in primary care is a regression in the service for the entire population. But it especially affects people with some kind of disability, and more seriously people with cerebral palsy. It's most often impossible to recognize symptomatology and move the problem through a phone. Doctors don't move to see patients in the residences and they are forced to use hospital emergency services, with the difficulties that this entails for those people and their caregivers and their caregivers. The pandemic has brought responsibility, professionalism and goodness to the third manager's entities in the safe management of the centre. Social entities created and managed by families, and supported by the associative tissue that works from solidarity and inclusion, are a guarantee of good attention. But it's worth noting that they're social services centers, they're not health centers. They are not health centres and they always need – and more now, in this context marked by cover-19 – effective care and health care. I want, from here, to thank you, for this great work you do, to professionals and all the professionals who work with people with functional diversity. [[Applause]] Counsellor, have you thought about the Government of Wales any mechanism to guarantee health care for people with cerebral palsy in the face of the limitation that calls are supposed to them? The Galician Union should facilitate the presence of this collective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u218	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. The Health Counsellor, Mr. García Comesaña, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u219	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, Sergas is currently implementing the necessary organizational adaptations to the epidemiological situation, since it is essential at all times to adhere to the protocols of action against the cowardice of the daily activity of health centres. Health centres remain open and are safe places thanks to the necessary measures to ensure the safety of our patients and professionals. Action circuits are under ongoing review according to the epidemiological evolution of the pandemic in the community and the possible contacts of positive cases with professionals. Attention to chronicity remains a priority for the Galician Health Service. We assure you that patients with cerebral palsy, as well as their caregivers, have the same health resources available to them. And if there's any difference in the care of these people, it's nothing other than to achieve the maximum levels of safety and to the greatest extent possible avoid the risk of infection of patients considered vulnerable. In the area of primary care, home care is one of the most important forms of care and continues to develop daily without interruption. It is currently supported by the telephone consultation — since 2013 in Galicia — which is often a solution by itself and in many other cases is a complement to the presence of care, both in the health centre and in the patient's home. Right now, when a patient contactes the health center by telephone, the care provider is the one who decides whether or not the patient finally has to be seen in person. This is going on at all the centers and, in particular, at the Navia health center, which you're commenting on. In any case, attention to vulnerable groups is guaranteed in any situation, since presence consultations are activated in all health centres, and in this group the presence consultation is facilitated for pathologies that cannot be resolved through the telephone consultation, always with maximum security guarantees against the transmission of the cod. In addition, for the follow-up of chronic patients, we also count on the Telea platform — which allows monitoring and follow-up at the home of certain pathologies — and other tools, such as electronic clinical history or e-interconsults, which can incorporate images and be used to consult different specialities without the patient having to travel. In the specific case of the centers you're commenting on in your question, APAMP or Alento, we could confirm with the head of service in functions of the Navia health center that attention to these centers is being the usual. The director or head of the center communicates with the primary care center any possible situation, and the health care center professionals are moving — in this case, crossing the street, simply — to care for patients in their home format. However, these patients all have the "double A" card, which, as you know, is available and can be used at all health centers in the Galician Health Service to take that preferential attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u220	Thank you very much, Counselor. You have the word, for the reply, Mrs. Gallego Sanromán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u221	Thank you, President. Counselor, I'd like you to speak directly to the director of APAMP or to the director of Alento and tell him how they live that day, because he's not being like that. I really invite you to talk to them and tell them what it is like in the first person. Because, Counsellor, do you know what it means to limit hours in health centres and phone calls for these residential services and for the people who live in them? It means they end up in the afternoon, for example, and you have to take them to the emergency room, when in many cases you would solve it with your family doctor's pattern. It means that in phone calls — in which in most cases it is already difficult to transmit the symptoms of a patient, the more if that patient has communication difficulties or has no oral communication -- that patient should transfer that symptomatology through a third person. This is very, very complicated for this person. And it's also very difficult for the doctor to make a diagnosis without performing a patient's evaluation. It means that family doctors have stopped visiting residents who are in bed because of a disease. [[Applause]] It is necessary to assign a primary care physician to residences. These residences for people with functional diversity have only one endowment. Having a doctor would facilitate the knowledge of the health of each resident and his/her disease, and this would allow him/her to be alert to new symptoms and be much more precise in the diagnosis. People with functional diversity are always the great forgotten. Counselor, don't forget them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u222	Thank you very much, Mrs Gallego. The Secretary of Health, Mr. García Comesaña, has the floor for the Government's replica.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u223	Thank you very much. Of course, we take note of these comments. I repeat that the information we have been transferred from the health center is normal, but everything is resuscitable. Maybe what we have to do is a joint meeting of both sides. And of course I pick up that glove. I would like to stress that the presence of attention has always been maintained in all primary care centers, but because of the pandemic, this assessment of what I was talking about earlier was introduced through a telephone call — the real need for this presence consultation. This tool is available for all patients with a coupon, and in particular for those who are institutionalized, as is the case with these two residences that you comment on. It is a reasonable and prudent measure that was not exclusive of Galicia, but common to all autonomous communities. This telephone channel enables people with symptomatology compatible with covid-19 infection to be detected, facilitates early detection and decreases the risk of secondary transmission. We're living the second wave of the pandemic. Therefore, it is essential that people with compatible symptomatology do not travel through health centers, and only turn to health centers for presence care only when necessary, always ensuring the safety conditions for patients and professionals. And there's a second circumstance that affects facelessness, and it's the most important work that primary professionals are doing in the detection of asymptomatic people. They're asking for PCR tests, home follow-up to infected people and control the residences of older people and people with disabilities. In short, the consequences of the pandemic, both in the need to reduce physical contact and in these tasks that are developing professionals, are the reason for these changes in health care that patients have experienced in recent months. Ladies and gentlemen, we are living in an unprecedented and unprecedented situation that makes us have to make the best decisions, whose only goal is to reduce and eliminate the spread of this pandemic and ensure the health of all. This objective will respond to the measures we take for the progressive increase of face-to-faceness in primary, always from the highest prudence. As for what you say that teachers at these centers have a specific physician, I want to remind you that the primary care model, on the one hand, counts on the continuing care points — that they move to homes permanently, and also in Vigo, of course — and that home visits are often a tool for professionals, both doctors and primary care nurses. The residents of these centers, of course, have every right in the world to be able to benefit from this model of care, from the presence and also from the telephone, as we said. We count on the best professionals, and I will always thank them for their efforts, dedication and surrender. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u224	Thank you very much, Mr. Comesaña. Question of Da María Incarnation Amigo Díaz and six other Members of the G.P. Most popular of Galicia, on the evaluation made by the Galician Board of Development of the Cicus Assistance Plan in Galicia, launched in 2016
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u225	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Amigo Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u226	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. Counsellor, the stroke is a cerebrovascular disease that has great relevance to our society. Every year, 120,000 new cases of stroke occur in Spain and predict that this figure increases by 35% in the year 2035, according to data from the Spanish Society of Neurology, which recalls that every year about 27,000 people die from this cause. According to data from the Cerebrovascular Diseases Study Group, the Spanish Society of Neurology, 59% of patients with stroke have problems performing their daily activities, and more than 62% have mobility problems; 64% suffer pain and discomfort, and 36% perceive that their health is bad or very bad. In our autonomous community, it produces around 7,000 new cases of stroke per year, and it occupies the first place among the causes of mortality. The fact that the stroke occupies the first place between the causes of mortality in Galicia — the first in women and the second in men — and that it assumes the first cause of permanent disability in adulthood, among others, causes the stroke to occupy a relevant place in the priorities of the Health Council. The impact this pathology has on families in the professional, labor and social fields is uncommon. The figures being handled are important enough to make the health authorities view ischemic stroke as a priority health problem. And that's how you pick up the Sergas 2020 strategy. The Council of Health, of the Galician Union, with the aim of further progressing in the best attention to Greek citizenship, on July 4, 2016, presented the Greek Plan of Attention to the stroke. This plan is born with a fundamental objective of creating a network of attention to stroke throughout Galicia, managed as a unique area for the entire population of Galicia. Today, no one of the people we've visited a health or hospital facility is relieved of the cartel with the three "f" -- speaking, face and strength. And if in ourselves or someone in our environment has a change in these fields, you know that you have to call 061 to get the Ictus Code started in our community. Mr Counsellor, seeing the importance of this project, since the People's Group today we have asked you the following question: What evaluation does the Galician Board do for the development of the Pictus Assistance Plan in Galicia, launched in 2016? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u227	Thank you very much, Mrs. Friend. The Health Counsellor, Mr. García Comesaña, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u228	President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Friend. In 2016 Sergas marked the creation of a network of attention to stroke throughout Galicia, managed as a unique area — as you well said — for the entire population of Galicia. The beginning that led to its creation was to give the best attention to the stroke to the Greek citizenship where this event occurs. We created three stroke units — in the University Hospital Complex of Santiago, in the Coruña and in the Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro, in Vigo — understood as specific units of non-intensive acute care for the treatment of the patient with ictus, in which there are also interventional neuroradiology services capable of carrying out the so-called mechanical thrombectomy. In addition, we have six stroke teams in the hospitals of Ferrol, Lugo, Ourense, Pontevedra, in the Navy and in Povisa. The stroke teams are multidisciplinary groups of specialists coordinated by a neurologist or other specialist expert in stroke, who, without having a geographically defined structure, collaborate in the diagnosis and treatment of the patient with stroke and have systematic care protocols. We also work to ensure that the emergency services of the comarcal hospitals have the capacity and training needed to perform fibrinolysis in case of identifying an episode of ischemic stroke. But to achieve optimal attention, regardless of where the patient is found, we created the Ictus Care Center — called CAI — consisting of a team of neurologists expert in the management and diagnosis of the stroke, available twenty-four hours a day and three hundred sixty-five days a year, offering the patient's responsible physician support for his diagnosis and treatment through the telemedicine tool. CAI neurologists have direct access to the video conferencing of the Sergas center where the patient is found and use the electronic clinical history of Sergas — the IANUS — as an integral element of information. They can examine it in real time through a high-resolution webcam, analyze the radiological image of the patient, and make a shared decision about the therapeutic attitude to be taken with the doctor who is attending the patient. If the decision is fibrinosis, the CAI neurologist will monitor the process. Finally, we are aware that training must also reach primary care centres, and in that sense specific training actions are carried out for the staff of continuing care points, doctors and nurses. Therefore, Mrs. Friend, we believe that the development of this plan has substantially improved the care of the stroke patient in Galicia, whatever the hospital in the health network is in. For now, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u229	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the replica shift you have the word to Mrs. Amigo Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u230	Thank you very much, Counselor, for explaining to us in such a precise and clear way that the Plan strokes are developing in Galicia, a pathology that causes so much pain and suffering in our society. He made it clear that attention to the stroke is guaranteed by the creation of these three units that you told us — in Santiago, La Coruña and Vigo — that they have this interventional neurology with the ability to perform a mechanical thrombectomy. This is added to these six teams in the hospitals of Ferrol, Lugo, Ourense, Pontevedra, in the Navy and in the Povervisa, which configure that network of collaboration in the diagnosis and treatment of the patient with stroke — so he told us that they have systematic care protocols. And in addition to this collaboration with the comarcal hospitals, which have the necessary capacity and training to perform intravenous fibrinolysis in case of identifying an episode of ischemic stroke, there is further the creation of this Ictus Care Center, made up of this team of expert neurologists that are twenty-four hours a day the 300 sixty-five days a year. It is very important, Counsellor, to come here — to the plenary session of Parliament — and to tell how you are working from the Health Council seeking to continue to improve in all the fields that concern the health of the Greeks. I would like that in this second shift, if you can, answer me how the plan is being tracked and if you have planned to implement some improvement; and you can also tell us the number of ictus codes that have been activated and more the intravenous fibrinolysiss and mechanical thrombectomy performed since the start of this plan. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u231	Thank you very much, Mrs. Friend. The Secretary of Health, Mr. García Comesaña, has the floor for the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u232	Thank you very much, Mrs. Friend. Indeed, we continue to move forward in order to carry out a proper follow-up of the plan, evaluate it and develop, of course, continuous improvement actions. And for that we have created the Ictus Control and Follow-up Commission and the Ictus Registry. With the creation of the log, we can analyze the activity of the stroke and evaluate the results achieved in order to implement the necessary improvements. At the moment, this commission is conducting a review of the plan in order to update it in aspects related to the diagnosis, treatment and organization of the care response. This improvement will be based on the latest approaches to scientific evidence, such as the expansion, in some cases, of the therapeutic window. Since the plan was set up, the number of stroke codes activated has been more than 8,000. The intravenous fibrinolysiss performed exceed 1,700 and more than 900 mechanical tombs were performed. We are living in an unprecedented situation caused by cowardice-19, but that's not why we stop caring for patients who have other serious pathologies; and much more so when they are time-dependent pathologies, as is the case with stroke. And as evidence is, in the course of the year, more than 1,900 stroke codes were activated. When a person suffers from an ischemic stroke, an irreversible infarction tissue area quickly occurs, surrounded by another hypoxic but potentially lifesaving tissue. Here opens a four and a half hour therapeutic window that offers us the possibility to act and thus prevent or minimize the size of brain infarction. That's why we prioritize the stroke as a medical emergency to minimize the time between the onset of the clinic and effective treatment. That's why it's important for citizens to know that anyone who thinks he might be suffering a stroke shouldn't delay to turn to care services, because, as it's collected in the plan, "time is brain." We have a good system and excellent professionals to attend. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u233	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question from Da Iria Carreira Pazos and two other MPs from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the measures envisaged by the Government of Greece to improve the infrastructure and reinforcement of ICU adult staff at Santiago de Compostela Clinic Hospital
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u234	To put the question, Mrs. Carreira Pazos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u235	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I want to send all my strength and support to the ICU staff of CHUS adults, who is listening to us and who started a series of mobilizations last week to demand the necessary improvements in this unit. We've been saying for some time that the cave pandemic came only to mark and accentuate the dramatic situation that already existed in the Welsh health. We're seeing it in a very remarkable way at the UCI of Compostela Clinic adults. This unit is suffering from major structural deficiencies, which, by the way, were already deficiencies before we knew the coward. Physically it's a large open room with only two cubicles closed, one in each of the entrances. The rest are only 13 patients' beds, placed on one side and on the other side of space, with no separation between themselves than a little curtain. This situation leads to the fact that, apart from these two anecdotic cubicles, any other patient who is a carrier — asymptomatic or not — of the covid automatically converts ICU into a dirty ICU. All patients and all workers are at risk of contagion. What this means is that staff are forced to work throughout their job with an individual protective team, an PPE that must carry for seven or ten hours uninterrupted; with all the psychological stress and all the physical discomfort and the tiredness that this implies. Above all, this is in addition to the precarious conditions in which professionals are found. ICU has very well established which personnel ratios should be per patient, taking into account quality and safety criteria. And yet these ratios are constantly being questioned, because you take off your ICU staff to cover other areas or you don't rest your absent staff. And before that, the alternative they receive on many occasions is a choice between taking on more workload or those who leave the previous shift prolong their work day. You see in this choice two factors: one is that more work load means greater risk to patients; and two, that professionals have the right to have a life outside the hospital, to have scheduled their leisure time without having to depend on their mismanagement. Besides, in the staff dance for hospital plants, they don't do what should be a maximum in time for pandemics. They don't pay attention to the possibility that this staff moving between units may be a vector transmission of the infection. And they put patients and the rest of the workers at the center at risk. There are no clear criteria for these rotations today between dirty and clean units, and they are often mobilized without meeting the workload or the emotional, physical or psychic burdens of each one. All of these claims have been exposed on numerous occasions by the ICU staff and are collected in an agreement with the health department, dated June 18, in which he commits himself to corrections and has an ICU with cubicles closed at the end of the summer. It's November 11th and everything's still the same.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u236	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u237	For this reason, Counsellor, what are the measures envisaged for the adequacy of ICU and staff reinforcement?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u238	Thank you very much, Mrs. Carreira. The Health Counsellor, Mr. García Comesaña, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u239	Good afternoon again, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Carreira, the Hospital de Santiago has at its disposal an ICU that has 23 beds, a number equal to other health areas, such as that of Coruña or Vigo. The particularity is that these beds are distributed in two hospitals — maybe in the Clinic and eight in the Conxo — the difference in what happens in the other health areas, which all concentrate in one hospital. The units, both the one in the Clinic and the one in Conxo, have an open configuration, but we do have enclosed cubicles for patients who need isolation: two in the ICU in the Clinic and one in the Conxo. But in addition, the health area of Santiago, in the same way as the rest of the health areas, has critical beds for surgical patients in so-called resuscitation units. This is because in 2011 this government decided to build a new resuscitation unit in the Clinic. Thanks to this action, during the first wave, the covid patients who needed entry into a critical unit were attended to both the ICU and the clinical resuscitation unit. Of course this configuration is improved, and our aspiration is to achieve a reform of the ICU with all the cubicles closed. So it was transferred to the staff; yes, warning that it would only be done if the work could be ready before September to not meet with an ICU in the middle of the second wave. But the fact is that no company has undertaken to do the work within such a short period of time. The shorter period they were committed to was five months, which would motivate the works to extend until January of next year. Making that decision was a risk. You now say that you will support it but allow me to doubt it — more than nothing by the precedents. Last April, an intervention was made at the ICU at the hospital in Montecelo. It lasted exactly four days and was destined precisely to enable two boxes of isolation. It took advantage of the moment when it was clinically considered more appropriate — with a low income —. What was the BNG reaction? Léolla, taken from Twitter from her party on April 25, that same year: "The Board closes the UCI of Montecelo in Pontevedra. For telefeijó, the model is campaign hospitals." So, when we are now being criticized for not taking the risk of doing these works at the ICU in Santiago during the summer, is it because they really thought they would support that decision — if they did so — or why bother them to miss out on a chance to do demagogy again with such a serious topic? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u240	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. Carreira Pazos has the floor for the replica shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u241	Mr. Comesaña, there are times when this Government reminds me of a scene from a film where someone is about to fall asleep. Then somebody gets it, sort it out on the papers and then go back to sleep. It's not worth just the phone call. It's not worth all this government's action based on improvisation and urgency. That ICUs must have cubicles closed is something we know long before the vault. Patients with severe immunosuppression, patients with multi-drug-resistant microorganisms, are something that has existed since yesterday. These are some examples of those who should be isolated; and they haven't happened in three days. What you're telling me is that basically what we did in the pandemic situation was to improvise and what we're left for the second wave is to continue improvisation. And with regard to staff, the shortage of staff is neither yesterday nor yesterday's. Why don't you cover vacations or days of free disposition until a few hours before, when you've got advance knowledge? If there's an abdominal transplant in the morning and we know that this is going to involve a staff reinforcement, why is it time for shift change and this reinforcement is unannounced? Do you think I receive that the professionals, in addition to their usual work, must be constantly waiting to warn the guards to cover all the jobs? It's very little to sign a paper, it's very little to speak, and it's very little to violate the right to safety of workers and patients. There are no organisational or preventive measures, no human resources plan, no work risk prevention plan focused on the job and appropriate to its particularities and specificities. Are you gonna do something about this or are you gonna keep waiting to see if it rains? Because the only thing Mr. President gave us today as an answer is that the only thing that was done since the BNG was to push strikes, which seems to me to be a very serious lack of respect for the workers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u242	Thank you very much, Mrs. Carreira. Mr. García Comesaña has the floor for the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u243	Mrs. Carreira, during the peak of the first wave, 27 patients were admitted simultaneously to the Clinical Hospital. The patients first entered the two ICU isolation cubicles and later the resuscitation cubicles. This was done, on the other hand, in all Spanish hospitals — taking advantage of the isolation cubicles, precisely —. Thus, ICU could continue to treat non-covid patients until, once all beds of resuscitation units were occupied, if it had to return to ICU. At the time that the first patient entered the open area of the ICU he became a foster ICU; and he began to enable the space of the old resuscitation to continue to care for non-covid critical patients, along with the ICU of the Conxo Hospital. An upgrade of the equipment with complete renewal of the system of monitors and telemetry of all UCI beds, as well as of the old resuscitation unit, which has also been equipped with new resuscitation units. And the 15 beds of this unit are already operational, with which there is capacity to enable a total of 38 simultaneous beds. This is reflected in the contingency plans approved by the Clinical Committee and therefore we believe that we will be able to deal with the second wave — moreover, I want to tell you that if there is a work risk prevention plan, which you should know — let alone if we consider that in this same hospital we have just expanded the emergencies, with an investment of 1.6 million euros, creating a new area of observation that has 40 care posts for the sick. This work can be done because an open space has been used and has not interfered with the ordinary activity of emergencies. But we're aware of the inconvenience that the current UCI configuration requires for the nursing staff. That's why we agreed with this collective the day-to-day fee compensation for those cases where the staff have to be working with the PPE throughout the day, as happens when patients are treated in open configuration. In this case, 20 minutes of excess will be computed for every day they have to be working with PPE. On the other hand, within the agreements reached with ICU staff is the limitation of mobility, which will be carried out exclusively in timely situations and for inevitable reasons; and only to other units where critical patients are treated, such as coronary unit, resuscitation unit or awakening unit. We're always open to hearing the demands of our professionals. That's why I can point out to you that we intend to include in the budgets for the year 2021 a sufficient amount to implement this comprehensive ICU reform at the Clinical Hospital. That's right, we'll do it when this performance doesn't pose a health risk to patients. But, ladies and gentlemen, patient safety is the first priority. And that's why right now the best measures to preserve the capacity of our ICUs are the measures we took last week following the indications of the Clinical Committee. So he said last week to the Galaga Society of Intensive Medicine, which applauded these measures precisely to protect patients and professionals from saturation that could come if we didn't anticipate the precise measures. And, precisely for our commitment to these professionals and to the whole of the Greeks, let's anticipate and take them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u244	Thank you very much, Counselor. Da María Monserrat Prado Cores, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, about the number of tracking people in Galicia for the follow-up of people infected by the coward-19
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u245	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u246	Good afternoon, Counselor. We have had eight months of pandemics and, if there is any unanimity — from experts to the World Health Organization — it is in which in the fight against coward-19 it is vital to act quickly, carry out massive tests to detect positives, identify them, isolate them and track contacts. Doing this job well is fundamental to stopping the chain of infections and stopping the virus. You can't stop the pandemic if you don't know where the virus is. The key is being proactive, planning, anticipating, going in front of the virus and not behind it. Therefore, the launch of a tracking system must have been a priority on the part of the Galician Union. And what's the reality, Counselor? That they mastered the creation of a fraudulent account against reality. The fraudulent account that in Galicia there were more trackers than anywhere else — nothing more and nothing less than 6,000 according to the President of the Union said without any information beyond believing it as if it were a matter of faith. If there were 6,000 trackers, Counsellor, working eight hours a day in coordination, would we be in Galicia the situation that 60% of the infected are not known to their origin, as the State Epidemiological Surveillance Network repeatedly recognizes? Obviously not. Of 6,000 we went to the point where you refused to give any data. And today morning the president of the board again gave a round number: 700. Counsellor, today afternoon how many trackers are there in Galicia? When did the councilman lie?, when did he say 6,000?, today, when did he say 700?, the two days? I'd like you to clarify this because you can't always deceive people, Counselor. In front of his account is the reality that every day live the thousands and thousands of Greeks and Greeks. The reality is that it takes five, seven or ten days to call direct positive contacts, or they don't call them directly. The reality is that of the workplaces where a positive one appears and nobody calls the rest of the workers. The reality is that of people who live positively and don't call them nobody. The reality is the people who are told that they can leave the quarantine without testing them and therefore without any guarantee that they are not positive and that they are contagious to the rest of the people. The reality is that there is such a disappointment that some affected people are told to do one thing and others are told to do the opposite. The reality is, despite the fact that primary care has been supporting the fundamental weight of detection and follow-up of positives, they have just told you that they can't request contact tests because they're going to do the tracking center because they make sure they're going to get better in a few days. What is the situation of the trace in Galicia, Counsellor?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u247	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. The Health Counsellor, Mr. García Comesaña, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u248	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Prado, at the last plenary session of September I answered a question from your colleague — Mr Torrado — which was put in practice in the same way. Later I had an interview in a media where I gave exactly the same answer. "I don't know exactly what he answers." Maybe you were hoping that in that medium of communication would be a different answer to what I gave in this House. He speaks very ill of the respect you have for this Parliament if you think you can act that way. You insist on the same question and I have to give the same answer: tracking is not a professional category, but it's a process in which several collectives participate. And that's why it would be wrong to give a figure that didn't look at them all. You argue that the figure of 6,000 that the president of the board gave is false by counting primary health care personnel. Do you think they don't tell you? He just said yes. However, you look at the specific statement of your question: "What about the number of trackers for tracking people infected by the coward-19 in Galicia?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Mrs. Prado, precisely the follow-up of people infected in Galicia assumes it, almost as a whole, the primary care staff. The only exception is the infected persons who are hospitalized, whose follow-up is carried out by preventive medicine services — two collectives critical in tracking work, primary care doctors and preventive medicine. So in your question, your answer will be implicit: the follow-up of the infected, that is, of the positive cases -- of their evolution, of their evidence and of their high clinic -- the primary staff, which you don't want to count as part of the tracking system. This allows me to clarify another of the bad interpretations that you're doing from the Galician Union protocol. Precisely so that primary care staff can have enough time to provide health and clinical care to sick people, the Galician Union protocol seeks liberals of contact attention, which is entrusted to the Contact Monitoring Centre. This protocol is public and transparent, not since yesterday or since a week ago, since September 29. Over a month has been hanging on the board website and at the disposal of all professionals. However, you have never cared about this fully transparent information. They never said a word about this protocol, no, until last week, when a newspaper headline opens up to them the possibility of trying to spread the falsehood that the Board is denying evidence of PCR. So when you ask for transparency, unfortunately I have to doubt your goodwill. As we've just seen, the information they provide does not seem useful to you as long as it's not useful for you to trick and propagate bubbles about the health system. I'm sorry, Mrs. Prado, for that purpose you won't count on my collaboration.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u249	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. Prado Cores has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u250	Look, Counselor, you don't need my cooperation. He has the President of the Board, who, in order to convey bubbles, collaborates enthusiastically. Enthusiastly! [[Applause]] Because whoever gives a number one day and the next day the opposite is the president of the board, it's not the BNG. Who is contributing to alarmism in the population is precisely the president of the board when he gives one day an information and another day the opposite. And you, enthusiastically, too, say you don't give that information. Look, in the face of a situation of extreme gravity like the one we are living with, what Galicia needs is leadership, taking responsibility and taking precise measures, neither propaganda nor improvisation nor erratic behavior. Because those erratic behaviors, what they do is they put health at risk, the lives of the Greeks and the Greeks, and they stress even more professionals. Despite the certainty that a new wave of contagion would arrive, you neither planned nor anticipated. You said several times that the best contingency plan is to prevent and prevent case increases. But he didn't act so that it would become reality, Mr. Comesaña. Because for that to happen — I'm not going to tell you the number we need or need — you have to change what you say today 6,000 and tomorrow 700 by acting. And that's what they're not doing. I'm going to ask you here today, Counselor, to do two things. First, an efficient tracking system — and we know clearly how many trackers there are in Galicia, which tells us what is the true figure and where the president of the board was lied today — was lied when he said 6,000 or lied on both occasions — a genuine system that identifies, has a single protocol — that some don't tell one thing and others the opposite — a system that really works for what it has to work, that is being agile in detecting positives and, therefore, cutting the chain of contact. That's what you have to do. And the second question, Counsellor, is to strengthen the health system in general and primary care in particular. That is to act to actually convert what the best contingency system is to act in advance.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u251	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. For the Government's reply, Mr. Health Counsellor, Mr. García Comesaña has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u252	Mrs. Prado, I'm very glad you're talking about anticipation and prevention. From the Galician Junta, through the Clinical Committee, we've been ahead of us since June, taking measures in the municipalities, in the districts, and taking measures to keep the virus from spreading. We continue to be the second peninsula community with a better cumulative impact in 14 days. I therefore believe that the prevention work done in the autonomous community by all members of the public health system is there to see it. As for the number of trackers, I'm not going to play the game you want to join, which is to identify the Central staff as trackers. And I'm not going to do it because that would be to give a fake data. It would be to deny the role that in the tracking process has the epidemiological surveillance services, preventive medical services and primary care personnel, who — indeed — when diagnosing a person with symptoms asks for their PCR and, if you find a positive one, is also participating in the tracking system. So you're not asking for a figure to clear up, you're asking for a digit to confuse; a digit you want to use to exclude the rest of the tracking system from the equation. I'm not going to participate in a strategy that seeks to minimize the work of hundreds of health professionals. The Contact Monitoring Centre is a tool that is intended to assist and assist those health care personnel in a new and specific task arising from a pandemic, which we hope will be temporary and non-structural. That's precisely why his staff varies depending on the needs that epidemiological evolution itself is demanding; that's why, always working under the supervision of the technicians of the Directorate-General for Public Health, who are the reference professionals to guide and train people who then perform the most bureaucratic tasks of the survey, called "follow-up and control." We think it's a good tool, with a functioning, of course, improved. That's what we agree on. What we don't agree with is that in every step we take to improve this operation we find ourselves with an opposition that takes advantage of it to reverse it. We're in record of diagnostic tests in Galicia. There have never been so many PCRs every day — we have reached the tops of ten thousand a day. We have a pooling system — which, by the way, does not count for the Ministry of Health as evidence made of PCR — and we have new antigen testing. We use all the double band tests we count on — by the way, no expired to this day. Our goal is to increase our diagnostic ability to isolate and overcome this virus as much as possible. To pretend to understand that Welsh health is denying evidence is not only unfair, it is unworthy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u253	Thank you very much, Counselor. We moved on to the last question. Question by Mr Iago Tabares Pérez-Pineiro and three other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the delay in detecting the presence of the covid-19 and in communicating the results of the tests carried out in the Residence of Older People The Gozos, in the Perero de Aguiar
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u254	To put the question, Mr. Tabares has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u255	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I spoke first of all to the Social Policy Counsellor that she had already appeared three or four times in this Parliament. He must have been tired. In any case, we don't intend to question them, we don't intend to make them come for nothing; it's that there are already 435 dead people living in residences. That's why there is a social alarm, which there is a concern that the BNG intends to transfer with all respect to this government, which is solidarity, and the response of any valves. Anyway, and thinking that I could be the counselor lady to answer, I'm just going to make a reflection: the government is solidarity. When the Socialist Parliamentary Group was being questioned about a complaint by workers in Salvaterra, there was talk of "fotos". No, they weren't "fotoes," they were a picture of old people, injured, with chasms. I think we shouldn't frizz or at least be delicate with the terms the Government uses or, if so, with the opposition. Look, today we could talk, without leaving Ourense, about a lot of residences. We could talk about Monterrey, we could talk about Barbados, we could talk about the Farx, or we could talk about the Viana do Bolo, but we're trying to focus on the residence of the Gozos, on the Perero de Aguiar, mayor of the People's Party. By the end of February 2020 events in the United States, in particular, had already made it clear that there were indications that the coronavirus could enter the centres, in the homes of older people, and that it could be lethal; already in February, before the declaration of the state of health and non-health alarm. Of course, had the Galician Board been evaluated what was the state of residence at that time? How many controls were made in 2019? How many inspections in 2019? What were the human and material resources that existed in residences, at least, in the Joys, or now that it is evidenced so that it can't take long in the answer, in Salvaterra? The response in Ourense of the consequences of that state and pandemic we see them in Celanova just a few days: many infected people; residents, workers and many dead. By the way, if Celanova wasn't the most, it was thanks to the involvement of citizenship, the involvement of workers and the involvement of families. I believe that, with all respect to the world's working people, it is not enough to applaud, to acknowledge Parliament, both the issue of PPE and the security protocols, we are monitoring the control of these more security measures. In March, so we knew...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u256	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u257	...the consequences, we knew what could happen and that there was the possibility of another grom.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u258	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u259	In September, a control...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u260	Thank you very much, Mr. Tabaretes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u261	...preventive — finished —...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u262	No, no, in questions you know we're not... we're going very fair and you're on a second shift. Thank you. The Health Counsellor, Mr. García Comesaña, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u263	Good afternoon. Mr. Tabares, I'm sorry I couldn't finish the question as I wrote it, I'm going to answer what I had in writing, if I may. You were asking the written question because of the delay in the results of some workers at the penitentiary of the Aguiar Perier. The reason for the delay in PCR results in residence The Joys has never been hidden. I myself publicly explained that, although our capacity for analysis is very high, we are not exempt from problems that depend on many factors. In that case, we had a stock rupture problem in the so-called pipette tips of the analyzers, which are a secondary element in principle, but that ultimately are vital for the results process and that in those days they were generating supply problems to laboratories all over Spain and all over the world. That took the results off. However, I must regret that there is some perverse logic in your question. You can ask this question about a punctual delay in a periodic seizure of residential staff precisely because Galicia is one of the few autonomous communities where that climb is made. So, obviously, detecting cases is bad news, but much worse would be not detecting them. I understand it's not logical to blame the Board for detecting as many cases as you can. Look, the staff of the residences -- and I'm connected to what you said before you asked the question -- it's been, ever since this pandemic started, for a total of five kids. The first three came with samples in their PCR flour. In the first one, held between April and May, we detected 460 positive professionals. In the second, conducted between June and July, we detected 2 positive professionals. And in the third, held between September and October, we detected 24 positive professionals. Since October, we have further expanded our analysis capacity and, thanks to the pooling laboratory installed at the Public Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro, we can process many more samples and deliver results within 24 hours. So we've increased the speed of these cranes -- they're now being carried out for five years -- and every fifteen days the saliva is analyzed by all the workers of Galician residential centers and the positives are detected. In the first string drawn through this model, 20 positives were detected. When a positive professional was detected, the PCRs of all residents of the affected center were automatically carried out. This allows us to detect before and can break the chain of infection, already in several cases that these infected workers did not reach any resident. So I think that the system of encryption is functioning reasonably well and I believe that using the case of this residence to attack the system is against the interests that I think we all share, that there is evidence and that all possible cases are detected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u264	Thank you very much, Mr. Comesaña. For the replica turn, Mr Tabares has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u265	Counselor, by the numbers he gave, I don't think the answer meant the Joys. Anyway, with 400 and peaks, it's impossible. So it doesn't correspond much to what was the written question. In any case, on September 12, there was a pencil — I think it's a generic term, you don't know whether it's a PCR or not — and it gave a positive one; on September 23, a positive one; on the other, a positive one; and a few days later, 80% of the inmates and inmates gave a positive one. Something about this encryption system doesn't work very well, at least in the workers' and residents' protection protocols; otherwise, such a level of infection, where Joina... and it's not bad intentions, it's a concern. All this wouldn't happen, and we're already regretting the residence of the Aguiar Perier, dozens of dead. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In any case, I don't think they existed, and Salvaterra now puts it in manifesto. The Board intervened, had responsibility for 15 days ago for what happened in the residence and now - textual declarations - "will analyze". I think we need to be stricter and stricter in management and control than in residences. They're not bunkers. And the slaves can be made through the PCR; perhaps, they would give more security and we could save lives. I was talking about four months ago when the pandemic was being managed. No, four months ago, in March and April, they were studying residential contracts that consolidated their commercialization model. You keep giving the maximum score of 5 points to which you don't have -- or you just have 50% of the population -- the undefined staff. Precarization is guaranteed because if you continue to use last century's ratios, when you know better than I do not even patients in 1996 or interns and interns in a residence are the same now...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u266	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u267	So the ratios change, the rules of the competition change, and as someone says from the People's Party here...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u268	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u269	...you must change the model of residences. Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u270	Thank you very much, Mr. Tabaretes. For the Government's reply, the Health Counsellor, Mr. García Comesaña, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u271	Of course, Mr Tabares, for a lot of evidence to be done, regardless of the speed of the pilots, of the time that the results and the situation of the laboratories are delayed, the oldest residences have some obligations to meet. Since May there has been a joint protocol on health and social policy councils for prevention measures and action measures in the face of a scandal. Since the same month of September, we have also launched new measures in residential centres agreed upon by the Clinical Committee, with a protocol to regulate visits to residents in areas affected by cod and reduce the impact of confinement. We are looking for a balance between the need to avoid infection and the need to maintain interaction between residents and their loved ones, and in most cases this balance is working. It's not a personal impression, is that the current data confirms that 90% of Galician residences are completely coronary-free. Residentials are not bunkers, as you said well, nor can they be compared to prisons; they are spaces where risks exist, and those who promise to have a solution to prevent any contagion in a residence are simply missing the truth. The important thing, when there are cases like those of Joy, where the virus, unfortunately, comes in and spreads, is to act and give solutions. And in this case, the Board acted decisively by immediately intervening the residence to ensure the quality of care and compliance with the protocols. There is no doubt that we will continue to work on improving the protocols, improving the recruits and all the measures that are being evaluated in the Clinical Committee so that they can take care of our elders and ensure that residences continue to be safe. I want to tell you that the encryption tests that are made are PCR; they were always PCR in the case of workers, they were never another type of test. And if the fact of making more awkward and finding more cases raises more questions from the opposition, welcome are your questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-11-DSPG012.u272	Thank you very much, Counselor. With no more points on the agenda, we're done with the session. Thank you all very much.
