ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u1	The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of Parliament, so we do not proceed to its reading. They justified their inattentiveness and made a delegation of vote, in particular, Mr Daniel Pérez López — who delegated his vote to Mrs Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo — and Mrs María Guadalupe Murillo Solís — that the delegation to Mr Pedro Puy. And all the more, we're on the agenda with the legislative texts. Comprehensive discussion of the draft law regulating external action and cooperation for the development of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u2	Amendments have been tabled to the entire Socialist Parliamentary Group and to the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block. For the presentation of the project, the Vice-President, Prime Minister, Justice and Tourism, Mr. Alfonso Rueda Valenzuela, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. In fact, the Council of Galicia brings to Parliament the draft law of external action and cooperation for the development of Galicia, a law made for our autonomous community and which aims to establish an updated and comprehensive regulation in the field of external relations. So today we have fulfilled a commitment that was ambitious from the beginning, that it was to equip Galicia with a pioneering standard for many aspects and that it aims to improve our projection through the coordination of all the Greek external action — of course, the one that makes the self-government itself but also all those agents acting abroad. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this normative text is the fruit of a work and a government commitment that has been working on for years. It should be recalled that in 2014 the adoption of Law 2/2014, of 25 March, of the action and of the State's external service, which was subsequently followed by Law 25/2014, of 27 November, of treaties and other international agreements, opened the doors for the first time to the external projection of autonomous communities. So, with this endorsement and within ever - and I want to insist very much because it is one of the axes, probably the fundamental, it could not be otherwise, which presides over this bill -..., within ever, as I said, of the indispensable and indispensable constitutional loyalty, the Council of Galicia has already approved in 2015 Decree 178 of 26 November, which regulates the external action of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. And then, in 2017, on 9 March, we also adopted the Development Cooperation Decree, which sought to simplify and update the development legislation of a law which had already been old-fashioned for the passage of time, the 2003 Law, of 19 June, of development cooperation. So, and with these background, the Galician Union, in character prior to the adoption of this bill, already on February 1, 2018 approved the Greek Strategy of External Action Horizon post-2020. He had no vote against the report presented in respect of this strategy in the Galician Parliament. And, as you know, point 33 of this strategy reflects the commitment, which we today have fulfilled, to develop and bring to its approval a bill of external action. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with an important law that responds to the new challenges — dynamic and changing rights — that are always given in the international context. External action is vital in an increasingly interdependent world, increasingly globalized, more and more communicated. Therefore, it is increasingly likely that it will affect every thing that happens in the rest of the countries, in the autonomous communities and in the actors that act in the international context. We therefore have to wager and regulate by law responsible and supportive action — and the law also devotes an important part — to cooperation with the least developed countries. As you know, there is only one precedent, the Foreign Act of Action of Catalonia. And as you also know, it had to be thoroughly revised after facing serious constitutional conflicts with the Central Government. It is therefore perfectly understandable that, with these precedents, and bearing in mind that it is a law of pioneering external action and that it presents a lot of news but a law that is presented in an autonomous community that is part of a State, this constitutional loyalty leads us not to repeat — or at least try not to repeat — the errors that have led to all the problems that have led to that law of external action in Catalonia — even from a constitutional point of view. So we want to do things well, develop a law of consensus, develop a law with loyalty and, therefore, we have dialogue and count from the outset with the participation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And, of course, after a negotiation there was a long negotiation from a political point of view, from a technical point of view, we finally count on your good visa, with a good view of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, of the European Union and of Cooperation. So this bill, which we are presenting today, respects the principles of unity of action abroad and institutional loyalty, which must guide — so said the law passed by the State five years ago — the external action of any autonomous community that wants to undertake it and regulate it. Therefore, Galicia's external action is presided over — and I would like to stress very much — by constitutional loyalty. Without constitutional loyalty, in external action — not at all, ladies and gentlemen, but especially in external action — there is no cooperation or coordination with the central government or even the external action we want to do. The project went through all the processes of public participation, achieved the favourable report of the Galego External Action Council and the Galego Development Cooperation Council — this last report was unanimously, I think it is important to highlight it. And, therefore, with these background, and before I get a little bit more into its contents, I'd like to highlight in general lines that are a pioneering standard. It is the second which is done — first in coordination — in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the favourable report; that is, the State itself, which has, at the end, not forgotten — exclusive competence in the field of international relations. And we aspire with it to improve Galician projection through the coordination of our external action. We intend to regulate the Greek participation in the negotiation of international treaties — and this is also very important, much more so now that a new economic period is opened in Europe —. We want to improve the attention of the Greeks abroad, consolidate the very important relationship — which has come for many years — of the northern Galicia region of Portugal. We want to project Galicia's action in the countries of the Lusophony and provide Galicia with the greatest possible role in development cooperation. And, of course, with regard to Galicia's external image, external action on tourism will also focus on the Galician brand and, at the gates of the Xacobeo 2021, especially on the Way of Santiago. Entering into detail the objectives of the law, what do we intend with this law? He said before that of proposing responses to the new and changing challenges that arise in the international context and getting strengthened with these proposals. We sought, among other things, to take advantage of the opportunities, which I had previously referred to, which opened Law 2/2014 of 25 March, of the action of the State's external service and also Law 25/2014 of treaties and other international agreements. They give us opportunities to take advantage of them by developing a law in the autonomic field, and that's why we do it and introduce it. We also want to project Galicia into the European Union and the rest of the international scene — much more at the moment. We also want to improve the coordination of the public actors and private Greek agents who operate abroad. We want to assemble, renew and make sense — and to continue to be dynamic — to the cooperation of Galicia in external action for development. I believe that the experience of more than three highlights in the management of development cooperation policy now allows — listening to the NGOs, those on the ground — to incorporate more appropriate solutions, with a management that has to continue to earn — and it already has a lot — in efficiency for beneficiaries and initiatives, which are always carried out in very complicated and always needed scenarios of much coordination and great precision in the support given to them. Let us turn to the concrete measures contained in this law, how we are going to do all of this to what I'm talking about. Thanks to the fact that we are going to mention — and I hope — the general framework needed by this law will allow us to do many things in the concrete plane, we will be able to determine the guiding principles of the Greek external action; for example, we will be able to contribute to real convergence with the European Union's socio-economic indicators through our own external action; we will be able to continue to act in the diversification of the external markets; we will be able to act more directly in the collection of commercial and industrial capital for productive investment, and also of qualified human capital — which is very important — for the economic consolidation of Galicia; we will work to promote the return of immigrants and their descendants who want to do so — always have the doors of Galicia opened and this law will be an important instrument; and we will also deepen — which is very important — in the implementation of the objectives of the United Nations's global development agenda. The law also allows the concentration in the figure of the Presidency of the Galician Council of the external representation of our autonomous community and also gives it the ability to subscribe to international agreements as far as the Autonomous Community of Galicia is concerned. The subjects of external action, both public and private, are also much more concrete, giving special importance to those acting in the territorial sphere of the euro region. It provides for greater transparency in official travel abroad, in line with the Greek external action strategy, which already provides for it at its own time, and with that annual report which is brought to Parliament. We also want to regulate and inform — this is very important and, in addition, it was one of the demands requested by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs — all receipts and visits made by foreign agents and agents — of any kind, public and private — to come to Galicia, and to bring a relationship and coordination with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is recognized, as I said before, the strategic character of the Galicia-North region of Portugal and it is also very important all that has to do with the Lusophony. Cooperation with Portugal, with the Lusophone countries is becoming more and more closely, and we must therefore take advantage of this enormous advantage. We also address issues related to Galicia's participation in European Union affairs through the Conference on European Union Affairs (CAREU). We see it's an instrument not yet exploited. It needs to have a lot more capacity, it needs to greatly improve the coordination of autonomous communities with the General Administration of the State through CARUE. We believe that it is the right instrument and we also want to regulate in this law the way in which we believe that Galicia should participate, in an ascending and descending sense, in the drafting of the agreements that are taken to CARUE for coordination purposes. We also regulate participation in the sectoral conferences that have to do with foreign policy, such as the Working Party on European Affairs and External Action or the European Committee of the Regions — which is fundamental and where Galicia has played a special role in recent years. All of this is provided for in the External Act of Action. Galicia's participation in Europe outside the legal framework of the European Union is of particular importance. Why? Yes, of course, for the present moment we live and for all the difficulties that are being posed by the Brexit-derived agreements. We therefore want to be able to regulate the negotiation of treaties and their execution in Galicia outside the framework of the European Union, where appropriate, and international administrative and non-regulatory agreements, provision for other agreements, new figures that may suggest, communicate and register these instruments, coordination again with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and also the approval of memorandums, which are increasingly a legal instrument which has more use in the field of international relations. It's a law, in addition, which has a deep cross-sectional vocation; therefore, it regulates all the departments of the Galician Union and systematizes them for their external action. In the area of emigration, for example, we are going to look after the rights of Greek citizenship abroad and to facilitate — as I said before — their return to Galicia at a time when we believe that achieving this goal is especially important. As far as emergency matters are concerned, we're going to coordinate even more. We've started with the Ariem projects in northern Portugal, but we think there's a lot more field of development. First, to be much more agile — and, the less bureaucratic, better — in response to emergencies that have a border character; and also, when international aid is required — even if it is not in close quarters — that the system works very quickly, that it is not lost a single minute when such international aid is called for. Galicia can send it out, and on the contrary — and we hope that it will never be necessary — when it is needed here, in Galicia, that international aid from other countries and that there is a procedure that will facilitate it in an axile way. At the Galaga School of Public Administration there will also be a training system for public employees in the field of external relations and of European and international interest. Of course, at the expense of all economic planning you have to have — you have, but you have to continue to have, and much more now that it is a new economic period — a very related and highly connected perspective with the management of European funds. In the environment we will bet on external environmental cooperation. In economic terms, in the economic relations between Galician companies and Galician companies, we will prioritize all those who have an external vocation. There are many and very good ones, which I think are examples throughout Spain and throughout the world of vocation to look outward and to export; therefore, you will have to continue to potentiate them. They are located here in Galicia and, of course, they are an instrument that we must take advantage of. So in the first trimester of each year, the Autonomous Administration will evaluate the World Bank's Doing Business Study, present for this, to assess and launch measures to further improve this foreign capital attraction and to continue to assist companies that look abroad in their commercial and industrial activity. In education we will encourage European exchanges of teaching professionals and students. We're already having a successful program with northern Portugal, the James Program, and we want to keep doing it. There are many more possibilities to keep growing in this field. We will take precedence over the internationalization of the universities in Greece in university funding. We will continue to participate in the European Union’s more and more powerful social volunteering programmes. And in culture and language we will continue to promote the dissemination of cultural values and the external visibility of the Galician cultural fabric, the teaching of the language and the literature of Welsh, and to take advantage of, of course — as I said before — all the potentials that give us the Lusophony. In tourism we will offer a highly oriented Galician brand image, as I said before — and much more at this time — about what has to do with the values of the Santiago Way, which is the most distinctive fact and what recognizes us internationally. But that's not all. We believe that we have many things to offer as brand-Galicia, as country-marks, as tourist destination too; and therefore coordination in external promotion also provides for this law, which will greatly facilitate things. In health care we will promote the appeal of health services for their service in Galicia, just as other countries of the European Union are doing. With regard to the sea and fishing — which is so important in Galicia — there is a specific paragraph to defend the interests of the sea abroad, an active policy of EU agreements with non-member third countries to supply us with products from the sea and to stimulate agreements with non-member States and the European Union to access their waters. In cooperation, I've already told you to update your goals. We believe that we are frankly pleased with the way the NGOs work, with the support given to them from the Galician Union to make their policy on the ground. And that all of this is recognized and coordinated in an outer action law will undoubtedly help you in a very direct way. We have also — and I will finish, Mr President — updated the report on public delegations and offices abroad. We adapt their forecasts to the Law of 2014, of action and of the State's foreign service, and, without overlaping with it at all, we want to continue to maintain, in loyal coordination and collaboration with the Government of the State and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Greek presence in those places, through an office, where the Greeks demand that this presence be more manifest and lasting. We constituted the Seat of Greeks abroad to strengthen links with Galicia, identify the Greek companies abroad, and create networks through the Seat of companies and professional Greeks abroad, and regulate the Voluntary Register of Foreigners with Interests in Galicia, with special link and affection to Galicia, so that here, within Galicia, they lobby out, towards their countries, of all that comes here, and that they help us also to be ambassadors in their places of origin of all that they have experienced here and everything they have perceived here. So, finally, ladies and gentlemen, we have fulfilled a commitment demanded by many sectors of society, we take advantage of the opportunity given to us by the laws of the State to make an external law of action in Galicia. We have very clear which constitutional frameworks we should not move from, but we also have clear that, within these frameworks, if we can do a lot of things and we should not waste this opportunity. It's a law of an autonomous community that aspires to have its own role abroad, but it's not a law of a state. The state is the Spanish State and therefore...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u4	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u5	...we want to make that coordination, we want to continue to exercise that constitutional loyalty. We do not want to fall into the mistakes of the other law of external action that existed right now in the autonomous community, and we want to be pioneers at a time when we take the lead in international relations, no doubt — if we do it right and for that it is essential a law — will give Galicia many advantages in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u6	Thank you, Vice President. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The role of defence of amendments to the whole, of restitution, and of positioning with respect to the bill. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Aranguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. We are faced with a text that seeks to legislate on important issues for Galicia, given its special external projection within the autonomous communities of the State for basically historical reasons, as is the fact that, according to certain estimates, 1 out of every 5 European emigrants — who passed from 60 million between 1850 and 1950 — was Greek or Greek. The singularity that this Welsh diaspora represents and the fact that we find ourselves in an increasingly globalized and interdependent world require, of course, a very fine adjustment to the policies of our community within the scope of its autonomy. But we can't lose sight that in any federal state — and Spain is, at least to a good extent, a federal state — the normal thing is that foreign policies are part of the sphere of action of the central structure of the state, for logical and well-founded reasons of efficiency and coherence; so the centrifugal temptation that may have some political force in this House does not make sense of any kind, neither from the point of view of the structural rationality of the state nor from the point of view of the trends of the world in the 21st century. What makes all the sense is to provide Galicia, within the rationality and legal order, with effective and efficient external action; efficiency and efficiency of which it has traditionally been lacking — solely in the last eleven years. The Greek diaspora, which we all know, was a tragic story, to a good extent, that of a country from which the people had to emigrate to survive. But within this tragedy, the diaspora was also enriching by the fact that it reached a point where it could be said that there was a Welshman in every corner of the world, from Australia to Canada, passing through South Africa or the Amazon. And that prints a character, brand culture and equips this country with an asset underutilized by the managerial incapacity in the matter of the Greek Government and the inability of that very government to imagine ways to put this huge foreign Galician community online, which implies a great cultural but also economic potential if Galicia is able to take advantage of it. And that doesn't work out with this law, nor does it look like it's on its way. It's very good to create records and censuses of companies and residents abroad, which is what a decimonic administration would do. But in the 21st century this law goes from points on to how to network all that potential and take advantage of the synergies of Galician foreign capital — which is much and we reiterate that it is underutilized. Instead, it seems that the most important thing that matters to the Union is clientelism. Discretionary aid and cooperation agreements with the Greek centres — which are too often used to manipulate the external vote — proliferated in the campaign and the pre-campaign, after less than a year ago we knew that the State Court of Auditors, in a random control, opened accounts for the diversion of EUR 300,000, which were theoretically intended to help the Spanish community of Venezuela — which, as we know, is largely Welsh — and which were intended for spry purposes of type and electoral character. And, for further inri, the newspaper El Diario subtitulates an information dated February 20, this year saying: "A high post of the Galician Board appointed by Alberto Núñez Feijóo has drawn up a plan in Venezuela for a public foundation to cover with own funds the 300,000 euro hole detected by the Court of Auditors in the management of Spanish emergency aid in that country during 2015 and 2016, two electoral years." That information would be referred to by Mr. Rodríguez Miranda, who has recently been ratified as Secretary General of Emigration. And the chances that the State Court of Auditors detects a deviation in a portion of that kind are frankly low, because it does not control more than a small part of the public expenditure. So we can infer that this falcatrode — which, by the way, presents obvious criminal indications — is only the tip of the iceberg, which gives us an idea of what the priorities of the Junta, Mr Feijóo and Mr Rodríguez Miranda are about the heirs of our diaspora. In any case, the elaboration of this rule does not show sufficient involvement by interested actors, nor by the Greek external community, while few allegations have been made during the hearing period, relatively few. And we're faced with a very extensive, clumsy rule that abounds in Kafkianally bureaucratic matters and declarations as prolific as empty of content. And it's also inaccurate about the means by which it aims to achieve the multiple and, no doubt, well-intentioned objectives that it marks; some as ethereal as to promote Galicia as by scientific and technological excellence. And allow me to stop here because it's a completely alien target to reality, when Galicia is far from the average investment in R & D+i of the state's whole, which, for its part, is far from the European average. Not to mention that the concept of excellence is linguistically as misleading as legally indeterminate. But, in any case, what we have to consider is that the only place where Galicia can be regarded as a pole of scientific and technological excellence that needs to be promoted abroad is in the warm and warm minds of Mr Feijóo's propagandists. But in no case should anything like this be done in a law, because Galicia is far from being excellent in scientific and technological development, for much propaganda to put us in the loophole. First of all, despite receiving large amounts from European funds, Galicia fell down by 27 positions from 2013 to 2019 at the regional competitiveness ranking that the European Union is developing. And of course, we know that competitiveness is closely linked to science and technology. But at this rate and with this government, the possibilities of Galicia becoming, as the law says, a pole of scientific and technological excellence are as high as those of which it becomes the Country of Wonders so that Alice of Lewis Carroll developed with certain looseness. So to say today that Galicia needs to be promoted abroad as well as by scientific and technological excellence is a nonsense, a dream, a ton of hair or all three things at the same time. And putting it in writing in a law is an exercise of political and legislative folly. And instead of deliriums, it doesn't just contemplate a coherent regulation of something as important as the action of economic promotion abroad, beyond obvious objectives, as attracting foreign investment; very commendable if it wasn't, firstly, because Galicia is systematically, year after year, a community that receives much less direct investment than the average of the state. For example, in the last year, 2019, which was announced by the Galician Board as a great success in investment capture, captured 112 million of the 14,792 state, of the state as a whole — that is, less than 1% of the total, when its weight in GDP and in the population of the state as a whole exceeds 5% —. And in 2018, a much more standard year, much more regular, captured 0.14%, i.e. 35 times less than it would correspond to its economic and population weight. They are absolutely demolitional figures that deny Galicia's attractive investor and the ease to do business in it, unlike northern Portugal, that captures the Greek capital and foreign to moreas the Union looks elsewhere and disproves itself from that fact. Secondly, because the means to make Galicia a more competitive country in the international agenda are not contemplated in this law, beyond the delusional idea of examining each year, as Mr Rueda mentioned, the World Bank's Doing Business Report. And in this respect I want to stop especially. It is unusual that a law establishes the obligation for someone in the Greek Government to read such an important report as the Doing Business, in addition to that it seems to imply that until now no one in the Union has bothered to read that report, which seems to confirm what we already thought. But it is unheard of for a number of reasons. First, that report is translated into Spanish, so even Mr. Feijóo, who doesn't speak or understand English, can read it perfectly. Secondly, it's not a very extensive report -- about 130 pages -- so it won't take them long. Thirdly, if you don't have time for Mr. Feijóo or Mr. Rueda or Mr. Count, you have lots of advisers who can give you an executive summary. And here the problem is all over again. Igape is a disaster both in Galicia's external promotion and in foreign investment capture. So much so, even though it has among its ends the promotion of Galicia's foreign trade and the capture of foreign investment, only one of its departments — four or five — has among its functions those purposes. I mean, about 20 of the approximately 120 Igape workers have, as one of their tasks, Galicia's external economic action. So it seems that the Igape is much more anxious to distribute subsidies among certain related companies than to promote the Greek economy abroad, which is, or should be, one of its main objectives. It is a huge disproportion with respect to the importance of this external economic action in the 21st century, something that Mr. Feijóo's Board seems to have not been found, as the fact that in eleven years of government the only foreign investment pickup action by that self-denominated large manager, which is Mr. Feijóo, was that of the Pemex case, which consisted in that a few months before the elections of 2016 the President of the Board announced a wonderful agreement by which Pemex bought the shipyard Barreras and besides he was going to build in Spain more than 20 ships — which eventually stayed in two — and a logistics center for Europe throughout the outer port of Punta Langosteira, of which I never knew anything at all. And the rest of the story — by the way, for bad — is well known. Another problem of the Greek external action that does not solve this rule is the dispersion in its direction, which, on the one hand, is found in the General Secretariat of Emigration, which depends on Mr. Feijóo, and, on the other, in the General Directorate of External Action, which I believe depends on Mr. Rueda. This is very difficult to coordinate policies in the external environment, in addition to being an anomaly, if we make a comparison with other autonomous communities. Another is to lower the rank of the General Secretariat of External Action of the Fraga era and also of the legislation of Emilio Pérez Touriño. All of the above, and much more, gives evidence of the lack of determination of a law, which seems at times completely alien to reality, which advocates the capture of specialized immigrants abroad when Galicia basically suffers from an economical demographic crisis that presents Spain's worst data and unemployment figures that duplicate those of the OECD before they are triggered by the crisis resulting from the current pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, how will Galicia capture specialized immigrants when the best-prepared youth in Galicia's history has to go out of Galicia to find work? It is another abismal incoherence, another abismal incoherence between official Galicia and royal Galicia. In the official Galicia we capture specialized immigrants — yes, on the role — while in the royal Galicia the young men and girls, after spending years of their training with public support and personal and family effort, have to pack up to find a job that is minimally decent. This law dedicates a title, the ninth, to delegations and permanent autonomous offices abroad, in which it seems an attempt to mimic acts of communities such as Catalonia, which have been very controversial in recent years and which seem to be very poorly tuned, insofar as the current crisis is predictable a dilated contraction in the time of available public resources, which in any case are limited and scarce and, as such, frankly valuable. And, on the other hand, it is obvious that there is a wide network of state embassies and commercial offices abroad that can serve — and in fact they have been serving for decades and are, by the way, underutilized — for the purposes of this law without the need to invest scarce Greek public resources in new buildings which are useless. And in general, in all your public policies, you should change your mindset. The Union has dedicated itself for decades to building empty buildings, and Galicia's external action, like the rest of our community's policies, will not be better than having more empty or meaningless buildings and, therefore, that which they like so much, which is "the sweet one." The law dedicates a title, the tenth, to new networks of Greek interests abroad, in a completely imprecise and, with all probability, sterile manner. The Union stands out as a novelty the creation of the Seat of Galicians abroad and more the Seat of Galician companies abroad, as well as the Register of Foreigners with Interests in Galicia, which will voluntarily include those non-Spanish and residents outside Spain who have a special link with Galicia. But besides saying that there will be those records, it doesn't set what you're going to do with them. So we're faced with another Kafkiana derivative of a law that seems to have had the same Kafka on his editorial team. In conclusion — and to conclude — we understand that it is a well-intentioned law that addresses the problems of the Greek external action between immobilism, self-competition and an extremely bureaucratic vision — that it would almost be optimistic to qualify it by the 20th century itself — when we are in the 21st century. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u8	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u9	Good morning, Mr. Rueda. I have to tell you that you disappointed me today at the beginning of your intervention the commendation of your autologies, because you told me that it was a pioneering law, but you didn't say that it was the most advanced law in Europe, which they usually say when they present a law here. They mustn't be too convinced. Well, what we want to say to you in this debate, and that's why we put forward a proposal for a return, is that we have a lot of discrepancies in the substance, form and content of this legal text. And we think there's a possibility, a chance, an opportunity, of reaching agreements so that it's a law that has a broad institutional, political and social backing. It would be good if that had happened. We're going to explain the reasons for our discrepancies, and we think there's a way forward to try to reach those approaches or those agreements. The first question is the general concept of the law. We think it's a minor law, a shallow law, a complex law and a lack of ambition. And really, if it wasn't for cooperation, development would remain in a simple decree. For that we already had the 2015 decree, because this law makes it take that decree, lock it up a little bit and make it into a law. And for that, of course, we had the decree. And in addition, it's a protected rule, a rule subject to preventive control by the Government of the State. And we were very surprised by his assertion here that, after the adoption of the 2014 Act of the State's external action, the doors had been opened to the external projection of the autonomous communities. So what have you been doing all these years before? What has been done in this country? Didn't we get an outside projection? I don't know, but there are a lot of people who even here, on the right, miss the foreign policy that Mr. Fraga Iribarne made. Of course, what they're doing right now is very far away, not to mention any other steps. And, moreover, we think that it expresses in a sick way the submission to Madrid, obedience to Madrid, which is something that is machaconically repeated in the text. And then there's an issue that seems absolutely central and fundamental to us. This is not the law of Galicia's foreign policy, it's the law of the Galician People's Party's Union's external action. And if this is not clear, they already leave express in the text the fact that this law is the law of the Supreme Chief. They don't call him "the Supreme Chief" because otherwise it would appear to be copied from North Korea. They call the president of the Union the Supreme Chief of Foreign Policy. By the way, a high-ranking chief who suspends his international agenda, an institutional trip to the United States, to come to an ultra-right demonstration at Columbus Square in Madrid. Is that the foreign policy you want? [[Applause]] For these voyages it doesn't contain us, because the president of the board dishonors his country when he suspends his international agenda to be accompanied by that masquerade, old-fashioned and fascist right. For those trips it doesn't count on us. And, look, this is a law that sets out a devalued foreign policy, devalued in planning. Because there's no strategy. Egaex cannot be called a true strategy, because it is an exhibition text, it is not a proactive text. It's a diversion, and I'm sending that back to the demolition report that we understand you've done about this text the Atlantic axis. I'm not saying anymore. It's a rule devalued and minimized also by the general degradation you've made of foreign policy. Since a time when you've been a general secretariat, you've moved on to a simple general direction, which is neither direction nor general, because you don't really have the capacity for coordination, I'm not talking about all the officials of the Galician politics in your external promotion and projection, but you don't even have the capacity to coordinate the Government. You don't have, everyone goes free. This is a kingdom of tafts, in this government everyone goes to their ball as to their promotion and external projection. And I also want to comment on some formal aspects that I think are important, which also devalue this law. For example, I would like to refer to the fact that I have no report from the ESC. When you give so much importance to foreign trade, to the internationalization of our economy, to investment-gathering, it turns out to you that a law in this category does not seem to have to have the ESC report. I think it's a serious deficiency. You, in the documentation I have there, conceal all the allegations and reports made by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. They should be on the file and they're not. You also hide the deliberations and agreements of the Caex, of the External Action Council, and I'm not surprised they do. You referred to the unanimous support of the External Cooperation Council but they don't say a word about what happened in Caex. They did not have the support of the IGADI — which is the most important body in this country in international analysis and research — first. He didn't support her, and it would be for something. They didn't have the support of Fegamp and they didn't have the support of the Atlantic Axis. But that doesn't appear in the documentation. And then, the evidence of ricketsism is, of course, in the fact that I have an economic-financial memory that is nowhere to take it. I think that economic memory perfectly reflects the lack of ambition that this norm has. Now, look at what this memory says: "The regulation of this law does not cause any additional economic and financial impact, since it does not diminish the revenue and expenditure provided for in the various budgetary applications." I mean, you guys took a cut and stick to what they usually do and didn't bother to analyze the economic impact you should have, logically, a law that wants to project Galicia into the world. Because that's not free, it costs money. But besides, it's money that needs to be invested, because it's money that gives material yield, but mostly intangible yield, for a country. And I will not give you the data — I can give you later, which now does not give me time — of the comparative of what different autonomous communities in the Spanish state invest in, because it is proof of what they believe in their country and what they want for their promotion and external projection. You're obsessed with Catalonia. They actually have a kind of complex with Catalonia, but there are other territories, other communities, other nationalities, other nations in the state, which really have an ambitious policy and which devote money to it, because it doesn't come out for free. Look, with regard to the structure of the project, it's a Frankenstein law. Why? Because you brought together two laws in one, and it turns out that they made a law with an analyzed, structured, generated, planned part, with instruments, with resources, with means, which is that of development cooperation. And then they did another part that is absolutely deslaved and badly structured in form, which is the external action. Curiously, the development cooperation part was entrusted to an external consultant, negotiated with the sectors, and in the other there was none of this. That's why that result. And having made these general considerations, of general and formal content, I would like to go into detail and analyze some specific issues that I find particularly relevant, both geographically and sectorally. Of course, we don't want or believe that this law should be centered on the diaspora. It's not the law of diaspora, logically. It's not an immigration law. To begin with, you don't even have the competences of emigration within external relationships, it's another department that's dedicated to other things. We're not going to enter them now because it would be a bit prolific, and maybe I'd bring out the colors here about what you guys do. But I'm going to talk about geographic issues. Takes note, for example, that you do not consider the Spanish State as an area of external action. We thought they were colonized, but not so much, really! We thought they weren't so colonized. Of course, Galicia must, first of all, exercise its external action in the Spanish State, which is the outside of our country. It's the outside. And there is another area that is fundamental — and you don't really understand what it means — which is Portugal and the Lusophony. Because you dedicate eight articles to it, and it turns out that seven articles are intended to speak of the northern region of Portugal; and one, about Portugal and all the rest of the Lusophony, that is, about Portugal, about Brazil, about Angola, about Mozambique, about Cape Verde, about Guinea-Bissau... But what kind of vision do you have of Portugal and of the Lusophony if the northern region is part of the interior of the country, is part of Galicia's vocation and projection as territory, as a country, as a nation? It's not really external, speaking in real terms, of relationships. And we're talking about a territory that has 6.5 million inhabitants, which has more population than Denmark, than Finland or Ireland. And it must really be an Atlantic pole of development, integration, interrelationship, communication and projection of our country. But you don't have that vision, you understand the northern region to capture European funds. And that's how we're going! Here we go! They have no ambition at that projection. With regard to Portugal and the Lusophony, you don't understand what it means right now, for example, to enter the CPLP, but enter the big door, not the back door, as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs wants us to pass, as an appendix. We have the right to be at the CPLP as an associated body, not as a consultative body. Because we have reason to be — and then, if you want, I'll explain. And we also have to have a proposal to develop in all its potentials the Peace-Andrade Law, which you turned into wet paper, which did not develop in all the enormous potential it has because you really don't believe it. Of course, as far as Europe is concerned... well, not Europe, because you always talk about the European Union, which is not the same as Europe. We explained it once, but they didn't understand it. They have an absolutely reductionist view. And in this law we do not see the tools and instruments to have an external policy of defending our country's interests in all areas — and also in the European Union — and to have the ability to influence European policies, which is what other countries do: to influence European policies. And then there's the rest of the world. The rest of the world in this law doesn't exist, it's empty, it's white space. And this seems to us to be a statement of intent. You, in this sense, practice foreign politics, diplomacy, terraplanist; because there's the Atlantic and then there's an abyss, there's nothing else. They make no mention of how Galicia should be in these other geopolitical, geo-strategic spaces, which are now absolutely fundamental to this country. And there are people in this country who are very qualified to work in those areas. Look, as far as the sector is concerned, it has many euves, one of them is the predominance of this economicist perspective, which then translates into experiments like what you did with Pexga, which was ruinous, was disastrous, with the Confederacy of Entrepreneurs — they created 14 offices and it was a real fiasco, it cost a lot of money and it didn't serve for anything, or for very little. In the field of culture, it does not go beyond the common places and the vagueities. In the field of language promotion abroad, look, before promoting language abroad they have to promote in Galicia, in Galicia!, as the country's own language, as the country's vehicle language in all areas, so that it is not a persecuted language, a language subject to apartheid. [[Applause]] That's the first thing to do to promote language in the world. As for what you say about R & D+i, "promote Galicia as a pole of scientific and technological excellence," it's a humiliating statement. But that's not done with a law, that's done with budgets, budgets and decent treatment for researchers in this country, who are currently being abused by the policies of the People's Party Union. And, look, I will finish by listing ten proposals that we offer to them in this Parliament for the debate, for the dialogue, for approximations and, if possible, for agreements. I hope you give me an answer to them. First. External relations must be a department with the highest institutional rank — at least as a general secretariat — that has the capacity to coordinate the whole of the Government; and not only the whole of the Government, but also has the capacity to dialogue and agree with the rest of the country's institutions and entities a foreign policy — with universities, with the municipalities, with the Fegamp, with the Atlantic axis; and finally with all the agencies that want it. Second. We must have a strategic, planned foreign policy with priorities. You can't do everything at the same time. And it must create and develop the country brand. You don't talk about a matter as fundamental as the country brand in this document. Third. The importance of processes and participation: Caex must be completely changed, it must be a participatory body, of momentum and also of evaluation of the policies of the Union. We must have stable instruments with means, and indeed with delegations abroad. We have made concrete proposals. We believe that Galicia must now have permanent delegations in Madrid, Lisbon and Brussels. It is essential, we must end the old care model, we must have another presence in the world, starting with these areas. That costs money, indeed, but results in a lot of benefits. Fourth. We have to have clear and ambitious objectives regarding the Lusophony, the entry into the CPLP, the creation of an observatory of the Lusophony and a development strategy of the Peace-Andrade Law. Fifth. Galicia's external promotion through sport. You completely ignore the role that elite sportsmen can have — Jabier Gómez Noya, Teresa Portela, Verónica Boquete... and, at last, many more — to promote the country's image. National selections, sports selections — as they want to be called — are also the picture of a country's projection in the world. They completely ignore him. Sixth. Galicia's international projection through culture. To that end, we think we need to create a body of our own, a institute, which can be called Castro's Rosaly, which can name an airport, which can name a star, but which can name all the largest that this country can make. And, by the way, if you want to create a matchlight, you have Pattern, you have Compostela and you have Castro's Rosalia, which is the largest figure this country has created throughout its history, and which is the best image, the best brand of country that Galicia can have in the world. Seventh. Galician international alignment with internationalism, linguistic diversity, pacifism, the defense of people's sovereignty. That too, for being a host country at this time so dramatic that the world lives. Eighth. Co-operation for development with the increase in the budget, putting Galicia in the middle of the state. We only ask for this and the creation of a Welsh development cooperation agency. Nineteen. Using the relational capital of the diaspora, the old one, but above all, the new diaspora, which we have to get back but which, as long as it doesn't come back, must also be a tool for promoting, boosting and projecting the country. It's over, Mr. President. We want a law of foreign policy of maximums, Mr. Rueda, not of minimums, an empowered and unprotected law, a law of Galicia and not of the Union, a law of all, not of the People's Party, not the law of a region or territory, but the law of a nation in the world called Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u10	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the non-amendant group, for the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos Couñago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u11	Thank you very much, President. Let me begin this speech with a warm memory for Carlos Mantilla's family, who left us this morning. From here on, the People's Group's recognition of a man with an unwavering political, professional and personal trajectory, to a good and generous German. From here we want to send a tight background to your family, which is going through very difficult times. Rest in peace, dear Carlos Mantilla. Focusing on the debate that today brings us here, I want to begin by congratulating the Government on the adoption of the Foreign Act of Action, because with this Galician law it will become, as the first vice president of the Union said, in the second autonomous community to adopt a legal instrument that enables it to optimize all the external projection capabilities recognized in state legislation. Furthermore, Galicia is going to become the first autonomous community to pass this regulation from institutional loyalty to the Spanish ensemble, without thus turning it into an instrument of confrontation and conflict with other state administrations. It is a law that will allow us to project Galicia into the world, to extract all its economic, touristic, linguistic, cultural, and solidarity potential; a law that will allow us to deepen our relationship with outer Galicia and claim links with the millions of Greeks who live far from our land; a law that will enable us to consolidate our relations in the euro region and with the countries of the Lusophony, and to convert or exploit this component of geostrategic bridge with the Lusophony, together with the set of the southern American cone; a law that allows us to improve cooperation for development, consolidating the solidarity vocation shown by Galicia from now on. It is a law born of dialogue, because it has its foundations in the Greek foreign action strategy, which has been adopted in this Parliament without any votes against, and a law enriched by dialogue, dialogue, among others, with the Government of Spain, with which we are able to reach an agreement which seems not to be sufficiently valued today. It is a law that we would like to adopt with as much consensus as possible, as was possible in the External Action Council, in which it passed without any vote against — with some abstention, it is true, but that indicates discrepancies in nuances and not the radical opposition which some groups have shown here today. It's a law that, like the Greek strategy of external action, has a vocation of survival beyond this or any other government, and that seeks to overcome the legitimate ideological differences to become a country instrument. The BNG, in addition to a nostalgic vision of the external action of the Fraga government — which, at last, we thank you deeply, even if the valuation is a little late, we thank you deeply for what it is worth, today we have a whole amendment from a conception of Galicia as an independent nation, a politically legitimate conception, but today they will have to recognize that it is not shared by more than just a minority of the Greek people. You consider a weakness what the Government of the Union, the party and the parliamentary group that supports it to be a fortress. You don't consider a fortress that we coordinate the external action of autonomous communities, municipalities, entities, with the state's external action set. And for us that is a full fortress. You aspire to an external action of a sovereignist character that does not count on the support of the people you intend to represent. They accuse us of lack of vision because they confuse that with simply having different visions. It's an unbalanced bill because they don't share our attitude towards the state's institutional architecture. And they qualify for self-limitation simply because they don't share the sense of belonging to a common project, which is Spain, which actually shares the vast majority of the Greeks. I do ask you one thing, Mr Bará. You made an effort here to hold your hand. And I sincerely believe that, if ideology was not an obstacle to achieving governments with parties — in theory — from different ideological orientations to theirs, it should not be an excuse — shouldn't it? — to not build a country and to reach consensus around the majority feeling of Galicia today. And that Galicia, today's Galicia, the Galicia you have to work for and what you have to work for, is a Galicia that feels as Greek as Spanish. And we therefore ask them to make contributions from this largely shared vision by the whole of the Greeks. And this, Your Honor, doesn't mean, at all, that we ask you to renounce your ideological postulates, just acknowledge that they don't match most of the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Applause]] May we come to those agreements that you have offered us, Mr. Bará. But today the reality is that what you're proposing is a Greek ministry of foreign affairs. And I agree with you that the Vice President of the Board, Mr. Rueda, would be a magnificent foreign minister. But don't rush, it's still young, it'll all be walking and there'll be time for me to handle those kinds of responsibilities. For now let us continue to pay attention to Galicia's external action and to the other obligations that occupy it in its day-to-day — which are many and are important —. Fortunately we have it today centered here, where it is necessary, in Galicia, that, of course, you cannot even give up the work that you are doing every and every member of the German Government. Anyway, I do have to recognize -- and I do it publicly, just as I did during the processing of the Greek outer action strategy -- the work of the Galician Nationalist Block. I've always known him. And since the deep discrepancy, today I also recognize you as willing to try to bring you closer and as well as to try to enrich the legal text that is presented to you. I can't say the same thing about the Socialist Group. And that's what if I thanked you, especially, during the processing of the Greek outer action strategy. I believe that the amendment presented by the Socialist Party of Galicia perfectly defines its political strategy: the defence of the excellence of any decision of the Sánchez government except when it comes to an agreement with the Galician Union — this is the only exception to the general rule of the Greek socialists, and it is certainly curious — and also a permanent insistence on lies that have already been denied on many occasions, but that you use them to elaborate conspiracy theories on the client action of the Galician Union abroad. I want to remind you that the only electoral agent who traveled abroad, funded from the budgets of the Galician Union, didn't have the People's Party's Card. Here's the news: "The Board paid a trip to Argentina from an election agent." If you have any doubt about that government, look at the picture accompanying the news. None of these two military knights in the People's Party. It was you. So I would appreciate it if you had done a better exercise of memory and a smaller exercise of demagogy, Mr. Aranguena. [[Applause]] In his amendment, there is no ideological vision, no minimal rigorous analysis, not even the slightest Galeguist aspiration. I don't call him a sovereign anymore, like the BNG. No, no, I say Galeguist. It's just that you've made a whole amendment with a completely recentralizing character. It is certainly a surprising question in a party that aspired to be the government partner of the second most voted party in Galicia — and it is increasingly explained why it is the BNG and you are not. I just have to tell you from the folio this one who presented that it is a bad exercise of literary styling, closer to the floral games than to a parliamentary document, filled with vagueness and politically so unfocused that it accuses us of mimetism with Catalan independence. Let's hear it! This, indeed, is an amendment to the whole of it, is an amendment to the whole course of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Because this law is founded in the Greek outer action strategy that we consent to 99% with the Socialist Group, then represented by Mr. Villoslada. And by the way, I have to recognize this one, as I did at the time, and it appears in the House's newspapers, the deep work he did during the processing of that law. But it seems that the failure to pay in the quotas of the Socialist Party in the Coruña completely discredits its work and its trajectory, even allowing its own group to land it in this House. The amendment is a complete amendment to the process of dialogue which has held the Union with the government of Mr. Sánchez, which seems to seem to be an insufficient guarantee of constitutionality and loyalty to the PSdeG itself. I don't understand. Do you distrust the view of then Minister Borrell — today, by the way, Vice-President of the European Commission and High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy —? Because, man, we agree with him, but it seems that you still have doubts about the agreements we have reached with Mr. Borrell and his team. It is an amendment to all the work done by Caex and Congacode — which, by the way, have referred to this law — a work that you put on the ground, with complete disparity, in a leaflet. This is the work you've done! This is your amendment to the whole thing! If we remove the heading and the signature, it's a racket! I, frankly, the only thing I can say from this leaflet is that it's a cheating, disparate, brawling, superficial, very frivolous, enormously lazy leaflet, and that, although it is formally signed by Mr. Caballero, I will not attribute to it the responsibility of his drafting, because I want to be fair to the leader of the Socialist Party of Galicia. I know he's signing this because it's up to him, but of course he's not the intellectual author of this leaflet. The author is anonymous, though I would say that easily recognizable in that definition — that Oscar Wilde was awarded — that he claimed of certain people who had long conversations with themselves and that they were so, so intelligent, that they sometimes didn't understand a single word of what they themselves said. [[Applause]] Finally, really, it seems to me very little serious, very little serious!, that you can come here to do the intervention that has been done for years, that has been developed by a multitude of people, that has contributions from all kinds of organizations that take Galicia's external action seriously and that have allowed us to come to a meeting point, to a point of consensus, where probably not a hundred percent the sensibilities of all and each of these actors, but in which a balance has been achieved in which they all feel reasonably represented and therefore can give their support to a law that we present here today; a law that, during their parliamentary procedure, should be enriched. That's what I ask you to do, work together. I ask the Socialist Party of the Greeks to abandon this contemptuous attitude, this attitude of not by no means, this attitude of constant criticism — including the texts agreed with the national representatives of their own party — and to start doing something for Galicia. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, less self-sufficiency, less arrogance, more contributions, more useful proposals, or, if you prefer, more lordship, less samba and more work. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u12	Thank you, Mr. Pazos. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica of amending groups. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Aranguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Pazos, in his usual tone of falsity, lack of respect, systematically lack of respect, and in his style of parliamentaryism which seems to try to emulate Jack Nicholson in O resplendor—because you often remind me, at least, that film—comes here with a kind of animosity, animadversion, which I do not understand at parliamentary headquarters. [[Applause]] But, well, you'll know... I understand it's theater. But as a theater, it's bad; that is, it's very bad theater. But, of course, I urge you again to remind me of a Jack Nicholson overacted at The Glitter. You speak of our amendment, and you speak of defense of the arrogance of the government of Sanchez. Neither in the amendment nor in what I said here today have I made no defense of any kind, neither the arrogance nor the non-surpassion of the government of Sanchez. I didn't talk about the Central Government for anything. And he says our amendment shows that we have no ideological vision. But what ideological vision do you have in the field of external action? What is the ideological view of external action? We frankly do not know what that ideological vision is when it comes to promoting Galicia, foreign trade in Greece, bringing investment or facilitating cooperation and development, of things that have little to do with ideology and much more with management — of which, of course, you are systematically lacking in this matter. And for the record, it tells us that it has a recentralizing character. All I can think of is speculating about is whether you consumed [some kind of substance] when you heard me today or when you read our amendment. [[(Expression taken from the Journal of Sessions by the President and by the speaker himself in the light of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure.)]] Because speaking of a recentralizing character... [[Strong murmurers.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u14	One moment, one moment! Excuse me, Mr. Aranguena! I'm sorry! [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please! I interrupted the debate because it is not normal, from a parliamentary forum, to make an allusion to the consumption of any kind of substance. Because, among other things, we're listening to a lot of people, and that can be a very poorly induced policy from Parliament itself. Then I ask you to remove that expression.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u15	Of course I'll take it off.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u16	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u17	You'll understand he had an ironic character.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u18	But watch out for the ironies. I agree, and I'm the first defender of irony, you know me well. But watch out for that kind of irony. Irony has to be able to do it and know when it's done. That's an irony that didn't convince me much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u19	I have no problem removing my irony. Pleased and delighted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u20	Thank you very much. Withdrawal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u21	We do not mention in the first intervention that in the field of development cooperation we have no difference — what happens in the rest — any particular objection to be made or to put this law on. The problem is that Galicia, beyond law and paper, as always happens, dedicates 0.06% of its budget — this year and the previous year, 2020 and 2021 —. That is, 11 times less than the classic demand of 0.7% of GDP. With this investment in cooperation for development, you can make a lot of laws, but very little utility and work. The European chapter of the law does not contain any news of interest and, of course, nothing that would lead to a reversal of the fact that the Galician Foundation — which aims to promote Galician external action in such a fundamental area as the European Union — saw its budget reduced by about 50% in the last decade, agreeing with the governments of Mr Feijóo. A Mr Feijóo, who, despite the fact that both in Brussels and in Madrid today, is playing the part of our participation in European funds, is vital - not less than EUR 400 million each year and is not guaranteed at all - he does little for Europe, perhaps because — as he said before — he completely lacks the knowledge of that free language in the international world, which is English, which he will certainly not find comfortable in that area. On the other hand, if you do a little bit more for Latin America, with the problem that many times the people you take photos end up in prison, like Pemex's ex-Director General, Mr. Emilio Lozoya. What needs to be done in the field of external action, in our opinion, is to be clear where the shootings of the world go in the twenty-first century - the reason why it seems that the statesmen of the Union are being ignored - and to design a coherent strategy, to take advantage of increasingly scarce public resources, and to know that the presence of the 21st century gives way to virtuality; to know where, for example, to do a market study traditionally had to be on the ground today, one can obtain information without moving practically. Speaking of designing a strategy -- to finish -- besides painting on a paper a series of objectives and, at best, indicators of results, it would be good for this strategy, Egaex, if it were to be reviewed and analysed by those who have to do so, which is this Parliament, which, in theory, would have to receive account of it every year, which is not met, as it does not meet with the minimum required periodicity of the Galician Council of External Action. So what we believe needs to be modified, what we need to amend by means of partial amendments and what we need to achieve is that the external action of the Government of Galicia really programme through Egaex, beyond the paper, which unites itself — and for that there is no need for law — the direction of the external action of Galicia by healing and overcoming the current dispersion and, in addition, reforming the Igape to convert it into a real dynamizing organism of the external economic action of Galicia, which is what has not been until now and what would have to become and will not become with this law. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u22	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u23	The BNG brings here a proposal for maximums and not minimums; that is, the idea that this law has to aspire to the maximum and not to stay on the roof but below. We ask for a law of a nation or, if they want, a historical nationality or, if they want, a country. But it's just that I tell you they're complicated because, when the French Republic, through its Ministry of Culture, declared Galicia a country invited to the Lorient Festival, you, in the press release, spoke of "invited territory." That's the difference: you pull down and we throw up; we have ambition, country ambition. I think that's an important vision. Second, the absolute majority don't give the possession of absolute truth or take the reason away from others. In any case, they should be the foot not for the imposition of absolute truths, but for the proposition, for the debate, for dialogue and for the agreement; especially on a subject of the special transcendence that this one has, that will mark the future not only of this legislation, but of forthcoming legislation. And we have the legitimate ambition to rule this country. We are the main force of the opposition and we should have something to say in a rule that will rule out the fates of this country over several legislatures. And they don't ask us to renounce our principles, of course, because we are nationalists and we are not going to give up that, but we also have traditional schools of Greek nationalism for decades, and that's why we are internationalists with all that it means. And being an internationalist means wanting for all the peoples of the world the same respect and dignity that we want for ourselves. That's being an internationalist, that's also our view of this norm. [[Applause]] I told them to do foreign policy costs effort, it costs professional equipment, it costs resources, it costs resources. By the way, I would like them to apply the same criteria they use for the part -- which is a single title -- of development cooperation -- as far as structuring, rigor, planning and systematization -- to the rest of the law, because in this is about planning, projects, means, strategy, resources, etc. And outside there's no talk. He said it was investment. Data of the year 2018 — I say by economic and financial memory, which did not refer to this, I do not know if Mr Rueda later can tell us something about it, if he will intervene in the closing shift —: Castile and León, 7 million euros in external action; Canary Islands, 7 million euros in external action; Galicia, 8 million euros in external action; Euskadi, 53 million euros; Andalusia, 50 million euros; Catalonia, 78 million euros. It's clear who plays in the division of honor, who plays in the champions of outer action, and who plays in regional categories. We have to change this frame. That's why they can't put an economic memory on a bill with that reductionist, minimalist and dependent vision. We have to change that frame, Mr. Rueda. Look, I'd like to talk, even if it was brief, about Portugal and the Lusophony, because it's one of the key elements of this law. We would like you, within this legal framework that we have in the state, to have the vision and ambition that you have, for example, in Extremes. Extremadura has a country policy — or community policy, or region, or what they want — with regard to Portugal; they want to play in Portugal, they want to have something to say in Portugal. They have a country strategy, they have arranged lobbying for that. And they also have a teaching strategy for Portuguese in Extreme that gives a thousand turns to Welsh. They have five times as many Portuguese students as we have in Galicia, when they have one million inhabitants, compared to 2.7 or 2.6 million people in Galicia. This is, of course, a demolition X-ray of the lack of interest and vision that you have with regard to Portugal and the Lusophony. We would like them to say something about the CPLP issue, which was agreed in a resolution of this Parliament on the BNG proposal last year. We're waiting for it to be fulfilled. Finally, we find it a serious mistake to conceive of this law. Look, the law of foreign policy of a country, of a community, of a nationality, of a nation, of a state... should be a matter of state; understand me, a matter of state. It should be a great deal of agreement on the basis of dialogue, negotiation, participation of all institutional, social, political, cultural and economic agents. Because external action — not just this law — should not be the project of a party, as is this – mention, Mr. Rueda – must be the project of a country, of a whole country, not of a part of a country. It must not be the short-sighted project, as this rule seems to be, but the solid and lasting proposal, at least in the next decade, which is going to be a fundamental decade for the future of our country and for the future of the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u24	Thank you, Mr Bará. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] [[Pause.]] We're waiting to see if the advisor enters for the debate of the draft population impulse law. No, we're still in the plenary. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It'll be a matter of a minute, I imagine. There he is, there's no problem. Comprehensive discussion of Galicia's draft demographic impulse law
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u25	Amendments to this bill have been tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. They're both returning. For the presentation of the bill, the Social Policy Counsellor, Mrs. Fabiola García Martínez, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. "The demographic ageing of the population of Greece is higher than that of the European Economic Community as a whole. This fact is further emphasized when examining the most extensive rural areas of Galicia separately, where generational renewal is at a critical time. Changing this trend is a preferred but difficult-to-achieve goal, because its goals are necessarily achieved in the long term. But if we do not act over time — and now we are — in the near future the situation will be irreversible. We cannot afford an aging Galicia, because this constitutes the main obstacle to the renewal of our human resources and a serious threat to our future." All these words aren't mine. It was announced by President Manuel Fraga Iribarne at the 1992 Autonomy State debate, which was already present in his first investment debate in January 1990. Three decades later this certificate diagnosis still maintains its vigil. The bill we bring to this Parliament today is the culmination of a task: to place the people's issue in the political debate. A task in which Galicia was a pioneer then, since our approach to demographics had no parallelism in any other autonomous community and in which Galicia continues to be a pioneer today, because the Demographic Push Law we are discussing today will be the first one at the national level. Today, when everyone in the Western world speaks of demography in the same terms that were done here thirty years ago, Galicia continues to be at the forefront of raising this issue, for the first time, to a rule of law. It's not an isolated law, but the logical continuation of a demographic work that has attracted special intensity over the past eleven years. The hemerothecas are the efforts of the Galician Union to bring the demographic issue to the national agenda and to the European agenda. We have brought together a number of communities with similar concern and we have given our opinions to the European institutions. And more recently, President Feijóo achieved at the 2017 Conference of Presidents that the Government of Spain had created the High Commissioner for the Demographic Challenge. Returning to the Galician sphere, the consecration of demography at the highest political priorities has had some effects of those that have benefited all the Greek families for years: the Welcome Card, a direct economic aid for the upbringing of young children who have already reached about 60,000 homes, and the children's homes, 81 centres that have been created and created possibilities for reconciliation in the smaller municipalities of Galicia, in the rural municipalities, where there has never been such a service before; the important extension of the public network of children's schools, which has assumed that since 2009 children's care squares have doubled to children aged between 0 and 3 years; and this year 2020 the approval of the total gratuity of child education for the second and successive children, a measure with which, once again, Galicia has become leader at the national level. The Demographic Push Law comes to perform a double function: on the one hand, shielding and consolidating all progress made over these years and, on the other, moving forward towards a demographic policy of consensus and long-term which is useful for Galicia, and not only for the coming legislation, but for the next decades. Throughout its 106 articles and 13 provisions, this law deals with demography in its complex and polyedral character. It's not just a matter of making it easy for families with children or wanting to have them, which too. It's not just a matter of moving forward towards an easier reconciliation and towards a more rational schedule, too. It's not just about giving young people the opportunities they demand and deserve, that they too. It's not just about the uptake of a new population, especially through the promotion of the Greeks from abroad, which too. It's not just about active and healthy aging and promotional -- which also -- nor is it just about the necessary territorial balance and vertebration of Galicia, which, of course, also. The law that we present today addresses all these issues, their interrelationships, the consequences and the repercussions and how they result in such a diffuse context and, at the same time, as broad as the demographic impulse. Of course, it does not go down to very specific aspects, nor does it fall into the concrete regulation of the measures that will be implemented over the next few years. It would be against any legislative technique to seek to establish in a law aspects that are defined more accurately and agilely in a text of lower rank. I also assumed a very negative interference in the agenda of the self-governments that happen to us. This law does not intend to impose unmovable demographic impulse measures, but rather the guiding principles that should guide all these actions. Ladies and gentlemen, the rulers and legislators have a responsibility to our peers, but also to our descendants. Working together to achieve the best law of possible demographic impulse is part of our commitment to the Greeks of the morning. [[Applause]] The truth is, I have to confess that I feel a certain disappointment when I see both amendments to the whole of this bill. By reviewing your texts, there is not a single argument with sufficient specific weight to justify a rejection as frontal to a bill as important to Galicia as this one. I find nuances, I find topical questions or political assessments that could be considered in the debate on the articulation of this law, but no matter as irresoluble as to substantiate an amendment to the whole. In other words, and by quoting the Rules of Procedure of this Parliament, in the documents you have submitted, there is no reason that you claim that this law is irrelevant or that your principles or spirit are wrong. It is not the time to discuss concrete aspects of the articulation of the law, because that will be the mission of the presentation that will be set up in the coming days. If I'd like to review the reasons that motivated the two amendments to the whole that are taken into consideration today. Regarding the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia last week, I attended the Sectoral Conference on Demographic Reaction, in which the Central Government presented to us the National Strategy, which, in our judgment, is disappointing. It has no specific measures or references to the actual cost of services and, above all, it has no definition of funding mechanisms. And yet in spite of all this evidence that the Board has already informed Vice President Ribera, Galicia will help to improve the national strategy in the face of the demographic challenge. We'll do it with observations like the ones we've already referred to the Vice President and the ones we're committed to sending in the next few days. The constructive attitude of the Galician Union towards this document drawn up by the Central Government contrasts with the Socialist Group's strong negative attitude to the draft law of demographic impulse, which itself has concrete initiatives and with an investment of about EUR 800 million per year well-detailed in its economic memory. In their amendment to the whole of it they ensure that no account has been taken of the approaches they have made to this bill within the Yellow Observatory of Demographic Dynamization, and that's false. As I moved on to the day you were your representative in this body, Mrs. Noela Blanco, the two thirds of the forty-two claims of the Socialist Group were accepted. Even if that wasn't enough for you to refuse to present a whole amendment, I guarantee you that we will continue to hear your hand to achieve in Galicia the same level of consensus that Galicia offers at the national level. With regard to the amendment by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, in its case, I cannot refer to the allegations they made before the Galego Demographic Dynamics Observatory, because they did not make any. He really draws attention to the insistence in his text on the adjective "natalist"; a ball name that was already shaking in the 1990s against those leaders who were trying to introduce demography into the public debate. Of course, in this law there are no help to families; by including them, you call us natalists, and if we didn't include them, they would say that we lack ambition. But reality is always the same: many homes need and deserve all kinds of help, and that's why, of course, we want to incorporate them into the text. [[Applause]] But the draft law of demographic impulse also addresses other issues that concern you and the Council of Galicia too, such as the ageing and return of the emigrant population. In this sense, I hope you agree with me that it is a given hope that in 2019 the best migration balance in the historical series would be recorded and that 6,000 young men and girls would arrive in Galicia more than they left. In their amendment to the whole they claim that they miss a definition of the vital stages of older people or an express reference to single-person homes formed by older women. I am sure that we will be able to reach an agreement in the debate on the articulateness of this law, but they will agree with me that none of these points invalidate the bill we present to them today. It's not for nothing my intention to influence their way of opposing, but the truth is that it turns out to me, at least, curious that a parliamentary group that says they are concerned about Galicia's future wants to cancel a whole legal text that faces our most important challenge in the coming decades. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia has begun to take account of the demographic challenge before anyone else. Today we have the opportunity to legislate about him before anyone else. I really ask you not to take this opportunity to be, once again, pioneers and reference at the national level. After eleven intense years of work in favor of reconciliation, support for homes with children and the right to grow up in our surroundings, this law of demographic impulse will consolidate in the highest of our legal order one of those matters of which no one spoke and which, fortunately, everyone today considers one of the most important issues to profile the future of Galicia and Galicia of the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u27	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We started the round of defense of amendments to the whole, of return, and of positioning with respect to the bill. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, you have the floor to Mrs. Marina Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u28	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. The demographic reality of Galicia is worrisome: we have lost thousands of Welsh and Welsh; for every galley that is born, two are dead; we have lost population; and demographics are the worst in Europe and Spain. We're less and less. All the experts warned us that demographic evolution must turn on all alarm lights. It's a vital matter that in good measure also reflects how Galicia loses strength, loses life and loses people. The failure of the economic, social and well-being model in Galicia with the Government of the People's Party is also evident. Addressing this demographic challenge is a priority for Galicia that we want. Galicia that we want is an entrepreneurial Galicia, which generates employment, which strengthens the welfare system for people and the provision of quality public services throughout the territory, we live where we live. In this Galicia you can overcome the demographic challenge because with employment, housing and good public services there is life and, therefore, there are people. Well, after so many announcements and propaganda about demography, today the Government of the Union brings to the House the so-called population law. The approach to focusing on demographic revitalization in a legislative text has always seemed interesting to us, but when we discovered the legislative text, the Socialist Parliamentary Group confirms that there is no commitment, no direction or action to deal with the demographic challenge in the Government of the People's Party. They don't know what to do in a moment and context as important as Galicia's living. They prefer to play with confusion and propaganda with a law that is wet paper and that shows the very incompetence of the German Government in demographic matters. As we're going to explain below, this bill is a mix of generalities and vagueities, without concretion or measures and without commitment to funding; that is, an escape forward, with an autonomous government surpassed by the very reality that we live. There is something that we have to be clear to all, all the groups here represent citizenship: Galicia needs a change in the socio-economic and assistance model to strengthen population and reverse, as far as possible, the escalation of the population. Indeed, it is a fundamental theme for our citizenship and for the organization and restructuring of our population, taking into account the care we must give to the aging population, which is growing. I come from the province that leads the population aging, Ourense. Living more years, indeed, is a long-term success achieved by our welfare state. But in Ourense and Galicia there is another key, which is the brain drain, the emigration of the best-prepared generation of history, of those young and young people who were part of that generation, and by what their parents and mothers fought for a higher education; that which many of them could not receive. All parents and mothers always want their sons and daughters to have what they didn't have. That's how the best-prepared generation in our history was born. What they didn't know was that, at the end of their studies, a large majority would be faced with the disunity of having to decide between a precarious or unskilled job or having to leave Galicia. Part of this generation has chosen this last option and today they bring their talent and knowledge to other countries or cities outside Galicia. This means that Galicia invested in a talent that it then exported. There's a low birth rate and this is also due, in part, to those people of fertile age who had to pack up because of lack of opportunities. Today, these children and children, with Greek roots, are growing up in other countries or cities outside our land. At the National Congress of Population of 2014, since the Department of Geography of the University of Santiago de Compostela, they had warned of the Welsh casuistry with a document that they held as "The Chronicle of Announced Ageing", where they recognized textually: "Galice must now face the demographic decline, with a tremendously regressive natural balance, and a remarkable ageing of her population, both in rural and urban environments, aggravated by a strong emigration of young people to the outside in a new wave that recalls the classic emigrant episodes of our community." It is therefore essential to make policies geared towards improving the conditions of a youth who had to forcefully prolong their youth and wait, more than other generations, at an adult stage according to the autonomy that this requires. We can't obviously draw attention to the fact that the bill presented, although it was already part of the commitments of the Government of Greece since 2016, begins its administrative process almost three years later. It should also be remembered that the annual regulatory plan approved by the Galician Board for execution during the 2018 exercise included, through the Social Policy Council, the referral of a draft law of demographic impulse, without such a prediction being met and without any justification for any of the evidenced delay. It is necessary to deduce a certain determination and conscious delay to adopt and develop such regulations. All this despite the fact that, as can be seen, the measures envisaged already exist to a large extent at present; therefore, they do not constitute remarkable news and can be put in place without need of any rule of law. The fact is that the proposed bill has a very generic nature — on too many occasions, only descriptive — which shows an excess of indeterminations and a failure of concretions in its provisions. It also highlights the lack of content and realization regarding the means — mainly financial and material — necessary to achieve the objectives promulgated. The greater deepening, not even the confusion and insufficient drafting of the additional first provision solves this issue, because it only refers to a very small part of the expenditure that will have to be incurred. Even so, we must not forget that the draft law is obvious — we understand that consciously — and does not collect — other legislative texts differ — any article relating to the different sources of funding provided for in order to comply with the numerous plans, programmes or measures reflected. We are concerned that the resources allocated are nothing more than the result of the sum of various items already existing at the current budgetary level for the various offices, without representing provisions that are effectively innovative in the draft law or concrete actions to ensure that the adoption of this is of some benefit. homogeneity with regard to the various sectoral issues reflected in it shines by its absence, because on many occasions they are too general and they do not develop, and in other cases they simply collect aspects that are to a large extent already regulated at present in different sectoral regulations of lower rank. Consequently, the inconsistencies of presenting a rule of law in order to implement the measures set out in this proposal, as many of them could already be put in place or approved without any rule. Any process is missing for the realization or timing of the bill, as well as controls on the degree of compliance that is deemed relevant. He wants the Government of Galicia to move towards the future how to justify its lack of initiatives in this regard and is more concerned to give headlines that legal measures have been adopted — although to a large extent a mere declaration of intent — than to really reverse the demographic situation. In our view, this is a matter on which no formulation of a partisan, media or propaganda character should have been accepted, as is happening on the part of the Galician Union. There is no provision for the realization of any specific programming class; no control measures are also collected, with the inclusion of an evolution calendar with demographic or social indicators that determine and that allow for the assessment of the adequacy over time of the proposed measures or objects. Far from taking advantage of and from the experience of recent years to advance the objectives of the bill, it is limited to collecting existing policy measures. This bill should act on very different aspects of reality, and, above all, force concrete and sustained actions over time. And the fact is that it's more of plans or programs than legal regulations, so the bill seems to be headed for a mere propagandistic dimension. The party itself in support of the Government of Galicia carried in its 2016 electoral programme that would pass this law through a great political and social pact; which, in all light, did not happen because of the lack of will of dialogue on the part of the Union, which decided to present a bill without taking into account the arrivals of the rest of the political groups. This law does not create a political or social agreement, and it does not have a dimension, orientation, funding and measures to reverse the current situation. In addition, it must be remembered that this same political party leading the Union this year gathered in its electoral programme that would adapt the text to the new social and economic circumstances born from the crisis of the Covid-19, and that, of course, objective and palming it was not. For all this, it is clear that the bill issued must be rejected and returned to the Galician Union for its review, given the transcendence that the demographic challenge has for Galicia, and further below the context in which we find ourselves derived from the pandemic. On 30 October, the vice-president for the Transition and Demographic Reto highlighted the commitment in this issue, which will materialise in the incorporation, for the first time, of a specific chapter for investments dedicated to the demographic challenge, projects that will focus on economic reactivation in areas affected by depopulation: access to services on equal terms in the rest of the territory; digital connectivity in rural areas; drive to housing, tourism sustainability plans and development of urban agendas in priority areas; and also social services provision and boosting the endogenous resources of each territory through the necessary coordination of the Government with the autonomous communities and local entities, which is very important. Important crises — as we face this pandemic — can come out of important opportunities for action in the face of problems that have already existed but that the coward has shown and made visible. Since the vice-presidentship of the Demographic Rete, cross-sectional measures, accompanied by important jointing of the offices against the fight against depopulation — vincellated to innovation processes in territorial management, will be adopted, and will facilitate coordination between administrations and society itself, vital to achieving results in the medium and long term. Galicia has an obvious potential that we must be able to take advantage of. The creativity itself, the associative tissue in the municipalities and cooperatives, the producers, the entrepreneurs, are one of the main tools that we must push to fight against the economic and social decline within the framework of the demographic challenge. It is vital, in this sense, a firm bet for our rurals and prevent environmental degradation so as to recover the great attraction that you gifted Galicia from an obvious addition. Equal opportunities do not exist without services and job opportunities — regardless of territory — so it is a basic pillar to fix population. No less important are the geographical and cross-border peculiarities, so the Government of Spain has approved the common strategy of cross-border development between Spain and Portugal, focused on the specific attention of the municipalities that border Portugal and that Galicia so much affects us. In concrete proposals, such as pilot projects that work with resources on the ground to serve as evidence banks where to incubate multisectoral projects in unpopulated areas, in the bill that the Galician Union presents do not implement actions of silence or defined budget proposals. In addition, there is an obvious vacuum in the coordination or transversality of areas that reflect a project that works, so we're faced with an empty law that only serves to give a headline but that, when you read it, it's empty of content. It's a window law, but unfortunately, without content, because it doesn't commit to shielding services that guarantee to fix the population. Paradoxically, the policies of the Government of the People's Party in Galicia in recent years go against the philosophy that requires the demographic challenge, by cutting services in public health, education, communications, accessibility and commitment for enterprise — especially in the most depressed areas of population —. Most of the bill presented by the Board actually gives rise to a Christmas line that leaves out other really essential keys and the transversality of the areas itself. It gives the feeling that this law did not go through all the councils — an essential aspect of addressing the demographic challenge. Where is the work of the rest of the boards? Or doesn't it have to do with them? The trust that citizenship should deposit in a project with a range of laws related to the demographic challenge is incompatible with the fact that the Union promotes the closure, for example, of health services such as the Parish; it is incompatible with the closure of schools in rural areas; it is incompatible with the dependency cuts in recent years, which provide the assistance that a population needs to reinforce; it is incompatible with the abandonment of rural by the Government of the People's Party; it is incompatible with the lack of reinforcement policies for our youth; it is incompatible with the lack of opportunities for entrepreneurship and the talent associated with the territory itself. [[Applause]] Finally, you cannot write a title totally opposed to the action's account. They commit services, they block health, education, talent in rural areas, they support rural enterprise, they block services and accessibility, and we will support a recapitulation in this sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u29	Thank you very much, Mrs Ortega. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u30	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. I came with another courage, but, of course, I hear you, Counselor, and come here to the defensive. And I also tell you that your attitude tells you more about the shortcomings of the Government itself and the shortcomings of this law — since, by the way, you have said virtually nothing; only, about the Nationalist Galego Block. So, man, it really seems to give them up to the urticaria to give the political debate and the substantive debate, which is what the amendments to the whole and this House want. Because, I don't know. [[Applause]] Maybe they want this to happen without pain or glory. There is a political and fundamental problem in this law. Besides, I think, Counselor, the beginning of your intervention in this show. Because, which brings us here a speech by Fraga of 1992 as an example of the relevance of this legal text, is to take the hands to the head. Do you remember the Fraga, who was a gentleman who ruled for many years in this country—in addition to his vital trajectory that we will not remember now—and who was shocked that in his life he had not touched a condom? [[Applause]] At least my generation didn't give him any heed. But what you repeated — and it was terrifying that he said it in 1992 but I think the worse you say it today in 2020 — is that we cannot afford to be an aging country. Look, they age people, not countries. Yes, we can afford to be an aging country, because that means that we live longer years, that we gain life expectancy, and that is synonymous with social well-being. So yes, we can afford to be an aging country. That's not a problem. It's something good and it's something to be proud and proud of. The challenge of this country is to adapt to that reality, which is not solely Galician, which belongs virtually to all Western societies, and above all to European societies. The challenge we face — and for what this law should act — is precisely to face and try to put medium and long-term solutions to the structural problems that this country has been carrying out not for decades but for centuries. But if we also see the reality and demographic photography of this country as a problem — which is what you moved in your intervention too — I remind you that since 1989, with the exception of three and a half years, it has always ruled the People's Party. They're facing the reflection of their own policies. Are things going wrong? [[Applause]] Well, we also know what it's due to. I told them to come in another mood. I was going to start my speech by congratulating them on something, and now it's like this... something shocking. But I'll give it to you. I just wanted to start by breaking up certain topics and giving them honest and sincere congratulations from the BNG, especially from a part of the explanatory statement — the first paragraph — with a diagnosis that we believe to be correct and that focuses on the complexity that we see in the demography of the planet, above all — I insist — of Western societies, and also of Galicia. We think it's a correct diagnosis of the situation, it's a diagnosis that we've shared since BNG. But I also tell you that everything that comes from there – – and now I will turn to the underlying problem and arguments that support the refund amendment presented by the BNG today – is contrary to what I pick up precisely the first paragraph of the explanatory statement, and will serve far beyond the propaganda that we have been accustomed to for four years now. Because it will not correct – – I insist – the underlying problems, the structural problems that this country is experiencing and that are the cause of Galicia's demographic reality. And that's why we're presenting this refund amendment, an amendment that we can sum up on three ideas that motivate the unfavorable position, or disagreement, of the BNG with the political approach to addressing the Greek demographic reality. It's three ideas I'll try to synthesize. It's a law that is indeed full of declarations of intentions, generalities and many occurrences — which I shall then quote —. Secondly, it's a law that haunts failed Christmas policies. And it's a wrong principle to reduce demography solely to a sum or a remainder between deaths and births. It's not that simple, it would be much easier to intervene about them if it were so. The demonstration of the failure of your own Christmas policies — which Fraga has already begun in the 1990s and in which you are now insistent — are the results that you have reaped in recent years. And I give you the example of the demographic dynamization plan -- they called it that -- which you approved in 2013. It was the 2013-2015 demographic dynamization plan horizon 2020. So it seemed like it was a long time, but it's today. You were aiming to respond to the demographic challenges of this country, that Galicia had to have a number of children per woman on the European average. And they cited an exact figure, which was 1.59 children per woman. I think it's left over. And all the groups here we know what reality these policies have achieved. To insist on that path is a mistake. It's not going to be good for anything, among other things, because demography isn't about fixing an adequate number of inhabitants within a country. It's something else, and it has much more to do with the economy than with birth. And, thirdly, it is a law – – devoted to this – that does not act on the two great elements, in our understanding, that should center the text, which are the migratory movements – basically to curb the expulsion of the population, especially new and formed population, towards other places in the Spanish State and elsewhere in the world – and to adapt Galicia to its own reality in the 21st century, which is that we live ever more and more. Women's life expectancy is 86 years old, and that's great, it's a wonder. Because what do we want to have new societies?, a very higher mortality rate?, do we want to reduce life expectancy? No, no one. No country in the world faces demographics thinking that we can't get old, but how to get the conditions of social well-being and the material conditions that enable us to develop a vital project throughout all our stages of life with the best and highest rates of well-being for the population. I insist that it's a vague law: it will promote, it will support, it will push, it will develop... when? In what way? What's your goal? Between going to the maximum concretion and saying nothing there's an intermediate point that should be what this law had. He's a generalist. He's inconcrete. He literally said the Economic and Social Council in its report that it is full of mere declarations of very generic intentions and commitments — beyond, moreover, to collect a compendium of occurrences which even the ESC itself tells them it doesn't make much sense to put in this law. It's also true that, of course, the vaccination card in children's schools because I wasn't going to go to the museum law. Well, yes, better this one. What are the occurrences? I quote a few. One is to publish the crop balance in the CEO. For what? What's your goal? Not an unknown data. It is published annually by the IGE. It is published by municipalities. I don't know what the goal is, I don't know if it's to make a national duo the fact that more people die than are born — by the way, consecutively and unstoppable from 1986 until today. Publish an annual report on the cost of raising. And why not life expectancy linked to the conditions in which we live — life expectancy in good health? Book family parking at shopping malls, or create a kind of commercial stamp — family friendly, eco frienly.... And we don't know if in the end it's the same companies that violate workers' conciliation rights that end up putting that quality seal on the door. [[Applause]] And to me — also a little by professional default — what most fascinated me was that of forwarding the prime time on Galician television. And I would hardly dare say, without fear of being mistaken, that they will declare themselves insubmission in San Marcos. A plan without cracks, which is a question!, to address the profound demographic change of Galicia and one of the major challenges that this country has indeed faced. We also support our amendment to return on the basis of these failed Christmas policies. There's a perverse identification of demography and birth throughout the law. And this is myopic, it's clumsy, but above all it's ideological, counselor. And that's where our refund amendment comes in. In fact, this is rather an extended family law, with a concept, by the way, of deeply reactionary family, because you reduce it only to children's families, families with younger children in charge. And, in a law of demographic impulse, and given the same definition as you do in the law of what is demographic impulse, I wonder what happens to the homes where people live alone -- most of them women -- with pensions from farming, widowhood or non-contributory. Doesn't the demographic impulse go with them because they're in the menopause? We're wondering what happens to homes where three people under the age of 35 share their apartment, which they don't get to be emancipated because wages with precarious contracts won't make it to the end of the month. Don't they have to have a fundamental and central role in this law — that they don't? Or what happens, for example, to a mother — single-parent family by her own decision — who barely arrives at the end of the month, and to whom she is devoted in all the law, in all the law!, two additional provisions to say that they will do what they had to do ten years ago, how is it to create the register of single-parent families of this country or to draw up a plan, and we don't know how or what budget or what conditions? [[Applause]] All this – – I insist – is excluded from the law and not only because of clumsiness, not because of ignorance, not because of political myopia, but because of an ideological vision of what demography is and which is radically in contradiction with the vision that not only has the Nationalist Block Galego but also the Observatory of Demography itself, which has produced a wonderful report for the Government of more than four hundred pages and in what is addressed in its complexity, in such a polyedral context, the demography or the demographic challenge of our country. What we say from the BNG is that, starting with, the subject of the law cannot be the families — and less reduce the family to the idea of a child family. It has to be the whole population, all of it, regardless of the life stage, the age we have, whether we have a family or not, or the family model to which we belong. In other words: or the policies collected in this law — particularly those principles of what you were talking about — are meant to create the living and decent working conditions, to guarantee the right of access to public services or fundamental rights such as housing — especially in the case of young people and single-parent families — or it will not change anything, because virtually everything that collects the law is what they have been doing in the last ten years. I don't know, but, seeing that your goal was to increase the birth rate in this country and we're going against it, not even giving them that goal that we don't share – and now I'll explain why – we think it's going to change anything. And I say that there is no need to "fecchiate" the fertility rate or the birth rate, because the demographic variables that will most affect -- and they are already affecting the demographic reality of this country -- are, in one band, the migrations -- I insist, we must stop the expulsion, especially from new people, from this country, but above all create the material living conditions that allow Galicia to live and work, regardless of where she was born -- and, secondly, adapt to demographic reality. Being old and old is good, it's good, it's positive, and what it means is that we earn well-being and decent living conditions. It's not a problem, it's not a problem, rather the opposite. [[Applause]] The differential trait of Galicia – and with this I am going to finish –, the great acceleration, which made Galicia the vanguard of the demographic transition with regard to our own environment, the Spanish State itself, of the other Member States of the European Union, was emigration, the fact of losing for decades the two-way population: the people who were leaving and, in particular, the children and children who did not have them here. There's a Galician Demographer from CESIC, who's been emigrant, who's been working in Madrid for many years, who's Dolores Puga, who told them there in the Senate -- specifically speaking of that strategy of the demographic challenge -- "The problem is that Galicians don't have children, they have them in the Basque Country, in Berlin and in London. And it's been like this for decades." So the priority objective is to curb the root cause, the economic cause that leads to the expulsion of this country's population in a bloody way. I insist, we can't see the migration balance in one year, because demographic dynamics are long-term, long-term. We have to see the trend, the whole graph and the whole historical series since the end of the 19th century. Because we are today in the demographic reality that we have as a result of these emigration processes. This is also reflected in his report by the Demographic Observatory, which also makes a special fincapé — stating that he is particularly accused — on the consequences of these migratory vacancies between 1950 and 1970. I can put them later, if you want, real examples of how there were houses — my own — in which nine left, one returned, married and had two daughters. Between the nine people who left and the four people we're here, how many people have been lost? And it's a specific case. Any of the people who are here, I'm convinced they can have an identical life experience. How many people have lost this country? And these people had life plans, married in many cases, and had daughters and children who were no longer part of this country's population. Migration and increasing life expectancy are the large variables that will influence the present and future demographic reality of this country, not fertility. It cannot fall into that ideological vision, but absolutely myopic, that the goal of a law of demographic impulse is to reach quotas, a certain number of populations — that is a bottle mistake — but the goal – and this ends – must be to guarantee the greatest share of economic development and social well-being that enables us to live, work and develop life projects in this country for those we are born here or for anyone who wants and can come with us. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u31	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We now have a turn in favour or against amendments, or spokesmen, of the non-amendant parliamentary group to set positions. You have the floor, therefore, for the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Arias Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u32	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Counsellor, I want, on behalf of the People's Group, but I think in the name of most of the Greeks and the Greeks, to congratulate you on bringing an innovative law here today. It is innovative because it is the first to face the demographic challenge in Spain, as well as in Europe. A brave law that names and names the challenge we have ahead and the need to take urgent action. It is a cross-sectional law, with the involvement of all departments of the Union, all administrations and all socio-economic and cultural agents; a law that commits to the Greeks and to the Greeks, with clear obligations for the Government, but also with fixed budgets — a minimum of about 800 million a year to carry them out. It's a participatory law that emerges from the works of the Galego Observatory for Demographic Dynamization. Mrs. Ortega, don't come here without talking to your predecessor first, and tell him what we did there. There were commissions made ad hoc to discuss this issue. He worked there for weeks and weeks, with people from all parliamentary groups, from all universities, with social, economic and cultural agents. That's all that's been talked about. Please, if you don't speak to your predecessor, don't pass those bees. It's something you have to fix inside. Because this is a participatory law, a law in which, in addition, at the time it was exposed to the public, 80% of the allegations were accepted. 84% of all contributions made by the Economic and Social Council were included. It's a law that we think has to be a country law, because we'll all agree that demography policies are political in the medium and long term. That's why I'm already ahead of you from here that the People's Group will have a hand and generosity to work together in parliamentary procedure to make this a law, not a government law, but a law of the future, for the future of Galicia. [[Applause]] That's why, Counselor, we appreciate this law coming here today. Because we are very aware that at the moment the actions of governments must be focused primarily on the health of people, on that health, economic and social problem that brought us the pandemic of cowardice. But we have to look at the future. And that future cannot be understood without demographic policies. That's why it's a very good news that among the first laws that brought the Government of Unity to this Parliament in this legislation is the law of demographic impulse; a law that, in addition, in this parliamentary process, must collect those evidences that this pandemic has made us see not only in Galicia but throughout Spain and all over the world. And that's why this law has to collect these contributions so that, when there's a pandemic of this kind again, protocols are established for the protection of adults and children, and also for conciliation. By the way, we already know that this brings to PSOE without care, because eight months ago President Sánchez said he was going to help families when his children couldn't go to school because of the coward. Nothing if I knew about that. Neither did anything if I knew and unfortunately nothing knew the vast majority of the people still waiting to collect the minimum income vital to be able to get out of the way. And at these difficult times, when you say that they are so worried about demography, it turns out that state budgets get us 11% of the investments while they're running Catalonia with more than 17%; when they pull us out of the train taking advantage of the crisis of cowardice and they're not taking us back to long and half distances in many cases, a time when they still don't pay us the 50% that corresponds to the Dependency Act and with which we could look after all that we have on the waiting list. You speak of this amendment in that document which they present to present — namely redundancy — as a whole, that many of the measures which are in force in the law are already under way. Of course they're on! What's the matter with you? Don't you know that since 2009 the government of Feijóo has been working around and pioneering in all demographic dynamization measures? Of course I do! And what we want is that those measures that have already been seen to have yielded fruit are guaranteed for all the Greeks and the Greeks, no matter what government they are in front of. Are you against the freeness of children's schools from 0-3 years old, yes or no? Are you in favour of the municipalities in Galicia with conciliation resources for the very little ones, yes or no? We're in favor, of course we're in favor! I understand that you feel a little uncomfortable, because, you know, sometimes this historical memory is a little awkward. They're gonna let me make a little bit of historical memory today. In 2009, children's school squares: 12,700. 2020: more than 25,000 squares, double squares. The coverage ratio goes from 21% to 44%. There is freeness for the second child since April 2020 — the only community in Spain, by the way — and the clear commitment that it will also be for the first one if the Government places a grain of sand, only a grain that consistently denies us in everything that has to do with Galicia. Let's keep going. Bono conciliación: more than 21,000 families benefited from the past legislation. Good care: from 0 to 2009 to more than 900 families by 2020. Good extraordinary care during the worst time of the vault. Welcome card: from 0 in 2009 to more than 60,000 in the previous legislation — with extraordinary assistance for families with limited resources, numerous families living in rural areas or returned families. Children's homes: from 0 to more than 80 — with more than 400 squares and ensuring that all families, living where they live, will have an appeal for reconciliation. I don't know if that matters to you; of course to those of us who are small municipalities, very much. Of course, not you, because they say that's intrusion. That's ridiculous, Mrs. Ortega. Same in big houses: 0 to more than 50. Apart from the measure of zero taxes in rural areas and many other measures in which the Government of Galicia has consistently stood out — recognised by governments of all the ideologies of Spain —. You don't come here to do the ridicule by saying otherwise. What's the matter is that, look, demography is important to you, more like nothing. After two years of saying that the national strategy for the demographic challenge will be put in place, last Friday the communities and the press holder — not the People's Party — are: "The Sánchez government will seek the opinion of the peoples affected by the demographic challenge." Great conclusion. This is the summary of the national strategy for the demographic challenge of Spain. Of course, you were talking here about what there were budgets and what they were going to make and do, and do, and do... do you know how much the government of Spain is budgeted for demography? It has 11 million euros; and for Galicia it is 600,000. Mrs. Ortega, what are you going to invest in? In pipes? Because for something else I don't know if they're gonna give them. But I'm not surprised, because, after all that time, it turns out that Sánchez has been ten months without covering the High Commissioner's square for the demographic challenge. One day he found so many ministers who couldn't fit in the room, but to find the person who was going to encounter demographic problems and had to solve them, he didn't find anyone. Of course, BNG doesn't get rid of this either, because, in that government agreement they signed, not a single sentence, not a single word, dedicated to demography. And we're going to talk about this amendment to the whole BNG presenting today. The BNG, Counsellor, says this law seems to you to be a nativity. Well, that's a term as outdated as the phrase that in those early nineties -- Mrs. Rodil logically doesn't wake up -- in those early nineties, when Fraga spoke here that it was necessary to put demographic problems on the agenda, the Block said that what the PP wanted was to put women in birth as though they were rabbits. That is said in this Parliament. [[Murmurs.]] And, of course, you're still talking about this Christmas law because, in all the articles that this law has, 10% are family-help. Will we clearly see whether you are in favour of or against the help of reconciliation and co-responsibility? Tell him clearly. Because, frankly, all we knew so far was that they were absolutely against the rural, women and men in the countryside, because they voted against the children's houses. But it turns out that they are now also against Article 37, where it is said that the provisions that facilitate conciliation are recognized, because, you think, these are Christmas policies. But even more serious, in my judgment, is that you are against Article 46; that is, measures to protect children's health in the resources and conciliation services are being carried out. Mrs. Pontón is not here today. I'd like to ask her face to face if she's in favor or against this measure. What if I'm a little more in favor of you is that you're against Article 23. Article 23 states — as opposed to — that the population of population problems is sensitized and that the crop balance of Galicia is published annually in the DOG. And I say I understand it more, because, look, you know, that transparency is very, very much, never liked it. It won't happen that the Welsh and the Greek learn that this mantra that comes saying nationalists and socialists that in Galicia people little less than run off on stamps because it's not, at all, right. Because the data is very stubborn. Yes, yes, Mrs. Ortega, the data is very stubborn. You go to the official data. [[Mr. Arias Rodríguez shows a role from the stage.]] Official data say that, between 2009 and 2019, they came to live in Galicia 47,610 people more than they left, and that last year Galicia was the community with less emigration from Spain, Galicia, that Galicia that has a strategy going on returns with 235 million euros so that 21,000 Greeks return to their country — and 60% of them, under 40 years of age —. [[Applause]] Ultimately, counsellor, ladies and gentlemen, this is a necessary law and a good law, a law that represents all the values of Galicia we want for the future, a law that bets by a family Galicia, inclusive and attractive, where all those people who want to have a child find here the best place to raise him, who form here the family they want, the family model that they want to live in Galicia, to develop professionally in Galicia and to age in Galicia because this is the best place to do it. It is a law that bets by a young Galician, which promotes the formation and emancipation of youth with programs that seek their incorporation into quality jobs and access to housing; a law that bets by an innovative Galician with measures for digital coverage and training, business innovation and services to the population; a law that has measures to count — worth redundancy — with a sustainable Galicia, an environmentally sustainable Galicia, economically and socially, a Galicia without any difference between rural and urban; ultimately, a Galicia necessary for Galicia and the Greeks. And they'll allow me to let my last words be for you. They're still in time to rectify, they're still in time to think. They know that we have the right to continue to improve this law in the parliamentary process together and generously, and we can make a document with the broadest possible consensus. I wish I was wrong and for once socialists and nationalists didn't prefer their acronyms rather than Galicia. I wish this time I was wrong, I wish this time they didn't do as always. Thank you very much. Nothing else, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u33	Thank you, Mrs Arias. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica round of the amending groups. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u34	Thank you, President. This is the graph, though it can be seen in small detail. It's the graph of population evolution in Galicia from 2010 to today. Here's the graph, the sad graph. [[Mrs. Ortega Otero shows a chart from the stage.]] That is, we understand that the policies of the People's Party that are selling here the spokesperson for the People's Party do not know where they are. They are totally non-existent. A lot of words, a lot of headlines, but empty of content. And that doesn't eat citizenship. [[Applause]] Look, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party — continuing with the questions of the lady of the People's Party — are you in favour or against which she cuts herself into health? Are you in favor of or against that being cut in education? Because, in a matter of two weeks, observing Galician news, he found this: "A trial of Pontevedra's administrative dispute requires the Education Councillor to reopen a primary unit." They're doing schools and they say they're in favor of returning to Galicia! [[Applause]] But, look, I found another one. After the health cuts — and the most accused are in the countryside, which I come from Ourense province and you won't tell me what depopulation is — especially in the health centers, in the comarcas hospitals — and as a paradigm we have in Verín, we found this week this gentleman, who is Dr. Castrillo, a symbol of the defense of health, rejected by Junta de Galicia with a disciplinary record. Are you in favour or against, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? Are you in favor or against? Enough demagogy! That's enough! [[Applause]] This is a fundamental theme. If you want to contribute to the demographic challenge, stop cropping services. They bring work for citizenship, work for our youth. He says he didn't leave the youth. And you're going to tell me, that I'm this generation that I've had to go!, that I've got all the friendships outside — and surely many of you are here too — and even families, and even children and children. Did you tell me that I came from Ourense province? Please, seriously! We're talking about demography. And to fight for demographics and for the demographic challenge, there is no other thing than to cut off in health and education services, and above all to bet on work, to bet on rurals, which here the People's Party speaks a lot about rurals but does nothing about rurals. The central idea is about the usefulness of an action framework that is supposed to advance towards the demographic challenge. What good is it for me to have a son and have a child's check if I don't have a school or a health service or a pediatrician to take my son? What's the point? Coherence! [[Applause]] Coherence! This law cannot deceive citizenship and Galicia. Coherence! It is empty of content, it does not compromise the assistance resources. It's a window law, empty of contents. The demographic challenge for our land is all a challenge, but the lines of action must be clear and sincere about citizenship, sincere. Coherence, please! With the return of these measures, it won't be in the short and medium term. I know that this has no political profitability for you, that what you want is the immediate headline. But when they leave the cameras, they go out that door and cut off in the services — especially where it hurts most, in the countryside. We must support reconciliation and co-responsibility in family life, ensure that people with dependence or disabilities have dignified attention, stop cutting into dependence, disability, dynamize the creation of local opportunities, enhance the talent associated with the territory, the talent associated with the territory!; innovate, enhance and guarantee services and infrastructures. It is essential to ensure the provision of services to all the population and in equity conditions, living where they live. Please! I used to say my companion Pablo Arangéna said there was always a Welshman in every part of the world, and that this printed character and marked culture. We want these Galicians and Greeks to leave today, but only on vacation, to return soon to our land and to live on our land. We need to push the ecological transition, promote scientific and technological progress, reduce inequality and protect the welfare state. They're key lines. Population cannot be sustained in unpopulated areas when rural health centres are the first to stop covered by professionals. This happens especially in pediatrics. Yes, while Galicia covers 88%, places like Asturias are 98%. [[Applause]] Please be consistent!, and especially in the reform of the 2018 Health Act, which reduced areas, which significantly limited decision-making capacity and made it difficult for professionals to manage themselves in comarca hospitals. This is key to the demographic challenge. But you don't know, don't you see? The question is: right now services are eliminated when people are lost. But perhaps the People's Party's Government should rethink its policy and move on to the opposite management, to the opposite management.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u35	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u36	In order not to lose population, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, to fix the existing one and to bring those who left, it's very important not to cut down services. They must be kept to strengthen the population. They're consistent with what we're designing. They reformulate this bill so its effectiveness becomes a reality that Galicia has been waiting a long time for them to make no more generations of luggage. Blinden the population, lured to the one who left and stopped cutting services.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u37	Thank you, Mrs Ortega. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galego Nationalist Bloc Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u38	Thank you, President. Good day again. I even feel sorry for myself, I tell him honestly — not you, to see if I express myself correctly. I'm sorry to see what the debate is all about. We try to give a substantive debate and a political debate on which are the causes that have led Galicia to have a demographic reality as it has, where we have a lot of life expectancy, but we have been going a little less. We were losing weight, in addition, about the population of the Spanish state. This cannot be reduced, Mrs Arias, to those questions of "is it for or against this article?, is it for or against this article?...Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Because I think that, in addition to being useless, it's a rather sterile debate. And, beyond the presentation — when it opens up — I think it does not contribute at all to a goal that the advisor said they had — and you have already mentioned it — which is to convert demographic policies into a broad consensus in the country. When this law came to the House, I was asking myself a question: Is a law necessary? It's a legitimate question, isn't it? And I understood it's very complex but it can serve, it can serve to make that a country agreement, to put at the center of public policy in Galicia the demographic reality and intervene on it to ensure better living conditions. We, frankly, have told you since the BNG: this law doesn't meet that goal and it has a political problem, ideologically focused, and hence also the confrontation we've made since the BNG. Because, look, having children or children is an intimate, personal and individual decision, besides absolute and fully free, does not respond to the interest of any government. And this law is a family law, it's a crazy law of Christmas politics. And I think the best example of that was his intervention. Of the fifteen minutes we have, you've taken 80 percent of the time to talk about conciliation measures, boost measures and promote birth. Conciliation and co-responsibility are fundamental rights that must be guaranteed if we aspire to a democratic society, but it will not change anything. It won't change anything because demography doesn't aspire to an ideal or idyllic population. [[Applause]] And I encourage her not to review the policies of the People's Party Government, which I believe to be the best example of this failure. If not, look at the cases of Sweden, Germany or France. They've won odds of well-being, they've improved the living conditions of their population, but they're still in the same trend as the rest of Western societies in a more slow way — which is what happens to the Spanish State, in the medium term, about Galicia. What is the variable, the great difference in our country from other societies? It's emigration, but emigration is not from the migration balance of the past year, Mrs Arias, but from a historical trend. That's why I was referring, in addition, to what the Demographic Observatory itself pointed out, which is the consultative body that should serve as advisory to the Government itself in the design of this law, and that it emphasizes that today we are seeing the photograph that is the result of these huge migration waves of the late 19th century and, above all, between the 50s and 70s. I had the feeling, reading the law over and over again, that there was certain nostalgia, certain nostalgia for past times, that they are not always better. What this country needs is a law of the future that confronts its reality, that doesn't put it in good or bad. It's not even better or worse, it's ours. And what we have to adapt to it and aspire to is that this country can gradually sit down on the foundations that solve the structural problems that are precisely the cause, or that are to a large extent the cause, of the demographic reality that we have today. You were talking about the migration figures, the migration balance — indeed positive — in 2019. But within this positive migration balance there are 28,853 people who left this country; 19,778 of them went to other places in the territory of the Spanish State. It's a population that you don't consider emigrant in the definition that makes "return" in the law itself, because you think that only that population that leaves the borders of the Spanish State should return. Going to Madrid, going to Catalonia, going to Basque Country, isn't it emigration? Doesn't it influence the demographic development of our country? Indeed it does, and it must also be achieved that these people — if they want it and so they want it — may return to Galicia. [[Applause]] And then there are 9,075 people who actually went to other countries outside the Spanish state. Or we can stop that expulsion of population and make higher quotas — I insist — of social well-being, better living conditions, job opportunities and wages and decent jobs or we won't be able to go to the root of the problem, if you want to see it this way, which is exactly that: that we're getting older, but we're going to get less and less. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Yes, Counselor, will you make use of the shift? [[Madam Social Policy Adviser, García Martínez, speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Yes, whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u40	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, anyone who had followed from the beginning the management of this law of demographic impulse could observe how the Galician Union did its best and everything in its hand to achieve maximum consensus and support around this standard. First, because it's a standard based on a previous analysis, on a master lines that unanimously approved the Council and the Galego Demographic Dynamics Observatory, where all political groups, social agents, universities and also several demographic experts are represented. Secondly, because 80 per cent of the 336 claims received during the public exhibition period were considered, and also, of course, those made by the Socialist Party and other parties previously in this House. These allegations suggested the creation of four new articles and one layout, as well as the modification of 29 articles and four layouts. Third, because the text returned to the Galego Demographic Dynamics Observatory to get its approval, and got it. Fourthly, because after their passage through the Economic and Social Council, 83 per cent of their observations and recommendations were incorporated. Between its pre-project phase and the text that we have in our hands today has changed 44% of the articulate of the law of demographic impulse. It is logical that this is not 100 percent the law that would like the groups of this House. It's not 100 percent of the law that the German Government has drawn up, either. But it is a hundred percent dialogue, a hundred percent plural and a hundred percent open to consensus. If you decided to pursue a negotiation process so long and in so many different forums, it was because from the beginning there was always such a clear will that this is not a law of government, but that this is a law of country with which all the Greeks and the Greeks can feel well identified. All the countries that managed to reverse the negative population curve made them articulate a long-term, thought-out demographic strategy. With this law, what we intend to do is to follow his example and chart the ways in which Galicia's demographic policies will be going through over the next decades. That is why — I insist — the Council of Galicia is prepared to reach a broad parliamentary consensus and to bring forward the Demographic impulse Act unanimously in this Parliament of Galicia. The amendments to the whole of our debate today do not feed our hopes very much, but they have my commitment that until the end I will always try to convince them that this law is necessary for Galicia. If we make so much effort to achieve your favourable vote, it is not, as you know, for reasons of parliamentary arithmetic. It's for something far more important: responsibility. It will be very difficult to explain to our children and our grandchildren how the Greek Members of the Eleventh Law had the opportunity to pass a law to address the main conditioner for our future and which, for the sake of party interests and in the short term, we have not done so. Just as we managed to reach broad agreements during the drafting of the text with people who thought differently from us, we will also continue with the hand held during parliamentary processing. Believe me, the political calculations that invite us to be thrown into "no" won't happen to history. In the Demographic impulse Act there's an opportunity to do it, and we're still in time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u41	Thank you, Counselor. [[Mrs. Rodil Fernández asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs. Rodil, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u42	I've been predicting this before, but I've consulted. I'm sorry, I'm sorry... [[Murmurs.]] I'll give you an explanation. I consulted with the lawyer, I just consulted with the lawyer, and I was told that, if the counsellor's intervention contradicted some of the postulates... but I didn't interpret any contradictions. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I did not interpret it; rather I interpreted hand held to try that this law might go out unanimously. But that's not to contradict any postulates. No, I think it was, and I consulted him with the lawyer. [[Mrs. Rodil Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] We're not going to contradict legal services here now. Thank you. Let's vote. Let's vote, see if it comes to the end unanimously. Let's try. [[Murmurs.]] Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u43	First of all, we begin with a joint vote on the amendments to the full refund to the draft law regulating external action and cooperation for the development of Galicia. We can vote together. We voted in favour of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and those of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia. Joint vote on the amendments to the whole of the GG. PP. of the Galego Nationalist Block and the Galician Socialists, to the draft law regulating external action and cooperation for the development of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected as a whole.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u44	We now vote together, too, the amendments tabled to the draft law on demographic impulse in Galicia. Joint vote on the amendments to the whole of the GG. PP. of the Galego Nationalist Block and the Galician Socialists, to the draft law of demographic impulse of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Institutional declaration
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u45	The vote is over, but I will now read out an institutional statement which, according to the groups, brings me here, and which is on the occasion of the Children's Day, and which says: "The crisis caused by the pandemic of the Covid-19 is having serious consequences for children. We go through exceptional circumstances that lead to an increase in child poverty and inequalities, an increase in the educational gap and a threat to the physical and mental health of children, children, adolescents and their families. These consequences impact more strongly on those who are in greater vulnerability conditions. That's why, on Universal Children's Day, from the Galician Parliament, we want to add our unanimous voice and remember our commitment to the fulfilment of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The current situation is testing our ability to respond as a society, not only in the face of the emergency from the coward-19 but in the face of the challenges of the future, so renewing commitment to the rights of children is inescapable. It's time to reimagine a better world for childhood, when, in addition, we started a new legislation in Galicia. For that, it will be essential that since the public authorities — and especially from our home, Parliament — we renew our commitment to children, children and adolescents, and also to the 2030 Agenda as a collective roadmap to respond to the current emergency and to rebuild better, reimagining a more equitable, sustainable and just world for all. To make that reality, we must ensure that the rights of children and children are at the centre of crisis care and recovery. We must make firm decisions to ensure that no child or child is left behind, and that each one of them can develop its maximum potential. Already prior to the arrival of the coronavirus, poverty and exclusion affected 26% of the child population in Galicia; that is, many families are facing the situation caused by the coward 19 under conditions of extreme vulnerability. That's why we must work together to prevent the pandemic crisis from becoming a lasting crisis for children. That is why we commit ourselves to promoting the following actions that favour the fulfilment of their rights: —Promoting greater and more efficient investment in children, ensuring that the resources needed to meet the challenges mentioned above are allocated. —Promoting the development of the Galician Law on Children and Adolescents as a framework instrument for articulating future commitments with children, children and adolescents in our community. —Promoting the actions necessary to analyse the impact of covid-19 on children and adolescents in Galicia, especially on the most vulnerable, and addressing their solutions to: 1. Strengthen the social protection system to ensure a suitable standard of living for each child or child — sustainable development goal number 1 —. 2. Addressing the challenges of the educational divide, reducing school failure, early abandonment and digital divide — sustainable development goal number 4 — 3. Ensuring special protection measures for asylum-seekers and refugees, as well as unaccompanied migrants — sustainable development goal number 10 — 4. Ensuring the rights of children deprived of a family environment — sustainable development goal number 16 — 5. Prevent, detect and adequately address cases of violence against children — objective of sustainable development number 16 — 6. Protect and promote the health of children, children and adolescents, with special attention to mental health and the rights of children with disabilities — sustainable development objectives numbers 2, 3 and 10—. 7. Strengthen international cooperation for development by fulfilling the commitment, recognized in the Convention on the Rights of the Child, to provide protection for the rights of children and adolescents worldwide — the objective of sustainable development number 17 —. 8. Listening to the concerns and needs of children, children and adolescents, and contemplating them in a cross-cutting way in political action by promoting their participation in designing, along with them and them, the strategies for the recovery of this crisis. 9. Promote the necessary actions to meet the seventeen sustainable development goals and the Paris Agreement, and convert the current crisis into an opportunity to invest in the present and future of childhood, rebuilding better and with a sustainable approach, without losing sight of the threat of the climate crisis and its impact on children. Finally, recognizing the existing problems and the great challenges we face, we reaffirm our commitment to propose actions and achieve results for children in Galicia, but also at the national and global level, and we declare our direct commitment to children to reimagin with them and them a world in which all their rights can be realized." [[Approved by consent.]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]] We continue on the agenda, and in this case we move on to appearances. Mr. Counsellor for Health, on his own request, to report on the evolution of the health emergency of the covid-19 in relation to the general forecasts and lines of action of his department
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u46	To formulate this appearance, you have the word of the health adviser, Mr. Julio García Comesaña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u47	Good morning, gentlemen. I would like to compare myself in this House to the two duties I have with this House. First of all, to provide regular information on the situation of the health emergency of the covid-19, as it has undertaken to do this Government. Secondly, report on my lines of work, which the Department of Health intends to carry out during this legislation. The situation of the pandemic has a decisive influence on the plans and actions that this board will develop over the next few months, and that is why we consider it appropriate to report together on both issues and to submit to the political groups the set of action lines, which are now being deployed in relation to the pandemic and those that continue, strengthen or initiate in relation to other health promotion programs, assistance or health research. With regard to the evolution of the pandemic, the data we're familiar with endorses the strategy that Galicia took and which explained the president of the Union in the past full. Always supported by the Council of the Clinical Committee have taken balanced and surgical measures to control the progress of the pandemic by maintaining an acceptable level of activity. That's why today 69 of the 313 Greek municipalities have a level of restrictions that the Committee calls "The Carballin Model," and which substantially coincides with the measures that have been put into effect in this golden town on October 21st and which have allowed the incidence of the virus to be reduced to a very significant extent. So on October 20th, the city council of Carballin had an accumulated incidence rate of 14 days of 1,240 cases per 100,000 inhabitants. On November 20, when we made the decision to lift these restrictions, the cumulative incidence had fallen to 85.5. In addition, these data showed stability in time, and the situation throughout the region was similar. We are aware that this has required a month of effort for the citizenship of the municipality, for the hospitality and leisure arrangements and, by extension, for the whole economy. But we believe that the result paid the penalty in terms of preventable infections, reduced hospital pressure in the Ourense area and, consequently, saved lives. In a month, we achieved a reduction of 93% of the accumulated rate to fourteen days and we took this council from a very high level to the middle level — exactly in half of what mark the indicators of the coordinated response document agreed by the National Health System Interterritorial Council. A month later, the Carballino left. We know that achieving this goal in all the municipalities that are under restrictions today is complex, but we cannot and must not give up on it. Its main motivation is to ensure our healthcare capacity and to ensure that, in the same way as in the previous wave, all patients in Galicia are treated with all available means and with the greatest effort to preserve their life and health. Let me give you some more detailed information on today's general situation in Galicia: the number of positives detected in the last 14 days has decreased by 19.9 % — 20 % practically —; in the same way, conventional hospitalization has decreased by 8%; and in the case of patients in ICUs — in this case last week — that reduction was almost 5%. By continuing with some general data, today the number of positives we have in Galicia is 8,617, with a reduction on yesterday's 52 cases. We have 96 patients in ICU, which means 1.1% of these 8,617; 456 patients in conventional hospitalization, which means 5.3%; and 8,065 patients in their homes, which means 93.6%. Of course — and we must admit it — we have 1,161 dead in this period, exactly 15 on yesterday. And go ahead with our memory and homage to them and their families. Speaking in relative terms, this occupation of ICU beds that we have right now — that is 96 patients — is 46.07% less than we had in our peak in spring. At that time we reached 178 patients in ICU and, as I said, today we are in 96 — that's 46.07% less —. And in the same way, in conventional hospitalization we are at 51.8% less than that peak — in the month of April in this case — which was 946 at that maximum value. Today, as I say, we're in 456. The percentage of PCR positivity continues to be higher than we would like to; in particular, on yesterday we had a value of 7.32%. And speaking globally, compared to the rest of the state, the incidence accumulated in Galicia right now is 14 days in 276.90, compared to an average value across the state of 374.52; that is, we are 100 points below the average of the Spanish state. This is achieved by this type of measures we previously commented on, which cut the chain of contagion in those municipalities where the incidence is high, but also by early detection measures in those places where this incidence is low and we want to prevent it from rising. Our system of case detection and handling and their close contacts is in constant review. As you know, from May to May the Galician Union launched a coordinated process of tracking and detecting cases involving epidemiological surveillance services, preventive medical services, primary care professionals, the specific contact tracking centre, and the military professionals that the Ministry of Defence has made available to us, and which, of course, we thank. The evolution of the gromos itself, the increase of the professions of the central and the incorporation of new collectives into the process required a series of adjustments in the procedures to try to try a homogeneous treatment of diagnostic tests such as positive cases and their close contacts. In this context, last September 29 reviewed the protocol for care and handling of cases in primary care by clearly delimiting the functions and releasing these professionals from bureaucratic processing of tests, contacts and their follow-up. This sort of order, requested by our professionals, sparked a false controversy over a supposed ban on the request for evidence that was never so, as demonstrated by the passage of time. The Autonomous Community of Galicia made over the last week an average of 7,000 CRPs a day, which comes to some 49,000 this past week — which has nothing to do with my appearance today in this House — of course. This figure corresponds, as has always been the case, to the absolute freedom of primary professionals to request how much evidence they consider appropriate, to the ability of the follow-up plant to process contact requests, to the maximum provision of health care personnel that attends the car shelters installed in all areas of health and to the immense work of the microbiology and laboratory services of our hospitals to process them. In addition to PCRs performed to symptomatic people or to close contacts of positive cases, Junta continues to make population seizures both in specific territories — such as the cases of Ribadavia, Ribeira or this same weekend in the Vigo area — as well as in groups of special risk. We continue with the support of the entire staff of socio-sanitary residences, which enables us to detect the positives early and thus prevents, as far as possible, the emergence of new groms in these sensitive spaces. The first one of these guys located 20 positives and the second one located 26. And it's already been done a third week last week. On the other hand, we continue to increase our diagnostic capacity by adding to all these PCR new antigen tests, which are added to those of antibodies, of which we have been available for a longer time. After acquiring 50,000 of these new tests in September, Galicia began using them in October in emergency services and in five primary centers as a pilot test for three weeks. Subsequently, and as announced by the president fifteen days ago, 300,000 more antigen tests were acquired to extend their use to all primary centers, which have now been distributed. And we'll continue to incorporate new tests. But if all this isn't enough, we have steps to continue to anticipate ourselves. The Clinical Committee evaluated the contingency plan developed by Sergas for acute respiratory pathologies to face a winter that could unite influenza and curfew. This document, with organisational measures, will be available to all of you, since you have requested it as documentation of the study commission. We also have a strategic stock, which currently has coats for more than five thousand days, masks for more than a thousand days, and glasses or protective screens for more than a thousand days. For example, the daily consumption of mascarillas in the public health system in Greece — only in terms of health — exceeds 59,000 units per day; this makes, for example, consumption of more than 1,40,000 mascarillas on 11 November. And if we're talking about non-sterile protective suits, that daily consumption is 14.323 a day, which makes you consume more than 385,000 such suits in one week. In another order, we have already presented to the sectoral table a plan of continence in the field of staff which is scheduled to take place from the next 1st of December 750 health emergency appointments in the nursing category. It'll last for six months, and 150 of these contracts will last for one year. In other categories, it may be the order of 500 or 400 such contracts — the speech of assistants, captors, PSXs, microbiologists or laboratory technicians —. These professionals are made up of more than 1,700 reinforced personnel since the outbreak of the pandemic. Another issue in which it is essential to act in the face of the repercussions of the health crisis is primary care. I've already talked about the protocol adopted to unbureaucratize the work of these professionals, but we will take more action in the short term. We're aware of the discomfort that the difficulties in telephone access are causing in many people, and we've been working hard to put solutions. For example, we strengthen the administrative areas of many health centres, and there are another series of measures that will be launched in the short term. In December, Sergas will launch a new CRM system, which manages the user relationship, to manage the relationship with patients, both doctors and administrative staff. For administrative staff, this system will allow you to collect the list of all lost phone calls to return them as soon as possible. The user can be assured that his unattended call will be recorded and returned, and that he will not have to call for a second time but will be contacted proactively by his health center. It's already in evidence, both in primary and hospital, a video-call system, or video-consultation system, which will improve the quality of non-presental health care. In December this system will be integrated into a new Sergas mobile application that will remove the need to receive the link in order to connect to the video, which will allow you to directly establish that videoconsult through this application. The new Sergas mobile app will also have new features, such as the management of the appointment request in a much more friendly and fast way, the automatic turnout issue at the time the patient reaches the health center and there has a requested quote, and the availability, for example, of the virtual health card within the app itself, which can be used with the same benefits as the physical card in both health centers and pharmacy. So we continue to believe in the advantages of a mixed model that combines telematics care and presence care, and that's why we're going to improve it. But we're aware that presence must increase and that's why we're formulating to the agencies the goal of locating it, at the end of this year, at 40%. And telematic attention has to work properly, from there the technological media measures I just detailed. But reforms in primary care cannot remain in the short term. I have followed very closely the appearances of Doctors Estrella López-Pardo and Susana Aldecoa in the committee of study created in this Parliament on reactivation. In which they asked precisely to reactivate the development of the primary care plan and the document by primary vertebrate care, interrupted by the pandemic. I agree with them that we can no longer postpone the transformation that primary care should live, a transformation that would lead to it being that gateway from which we are now talking to a central care level with its own resolution capacity. To achieve this objective, a new model of governance is needed in health centres, which coincided with both visitors and which is reflected in Sergas' document principals. We have a great experience in the educational system, where the autonomy of the centres has given rise to leadership teams and solid educational projects. We also want to introduce that management autonomy to health centers. Chiefs and service coordinators will be selected through competitions that value a local health plan project with a community medicine approach. This requires, in time, a rearrangement of functions between the primary staff that includes various aspects in which we are working: the increase in the solvency capacity of the nursing staff — for which we have already begun the processing of the decree that will allow them to renew, adjust or terminate the prescriptions of their optional companions — the promotion of the role of primary physiotherapy in functions such as dependency assessments or orthothesic material reports, the impulse of health training of general service staff — which will allow them to be enabled for tasks that can be released by the health care staff. And we also find it interesting to think in that committee of study about progress in better integration of CAP personnel into the rest of the primary. Of course, we're talking not only about reorganization but also about resource increases. The OPE we convened this year 2020 includes more than 140 primary care squares. In the formative offer we cover 100 percent of the accredited primary medicine squares. And also the 2021 budgets include the creation of 161 new squares for this level of assistance. In addition to human resources, we also plan to make a bet on the provision of the best technological resources, particularly in the development of the chronicity strategy. The Telea system, which was so useful during the pandemic, will be strengthened to connect to it all monitoring devices of patients, such as cardioimplantable devices — pacemakers, INR meters, insulin pumps or glucose meters. The generated information will be downloaded directly into the patient's electronic clinical history and, of course, will be available to all health personnel involved in the management of that patient. The electronic clinical history system itself will also evolve towards a process-oriented model called HCEPRO, which is being installed at primary care medical and nursing stations and for which specific modules will be designed for other categories such as pharmacy, physiotherapy or social work. With regard to specific investments in physical infrastructure, such as new health centres and improvement reforms or actions, let me take a closer look at those already planned for next week's budget showing. In any case, I tell you that, beyond the projects already under way, Sergas will develop a primary health-care infrastructure plan in which it will set new priorities according to existing needs. Let me also welcome the detailed explanation of the development of the Mental Health Plan, because, as the Health Committee of this Parliament has requested, it will be the subject of a specific appearance in this committee at the next few dates. In any case, I want to point out that mental health treatment will be a priority for this legislation, through this plan and also through the suicide prevention plan. The latter, which is already in progress, will be strengthened closely by the creation of records in the health areas through which professionals can better monitor and control patients who have experienced some attempt. Also in this legislation, we will put in place the plan for dementia. It will allow further progress to improve attention to neurodegenerative diseases initiated in the previous legislation with the Greek Ictus Care Plan and the integrated care processes of multiple sclerosis and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Precisely these integrated care processes, and in general mental health, are examples of a collaboration between primary care and hospital care that we want to enhance in the coming years. A new regulatory decree for the category of medical admission and clinical documentation is about to be adopted — in full trade union negotiations — in which a special reference will be made to its work as a link between health centres to facilitate communication and coordination between levels. We will also improve the post-hospital care that takes place from primary care, updating the Connecta 72 system, which enhances follow-up from primary patients' disease in their first days after discharge; and also involves primary pharmaceutical personnel in reconciling the medication of patients who receive this discharge. And, of course, just as it had been compromised in the primary care plan, we'll continue to expand the catalog of diagnostic tests accessible from primary care, increasing its resolution capacity and avoiding the patient's displacements and expectations. Another plan that will ensure this care continuity will be the future Greek Plan of Rare Diseases. We accept the unanimous demand of this Parliament to create multidisciplinary functional units for these patients and we will frame it in a roadmap that will continue the progress that in the previous legislation have brought about the creation of the register and the commission of rare diseases. The same will be true of the future Greek Oncohematology Plan, a process also initiated in the previous legislation and to which this Parliament has recently called for the development of a CAR-T therapy centre from the public health system as well. We have assumed this commitment and there will be an advanced cellular therapy strategy within the public health system in Galicia. But we also want this Italian Plan of Oncohematology to enhance early diagnosis and axillize the itinerary of clinical visits, implementing common care circuits and homogenizing more innovative and non-pharmacological therapies. Another of the compromised plans is the Hado plan. Experience shows that where home hospitalization is implanted becomes a success. It's one of the services most valued by citizenship. That's why we assume all the commitments to endowment of the plan squares and maintain the goal of extending this service to 100 percent of the citizenship of Galicia in this legislation. In fact, in the coming weeks, we'll end the processing of a decree that will create the professional category of "home hospitalization" because we're convinced of the projection that this service will have in the coming years. The Telea system discussed above will also increase home care from the hospital, as we will open the possibility of using it for the pharmacological follow-up of oncotoxic processes, monitoring of inflammatory bowel disease patients or cardiac rehabilitation patients, by setting an example. But beyond that home hospitalization, which will be used whenever possible, we must also improve patient care in our hospital centers in various ways. On the one hand, in accessibility. During the covid-19 crisis, the deadlines for those priority 1 patients and all those pathologies whose pathologies were covered by maximum time regulation were guaranteed. And we have two commitments for this legislation: to extend these maximum times to more pathologies and to create more rapid pathways and to put in place a plan to recover interventions, consultations and delayed tests, to return Galicia to where it was before the pandemic, with the best waiting lists of the historical series and below half the national average. We also want to work in security by reducing the risk of infections. Last year, the Committee on Control of Infections Related to Health Care was set up and we have several prevention programmes in collaboration with the Ministry and our own others, such as the Zero Denutrition Programme, for critical patients, or the InNO-CBR application, which helps prevent our social infections. We also want to work in quality by fighting pain. Sergas has made great progress a decade ago with the start of the first strategy of integral pain care. But today it is necessary to review the procedure of evaluating acute pain in the hospital and to develop a specific procedure for the approach of child pain. We are also going to work on humanization — or continue to work —, moving forward in the strategy already formulated before the pandemic and extending to all of the hospital centers measures such as the opening of pediatric ICUs and newborns twenty-four hours — to the progenitors, or the ICUs of adults as soon as possible. And, of course, with improvements in the humanization of infrastructures. All new construction or hospital expansion works of Sergas will take into account needs such as specific and adapted waiting areas in ICUs, acoustic isolations, nursing rooms, signage suitable for people with different types of disability or care adapted to ostomized people. I will not now list all the planned works in hospitals, which will be commented in more detail on the above-mentioned attendance of budgets, but I would like to point out that these works have common priorities, in line with those mentioned above: improving emergency and critical services, expanding hospital units for greater comfort of the people entering and their families, and empowering the day-to-day hospitals for this improvement of patient autonomy and also of their close relatives. I would like to point out that in the budgets for 2021, we are looking at the provision for important projects of improvement in almost all the comarcas hospitals. We have also projected for this legislation these performances, a bet, therefore, for the comarcial hospitals that are not left in the works. Also in the last public job offer, we will have a specific score for the provision of services in difficult-covered comarcal hospitals; an action that will, already advanced, be accompanied by a package of measures to encourage clinical practice in these hospitals and ensure their future viability — moving forward in the model that we shield with the Health District Creation Act. In general, staff coverage is a matter that concerns us and deals with us. We continue to demand, with little reception from the Government of Spain, the elimination of the limitation of the replacement rates, which prevents us from covering all the vacant squares we want. We insist on demanding the measures agreed by the International Health Council in April 2018 to speed up the creation of training squares in deficit specialities. As I have done before, Galicia has covered 100 percent of the markets offered in both family medicine and pediatrics, but it's not enough. So, beyond statements to the Ministry, we will do what is in our hand to ensure that training capacity of new professionals. In this legislation we will adopt a decree for the management of Galician specialized health training system and we will also take measures to encourage those professionals who collaborate as tutors in training rotations and in student practices. In fact, we will establish teacher accreditation as a requirement in transfer contests to accredited centres. We therefore work to have a training structure prepared to assume that higher level of accreditation of teaching units that we claim. And we are also interested in the stable coverage of these squares, so we insist on the OPE, so we insist on creating squares and that is why we bet on models of continuity contracts — with 122 professionals already hired and with the extension of this model in the contingency plan I mentioned earlier —. However, we are aware that there is there, that there is more personal without fixed place than it would be recommended, and, consequently, we will also advance in this legislation in the adoption of a new human resources reorganization plan for Sergas; a plan that would, of course, be easier to make if the Government freed us from that limitation of the rest rate, which it commented on earlier, and we could do that management on the whole of our vacant squares. After reviewing the situation and prospects for the pandemic, primary care, hospital care and human resources policy, I want to stop on two proposals for the future that will be priority in this legislation and determining for the future of Galician health: Community health and innovation. These are two aspects in which the pandemic shows that we have to invest in the future: a greater focus on health promotion and disease prevention, with greater momentum to research for innovative treatments, and on innovation itself. In the above-mentioned approach to primary care, this role of community medicine and the health centre is highlighted as an agent for improving local health. We also have examples in Galicia of programs to reduce sedentaryism and combat obesity, which worked locally with a health leader. We want to move on that path by involving all social agents in health improvement or healthy food programs. Technology can also help us with tools that enable citizens to record information about their progress in this kind of program in a personal folder that your doctor and nurse can access from clinical history. The same is true of socio-sanitary programs. We are working with the Social Policy Council in the new model of residences that must ensure constant medical and health care for residents, for which telemedicine can and should be very useful. This community-based vocation of health is also aimed at ensuring active aging. Galicia has achieved European recognition as a reference region in innovation in this area thanks to innovative public procurement programmes, such as Code 100, which are facilitating independent life and the social welfare follow-up of our biggest. And, with regard to minors, we will advance the development of the Xanela Aberta program, a portal where we want pediatricians and families to interact in the follow-up and promotion of healthy habits from pregnancy to adolescence. We'll also advance in prevention. We will continue with the screening and early detection programs of various types of cancer already known — those of breast and colorectal — and we are now extending it to Cervix. And we'll act on the problems of addiction in youth. In this legislation we will bring to this Parliament a new law on the prevention of children's addictions. This rule will renew the Alcohol Prevention Act in minors — in 2010 — and incorporate prevention measures for other addictions between young people; in particular, smoking, but also all those non-substantial addictions, such as those related to technology. As far as research is concerned, we want to work on the development of the research career and the regulatory framework for its recruitment. We will continue to advance in the integrated clinical research system that was created last year, which will allow better collaboration between centers and share research data. We will guide these research through projects such as living-labs, the Innovation Project or the Microbiology 4.0 project, and others that will allow us to investigate, and also transfer the results of this research to society and patients, following the mechanisms created in the past legislation through a pioneering decree on the valorization and transfer of research results. Finally, we want to continue to disseminate all the innovative experiences carried out by the different health departments. The Health Innovation Awards have been created, of which we will soon convene the second edition, we have a functioning health innovation platform, and next year we will launch the Xare Knowledge Management Platform. With it we will achieve greater dissemination of training and share the knowledge in health that will cherish the excellent professionals of our public system. I don't want to forget the role of one of our gems in research, the Galaga Foundation of Xenomic Medicine, an institution that we want to enhance electronically integrating its systems with those of Sergas, to facilitate the request for evidence and achieve its accreditation under the ISO Standard of quality clinical laboratories. The role of the health research institutes of the Coruña, Santiago and Vigo must also be highlighted in this issue. At this point, and at the end of the review by the general lines, I wanted to make a brief mention of the concrete actions provided by Health to fulfill the great commitments of the Board in this legislation. Health will cooperate with the ecological commitment. We have planned important actions in energy efficiency in our centres. And we'll participate, as it does not!, in the strategy of the circular economy of the Union in relation to health waste. Health will also collaborate with the demographic commitment. We've just discussed the beginning of the process of a very important law for Galicia, and from our department we're determined to contribute to this challenge by boosting fertility treatments in the public system. Health will also be in the attention of diversity. In past legislation a reference unit was created for transsexual minors, but we have to complete it with cross-sectional actions on the system. That's why we want to put in place the protocol on gender identity that guarantees equal and non-discriminatory treatment of people who support public health and ensure that our staff have the necessary training and awareness-raising to assist them. Last commitment: equality. Our human resources department is working with trade union organizations in the development of the first equality plan for Sergas staff. We also want to continue to make progress in offering the best treatments available to the Greeks and the Greeks, and with the best trained professionals, through clinical trials developed by health professionals and with the support of the three institutes that I had previously commented on, but also through the latest technologies: the ECMO, robotic surgery or the latest advances in oncology. We want to continue progressing also in multidisciplinary and integrated treatment, from primary care to tumor committees, with all the specialties of opinion and, of course, with the patients themselves making the clinical decisions — following a model as recognized in our health system as that of the breast units installed and operating in all public hospitals—. And today, on the eve of the Day Against Gender Violence, I also want to reaffirm Sergas' commitment to this fight. Next week we will present, together with the Employment and Equality Council, a new procedure that we will implement in the health system to contribute to the early detection of gender-based violence situations and help women get out of them. Before I finish, I want to make a special mention of the situation that is taking place these days at the Summer Hospital in connection with one of your professionals. First of all, it must be noted that the situation in the neighborhood of the Hospital de Verín is normalized and everything works properly. The Galician Health Service continues to count on all the professionals who perform their work there and recognize, as it could not be otherwise, their work. On the other hand, about Dr. Castrillo — as I have known since my stage in the health care area of Ourense — there is an open administrative process resulting from a complaint by another specialist — in this case a pediatrician — who considered the treatment this professional gave him in front of a family. Sergas has, for this purpose, independent inspection mechanisms, and contrasted in more than twenty-five years of history, which strictly, method and guarantees resolve these situations. In this sense, this process began in December last year, the corresponding documentation was collected and interviews were conducted with all parties. In this context, the Inspectorate now transfers its report on 5 November and sends it strictly to the usual administrative process. Dr. Castrillo may at his own time make all the allegations he considers appropriate. The process provides all guarantees to the parties. It is administrative and does not affect or will affect the service given to the population. I end by thanking all the people who every day, especially at such a difficult time as this, work to make a better public health from our public system. If I can talk about these advances today, it's because we grow up on a solid basis, in whose construction many professionals have left the best of themselves. In particular, I want to have a reminder for the work of all the people who accompanied me in the honor of being in front of this board. I know it wasn't easy for anyone, but I also know that no one regrets accepting the challenge that I had the opportunity to accept a few months ago. And I take advantage of it to wish counsellor Vázquez Almuinho the best of luck at the stage that will begin soon. [[Applause]] For now, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u48	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Round of parliamentary groups. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u49	Thank you, President. Mr. Counsellor, before you begin, and since you have appealed to the one in Verín, we can put the term to it: a purge, a reprisal, an account adjustment or a sale. It doesn't matter. Stop it because it's unbearable. [[Applause]] Look, Counselor, I had to review what was the intention of the appearance. Gandhi said — I believe — that one can work or assume, but that there is less competition in the first group. You have begun with a great deal of willingness to work on your dedication to the Council. It's beginning to pass too fast to the dark side of those who want to pretend. And I'm telling him he's got a lot of competition in this government, and also pretty good. He stays in the working group, because he came here today to boast. We're in front of the... I don't know if I'm right or not, but something had to say. [[They pronounce words that are not perceived and Mr. Torrado Quintela pauses.]] Don't you? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you, I thought so. We are in front of the largest and most important vaccination campaign in our history, and you have come here to talk about ostomized patients — which is very good but we have approved this initiative here, year and half, Counsellor! – and you have come to talk about innovation awards. We are in front of the most important vaccination campaign of our lives and you came here to talk... if the People's Party doesn't shout and let me speak... [[Murmurs.]] You came here to talk about innovation awards, ostomized patients and some things that are the fourth or fifth time we hear here. But what are we talking about! We lived a very serious pandemic of what you mentioned at the beginning and so, come on, quickly I want to pretend other things! Mr. Counselor, but we're in this! The first wave took the governments to the counterpeak, with mistakes, with a lack of foresight, with a difficult situation for the whole world. You decided to use it at that time to campaign. The CECOP — who has been pretending for four months that they will call her again — has stopped calling when it happened on July 12. They did a serological study of what they were ashamed to have done and didn't publish it until Parliament demanded it — which, by the way, says we went to the community with the worst ratio of dead people from all over Europe, but you didn't give any explanation of that. In the second wave, don't we learn anything? Because it's what we are. That's what we're in, Counselor. The counsellor, the director general of Sergas, the director general of public health, has been fired and comes here to talk about the innovation awards that will be given next year. But we're on the second wave of the pandemic, Counsellor! What we have to talk about is this situation that we have, that we have a normative galimatia. You choose a model, you defend here today what you call "The Carball Model." He knows that since our group we're going to share the clinical decisions that this Government makes, even though we may sometimes not understand them. We're going to disagree that you don't communicate them well, you don't speak them, you don't explain them, you don't explain the criteria and you make decisions that you don't know yet. They have already corrected Sanxenxo's — well corrected — but we still don't know — because they allow me that example again — why Cervo and Burela do not — for example, by setting an example, that there are tens of them — why? We still don't know the criteria, and that's why we can't debate things. And you think not to tell things is a great policy, because that's how you can't argue about them. And it's indecent, Counselor! Now they want to do it with a bill -- don't tell things -- By the way, a bill that is a state of covert, systematic and authoritarian alarm, quite problematic. And we'll see if it's constitutional. That's right, you love it, because everything that's authoritarian likes it a lot. And this is where we're, in cicadare information, confused at will. At last they're starting to publish the map with which they make decisions! They still don't say how positive there's a day. They talk about active cases but it's not the same, and you know it. It's confusing, because they report active and non-positive cases. We have assistance problems. Today, we know that in 101 days on average, surgical expectations -- understandable to a large extent -- have increased, but they reduce the diagnoses of some diseases, such as cancer. Why are they deminuating? Because we have a medical problem, and we're not responding. We have a problem with the flu vaccine, and you say nothing happens. But there are people who keep their appointments delayed. Now you're talking about the fact that we have an objective, which is 40% of the present care by the end of this year. It's okay. What do you mean? That we're under. So when the PP says we're in half, 50%, who's lying here? Because you quote that we want to reach 40% by the end of the year. And when the PP comes to the commission and says we're 50%, what do we do? This is what we're talking about, and you're making fun of it. It's just an indecency, Counselor. We're talking about resources. You come here bragging about the budgets. Let's talk a moment about the budgets, although we can talk next week. Budgets increase by 14% on average — especially from EU and Spain funds — by 14% on average. Health increases by 7%, increases by half percent than budgets increase. It must be that in health care now there's not much to do. Other things need to be prioritized. In sports, 29%, Counselor, 29% in sports and 7% in health care. Yes, we lowered taxes on betting houses and gambling companies. Maybe we should get out of there to increase in health. [[Applause]] But we're not talking about it. Isn't this what we need to talk about, Counselor? It's just that we're not going into that debate anymore, that we have different positions, that we're already in a previous debate, which is spectacularly absurd. Isn't that what we're talking about, the resources we're putting on this second wave or the trackers, Counselor? It's all right! How many professionals have we hired at the Bergondo tracking station? How many? who hired you, under what conditions? Because you say you can't, and Mr. Feijóo says something different every day. And you look pretty good and they're doing a great game, but it's not decent. You're not the owner of the information! You can, of course, count parts of the issue that you consider important, set your priorities, your political criteria. But there is a part of the questions, of the information, of the reality, of which they have to answer. And they can't come here and say nothing of the things they want. They can't decide what they tell and what they don't. They can decide what they count, but they can't decide what they don't count. That's a natural state, a democratic state, a natural parliamentary system. It's not about anything else. That's what we're talking about, Counselor, or we think we need to talk about it. You might think there's a need to talk about the innovation awards that are going to be given next year. We don't, we want to talk about trackers, and why because we don't have trackers, we have a problem with detecting the sources, the contagions, the traceability. And why do you say here -- literally -- that they increase, that they are in budgets, 141 primary care squares -- you said, 141 squares. Budgets 2020 of the Galician Union: 8,448 people in primary care. It's not hard to find, it's the specific data, 8,448. You say they increase 141 next year. In 2021 it's 8,535, 87 plus. You're presenting some budgets yesterday that say there are 87 professionals in more than any category of primary care. And now you come here to say that they increase 141. Where are they? Who pays them? Let's see if this is the question: why do you think you can come here and lie openly about what they put in the budgets they presented yesterday and that nothing happens? But how are they going to increase 141? The budgets say it! Unless you lie to the budgets, that's another story. It's 8,448 last year and 8,575 in this one. See if you haven't read the budgets. It's 87!, 87 for a possible third wave, which nobody wants, but professionals say it's possible after Christmas. For the vaccination campaign ahead, which will be addressed in primary care, 87 more professionals and all categories in all primary health centres in Galicia?Oh, my God! That's what we want to talk about, Counselor. This is not the solution to the situation we are in. But you came here to talk... I'm so glad you've seen the reconstruction commission's appearances. We wanted it to be a specific commission on the vault. The PP voted against. But since some people participated, they heard — I assure — the insatiable timing of the system: more than 30% as an average term and more than 40% in illness. Do you know what's going on? When we bring this debate here, they tell us that we are alarmists, liars, that is not true, that everything is perfect. Since they've heard them, at least pay attention. This is the personal problem: timeliness. You say there's a 141% increase -- because you come here to say it -- and in the budgets it doesn't say that. We're not talking about a document that was presented six months ago — and see if someone's wrong! They introduced him yesterday! At least keep up the fight with the budgets! You guys just reacted we think it's wrong. You think it's good. That's a legitimate debate. But reacting, not planning. You came here today, spoke of the pandemic as fast as you could and went on to another subject. It's just that he's finished talking about the awards for innovation next year. Counselor, we're not in that. This country is not in it. The first wave was used to campaign. The second took them by blaming the government of Pedro Sánchez—he spoke more about the government of Pedro Sánchez than about the problems of the pandemic—and then they did nothing. The third - and appealing to Gandhi's appointment - to see if he's at least got them working. But let's talk about this, Mr Counsellor: of the trackers, of the primary professionals, of the regulatory problem that exists, of the gallimatics, of what we're going to do with the vaccination campaign, of why fewer cancers are diagnosed, of how we're going to recover the assistance capacity — which is normal if it's lost but we need to recover. We are talking about this rather than about the innovation awards or initiatives, Counsellor, which were approved in this Parliament a year and a half ago, saying the People's Party that were brought here to support an initiative that was already being taken.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u50	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u51	A year and a half ago it was already done. There was an initiative here to vote and now announce it as a novelty for the coming year. Counselor, this is a joke.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u52	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u53	Good morning. Good morning, Counselor. I'm going to start with what you just described as "normalized location of the Summer Hospital." And I'm going to tell you with all roundness that, as much as you've tried to use an aseptic, objective tone and give it a mere administrative process character, it doesn't hide the existing reality. Because not all complaints are inspected, not all inspections end up in file, not much less. It's the weird one in the Health Council that complaints get somewhere. Then don't give him the normal character. And I'm going to tell you more: look, it's a disciplinary file that can punish a professional with two years of disability and that he has absolutely no justification for bringing it up beyond revenge, beyond reprisal, and for defending the rights of the local women to be born in the Verín hospital. And you know it was for that. [[Applause]] And I'm telling you, at the most responsible of the Health Council, to paralyze that file. Because you don't have the slightest doubt that everyone who went out to the street defending the Verín Hospital, and defending women's right to give birth to that hospital, will continue to defend the Verín Hospital and will continue to defend their professionals. Because Verín doesn't even shut down Castrillo, that's pretty clear to you and the rest of the People's Party. [[Applause]] And, look, this is the fifth ordinary plenary since the beginning of the legislation, in a pandemic context like no other one has lived for many decades. And we had to wait for you to come to the fifth plenary, in the face of a pandemic situation and at the very most responsible for health, to pass absolutely stitches in front of that pandemic situation. Of course, if an image is worth more than a thousand words, the image of it coming here today to say, "This lets it parked" is more than eloquent. Because, of course, to attempt to steal the necessary and democratic contrast on the most important health pandemic in recent decades, and that the highest responsible practically only approach it, of course, can qualify in many ways. As usual, of course, you can't qualify. And after that, if you just pass with a few small remarks, you come here to release the same mantras that have been repeating their predecessors for years, those of a country's health of the wonders that you have in your head but that the Greeks and the Greeks don't see anywhere. That wonderful health you wanted to move here doesn't exist anywhere. Well, I, although you don't seem to want to, will talk about the pandemic situation in our country. Because, in order to deal with a pandemic situation like the one we're living with, the first thing is to start with a true diagnosis. And for which it is essential to have information and data. And for that, it would be good for you to end with the opacity that is still installed from the beginning. Because priority, Counselor, can't be imposed on an account at any price even if it doesn't match reality. And I want to start by showing you the BNG's concern, too, because the response that's given to Junta and the People's Party from the very first moment is centered on the media spiral rather than the emphasis on effective measures. That's more than contrasting. It focuses on restrictive measures directed towards individual responsibility, towards the criminalization of certain groups as responsible for such contagion. And I want to ask you where the measures are that it is for you to put the board on the table, which is for you to put the Health Council, to fight the crisis beyond deriving responsibility for these individual behaviors. What measures has the People's Party's Union taken to strengthen public health and as a key to fighting against the pandemic? What is the economic memory that derives from the actions carried out to combat cowardice? We'd like to know what that economic memory is, the people hired, the resources put in place, that material and human reinforcements implanted together together... those would be the things we'd like you to talk about today. Because, look, the restrictions are the last solution when the previous one has failed, when control fails, the early detection of cases, the quarantine of the infections. And there they failed strangely, Counselor. They've been telling us for months that everything is under control when it's not like that. On the contrary, they have erratic behavior and only based on pretending that reality is unknown. And I'll tell you again that the Greeks and the Greeks have the right to know what they're doing to Junta and based on what data they make the decisions they make. And today we still don't know what the data is based on for making decisions -- here we are, here we are not, here we go up the PCR, here we go down the PCR... here we go down the PCR. Because detection, contact study, access to the health system has been shown throughout the pandemic as the clearer tools that administrations must ensure to curb the virus. We regret — but indeed — that erratic behavior in carrying out diagnostic tests, which reduces the number of PCRs without knowing why, which is reduced in the Vigo area when the infections were increasing exponentially. We'd like to know what the basis of that behavior is. We'd like to know if you're going to be able to tell us today what the tracking system is, how many people. And that credit transfer that just approved of 2.5 million euros is to pay who, 700?, 1,200?, 6,000?, how many? We'd like them to give us that information for once. Because, look, doing less PCR tests probably gives a more presentable statistic, but it doesn't make fewer cases, Counselor. And you know that very well. They've been denying information on this issue for months. I also want to tell you that you can't restrict the pandemic to cold statistics given every day, if you go up 2, you go down 4 -- and that's also the data you want to give. Because we're talking about people behind the statistics with specific situations, and with concrete suffering. I also tell you that it would not be good for you to overestimate the limited descents to play short-term strategies, and not treat the Greeks and the Greeks as minors — because we are not — that you stop using the data to justify measures that we believe are not the right ones. Look, in Galicia there are already nearly 50,000 people who have been affected in one way or another by the pandemic. And the situation is still very worrying. You said we are in 100 cases below the average of the Spanish state, but it is that we are 200 and peak above what the World Health Organization considers reasonable — 25 cases per 100,000 inhabitants — to consider that the virus is under control. With which, it would be good if they also gave that data. It is also true that the care pressure remains very high: 456 people hospitalized, 96 people in ICU — four less than yesterday. But we have taken 1,161 dead people, Counsellor 15 over the last 24 hours, and the positivity of diagnostic tests is far from stable. And you know it's like that. So we believe that we can't stop taking stock and asking questions about the bill that's going on with us this second wave because we don't do things right in the first one, because we don't do well the escalation and not have done the duties. There's evidence, Counselor, and it's that, if you don't take note, we'll again have a third wave where you're going to make the same mistakes again because you're not properly prepared. And you came here the day after you presented the budgets in Parliament to make that image of Galicia in the country of wonders. It presents some budgets in which the Health Council loses relative positions within the budget set. Budget increases by 13.9 % on average and health by 1.6 points below that average, in the middle of a pandemic and after years of uneven cuts. You're here, actually, saying you're going to increase I don't know how many professionals. The budget I brought here thought you wouldn't dare give a data that wasn't in the budgets. I said, "You won't dare." But I brought the copy of the budget. I brought the copy and here it says, "8,535 versus 8,450." 83!, 83! Where do you get the data? What do they base on? I've given some data today and tomorrow with the normalness of who's mind every day. Just like the 20 trackers, the 6,000 or the 700... they're about the number of professionals, and the budgets are about to tell us that we're going to have better public health when it's not. I'm telling you that priority doesn't have to be to deceive the Greeks and the Greeks, but priority has to be to win the virus. And despite the fact that you're trying to get past points today about the situation of the vault, the fact is, if we take as a reference the last month since the new declaration of the state of alarm on October 23, we have to have 305 people died in Galicia in a month, almost 10 every day. We have to have 131 more people entering a month, 27 more in the ICU, who still have 8,600 positive people. I mean, the situation is far from being controlled. And that would deserve you to come here today to explain and really tell us what's going on, because the worst thing you can do is to settle down in a climate of favor by saying that everything's better, waiting, assuming, starting to put the vaccines...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u54	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u55	...instead of acting on the risk. I, therefore, want to ask you, Counselor, to correct you. I ask you to abandon appearance management and tele-media measures by a real strategy with staff, materials and resources. Because a health strategy needs those three things. I'll finish by telling you that there are a lot of people who have been aware of the public health situation during this pandemic. A lot of others we already knew what that situation was. Many professionals, many groups, have come to denounce the situation of public health, which gave the alarm voice of deterioration of health, the lack of personnel, the alarm voice of work insecurity, the constant increase that never ceases, the alarm voice of waiting lists...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u56	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u57	...calls pressing to take action in the face of an overcrowded health situation. And you, with the explanation you gave here today, did not put any real measures to solve these problems.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u58	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u59	With which I hope in his next intervention he talks to us about real measures...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u61	...to face this situation — I insist — in the midst of a brutal pandemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u62	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u63	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. First of all, Counsellor, I want to thank you for coming to Parliament. Thank you for informing this House about the evolution of the pandemic and its lines of action to continue to improve the health system during this legislation. I welcome the debate on health in this Parliament. You've already experienced an interpellation and a question, but it's in these instances when the opposition can express its political proposal about health in a more complete way. And I'm sorry to inform you that this is the level you just saw. You just got to this Parliament, but some of us have been here for four years. And I can assure you that four years have been listening exactly to the same canteen, always the same motto: cuts, dismantling, precariousness, destruction of public health... and now they're touching on the trackers. It's a constant, identical speech in all the voices and voices of the different groups. Look, the only difference is that a few months ago this speech was defended by four groups representing 34 Members, and today it is defended by two groups representing 33 Members. There are no variations in the rest. Criticism, slogans, proposals are always the same, everything is the same as before the elections. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, you based your entire speech on the previous legislation in a frontal attack on Welsh public health, disparaging your services and insulting your managers. And there were elections in which health — yes, the pandemic — was the central theme of political debate. And you lost. Most of the Greeks said they don't buy that speech, they don't believe it. But, of course, what you think of citizenship doesn't matter. You think you're right, say what the people say, and that has a name, that's called sovereignty. I don't ask them to applaud the Government, much less. Of course, his role is to criticize him and present an alternative. But, ladies and gentlemen, that alternative cannot be exactly the same as the Greeks have already refused them four times in the polls. That's an insult to the intelligence of the people of this country. In the election results there are two mandates: one that wins, so that they keep moving along the same path — and that's what the advisor explained today in his line proposal — and another that they lose, to rectify, to present an alternative but not the same again, since that alternative has already been defeated. And you understand this electoral mandate exactly the other way around, they come here to ask you to correct whoever's doing what voters asked you to do. And in the meantime, you keep intact what the voters asked them to correct. Curious concept of democracy! [[Applause]] It's not new, we know it's hard for you to rectify. [[Applause]] You've explained here often all the improvements, you've just made a clear diagnosis of the health system by putting in value all that's done up to now, which are the basis for continuing to improve and grow. But here I want to stop, Mr. Torrado. With the vaccination campaign take care. It's important that your central government plan it, because I assure you that the Greek has planned it. And it seems like a lie that you're talking about transparency when we read in the press just recently that they hurt the Ministry of Health because of its opacity during the pandemic. [[Murmurs.]] We all read it in the press, yes, apply the story. And here we also hear, about Verín — both groups — "Vengeance", we hear "reprehensiveness"... this is just a complaint that a pediatrician partner made to the gynaecologist. You say you always defend the professionals. What's wrong? Isn't that pediatrician inside the professionals you're defending? Of course, that's the way it is! [[Applause]] Well, the delivery goes well, the pediatrician says that this child has a problem and we have to move him to Ourense. [[Applause]] And what's the matter, you decide the gynaecologist? As far as I know, who decides, once the child is born, she's the pediatrician. What's wrong? That pediatrician makes a complaint. So what's the matter, Sergas is hiding the complaint? No, sir, Sergas has to defend all healthcare professionals. That's right. There's nothing else. The easy thing would be to hide it and not to talk more about Verín, to shut up. No, gentlemen, things don't happen that way. Look, Counselor, I'm going to give you some examples of what happened in the previous legislation. Both the PSOE and the BNG said in the past legislation that the reform of the Health Act was to close comarcas hospitals. Here we have the 2021 budget, and we see departures for enlargement. They lied! They lied and they won't rectify! The Health Insurance Act was going to mean a massive derivation to private health. Well, years later it was shown that all the interventions and consultations, which accelerated, were done in public health. Alvaro Cunqueiro Hospital was a disaster and a private hospital. Well, a little while ago we could see that the mayor of Vigo didn't want to give him water and he didn't want to give birth to that hospital. He had to hide and listen when Minister Illa came, who said that hospital was one of Spain's major infrastructures. But no, not rectified, no. When Counsellor Almuína — who is there — introduced in 2017, at a meeting in this plenary session, the Telea system, Mrs Prado, you said that it was decapitalizing the health system and that it was no solution. Well, look, in this recent pandemic, thanks to the Telea system, our patients were in perfectly controlled and monitored houses, and in our hospitals there was no lack of a bed in the ICU or a bed in the plants. But they don't correct either. In short, Counsellor, you get used to this, because this is the opposition which unfortunately seems to us to have during a further legislative process in this Galician Parliament, which I both defend and oppose. In order to go against the government, it's all good. They keep talking about cuts. Well, this budget we have is much bigger than they had in times of kindness. This year we have — I think it is — 472 million euros more than last year. They're still talking about privatization. But don't you read what the Board of Auditors says? Because the Board of Auditors in 2018 said that we never passed from 5% and in the years of the Bipartite—when they ruled, in 2009—was 6%. Moreover, in the past full we voted here for a resolution to ask the Board to keep that expenditure below 5%, and they didn't support it. And they're still talking about dismantling public health. They don't seem to hear or understand what has been done until now or what you yourself have just broadcast from this very forum. But, look, when you do such an exaggerated and twisted speech about public health, what happens is that the Greek people don't believe it, they don't buy that speech. And when they don't believe it, instead of believing it's you who were wrong, they're convinced that it's the people who got the wrong vote. And they have to carry on with it. Counsellor, since the People's Group we are going to support the reforms that you have made today because we are aware that public health has problems that need to be solved, and we know that since the Council they are in. And what is clear is that these problems, of course, are neither the ones that say the opposition nor have the solutions that propose the opposition. And that's why Galician citizenship charged a government of the People's Party with solving them, charged the People's Party with taking care of health in the midst of a serious health crisis, just as it did in 2009, with taking charge of the economy at the beginning of an economic crisis. Because the Greek people see who has realistic and serious approaches and who doesn't. And now the theme of opposition groups is that, with the pandemic, Junta wants to win the story but loses reality. My impression, of course, is that it's exactly the opposite: reality is the one that's putting the whole account of the opposition on the ground. The dismantled health you're talking about wouldn't have resisted a pandemic of this virulence, and he did. A government as disastrous as you paint wouldn't have the least bad data from Spain in the incidence of the virus, positivity of evidence or hospital occupation, and it has us. And, Mrs. Prado, you were saying the other day -- and today you repeated something similar again -- that it had to be a coincidence, or because of the geographic position we have. I know you see Galicia as an independent world, Mrs. Prado, but geographically both Asturias and Portugal have them next door and the data are what they are. Galicia has this data because it has a government that manages, which takes balanced and sensible measures. And he also takes them with scientific support because he relies on an independent clinical committee whose composition is completely transparent. And since it is reality, it seems that the opposition is set up in negationism. And we see things here like, for example, what Dr. Ponton said in the previous plenary about how the Board reduced the evidence to improve the data for the presence of the president. And all he does is disqualify those who make those claims. That, let's go! it's to have no scientific knowledge at all. The number of tests would not be positive, but quite the opposite. In cases like hospital occupation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u64	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u65	...or the rate of positivity itself — already stated — precisely the fewer proofs are made. So that conspiracy theory has absolutely no basis. The same is true of PSOE when Mr. Tomé maintains that the 34 members of the Clinical Committee do things because they want them. No, these statements, of course deeply disrespectful to professionals who are neither PP nor PSOE, have no basis. But neither do we listen to Mr. Gonzalo Caballero — because, of course, he will not dare to take Mr. Tomé's against him — and now this, of course, is a disgusting spectacle for all of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u66	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u67	I'm done. Counsellor, from the People's Group, we want to encourage you in this hard task that you have ahead and reassure you about what you have to hear from the opposition, there's nothing new. But the Greek people know what they do and that's why they chose the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u68	Thank you very much, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u69	...to manage these four years. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u70	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] You have the word, for the replica shift, the Health Counsellor, Mr. García Comesaña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Torrado, he drew attention to the fact that, out of 28 sheets I read with arrest and trying to transmit everything I wanted to transmit in this session, you had two things left: the innovation awards and the ostomized ones. I don't know what happened to the rest of the sheets. And really, what I said about the ostomized patients -- and go ahead with my recognition and my understanding of the situation they are suffering -- is that, when you do a new work in Sergas, the baths for ostomized people will be incorporated as you have done up to now. I don't know what's wrong with saying that. And from the innovation awards I also said -- and perhaps you didn't hear -- that we're going to do the second edition, but within a package I was talking about, in general, innovation -- an innovation, by the way, recognised at European and national level. I see that doesn't generate any kind of recognition for you. [[Applause]] You tell me I'm not talking about the vaccination plan. I'd like that, Mr. Torrado! I'd like that! Because it turns out we've been part of a group of vaccines since September 7. There's a counselor who works in that group of vaccines, who works with his knowledge and knowledge. And it turns out that by tomorrow afternoon it's announced that the Ministry will finally transfer that vaccination plan to us. Oh, but we know that today. The Council of Ministers has already told the vaccination plan without the autonomous communities knowing absolutely nothing until now of the vaccination plan. That's why I can't talk to you, because I'm loyal and I'm not talking about the vaccination plan before the Ministry transfers it tomorrow afternoon. [[Applause]] You tell me that active and positive cases are not the same. Whenever you want, I'll explain it with arrest. You asked, you cried for the data, the data, the data... well, the data is. And now what do we want? Daily data. We'll give them to you, too, Mr. Torrado. If the problem of the municipalities is not the data! The problem of municipalities is the measures that affect them for competences. The data is missing. What happens, if there are five cases, it acts one way and if there are seven, it acts another? It's good to be dizzy with the data theme! You're there, Mr. Torrado, and you'll tell me how you want us to explain positive and active things to you. Of course we give it to him, no problem. Speaking of information, Mrs. Prado, I believe that the Galego Health Service, the Council and the Board have been an example of transparency in the data since the minute. First of all, in this parliamentary headquarters, which, as you well said, I have seen several times, today on my own initiative and other times on your own — I remember that the first day I came here has already guessed why I didn't come on my own initiative, and today I have seen — I have already said since that first day that the Galician Health Service has put that in the hands of the most important people who have to have the data: the health care. I think it was from the first autonomous communities in which in electronic clinical history we have — it's a shame, but we have it — it incorporates information from the active cases that each doctor has in his or her coupon — and each nurse. He made available to these professionals the Telea system — he didn't know his opinion last year, but I'm glad to know now — so that this follow-up could be done. That information was basic and the professionals had it. But then the Council and the Board gave it to me every day. You tell me I didn't talk about data, but then you throw me the data I just told you. The data were always, absolutely always: the number of cases per health area, the incomes, the deceased — unfortunately — absolutely everything. You'll tell me the data we don't give. You'd better have all the data that the Clinical Committee reviews every day — especially on Tuesdays and Fridays — you too. No problem, what we lack are epidemiologists! If you're an epidemiologist, happy to give them and that you also provide solutions. [[Murmurs.]] The decisions taken by the Clinical Committee — I have also repeated them several times — are based on the case data but, above all — and I insist again — on the information that territorial heads, especially preventive medical services, move on the grotesque, on traceability, on the number of cases orphans... I don't know how many more times you have to say it, but you don't seem to understand it, nor does Mr. Torrado. The decisions are taken in this way. But, well, the good decision was yours, Mrs. Prado: confinement. When the cases began to rise on the second fortnight of October, you and your party said, "No, the solution is confinement. And the Council of Galicia, with the Clinical Committee, decided that confinement was not the solution and put in place measures, put in place the "The Carballin model", which I just explained. Mr. Torrado has also been ostomized and awarded for innovation. In the third of my intervention on the pandemic, I don't know where you were either, because it was a third of my time talking about the pandemic. And here I have commented on several aspects of the evolution of the pandemic — which, if you have any doubts about one in particular, I also insist — but I repeat, with the data that have been handled, the decisions have been made on the basis of that support from the Clinical Committee. And, I repeat, that Clinical Committee was what it recommended to us — and to Junta so decided — to take surgical measures for municipalities, serious measures!, which here it seems that no action has been taken. They took very serious measures, as was the closing of the inn. But those measures were taken with the conviction that they would yield results. And last Friday a council like The Carballin — I repeat again — went from 1,240, from accumulated incidence to fourteen days, to 85,5. If everything goes well, today some other council will achieve that result and come out of these tough confinement measures. And we will continue to do so with all the councils, because measures are taken and measures work, Mrs Pardo — Mrs Prado, I am sorry. Then, as far as the flu vaccines were concerned, we insisted once again that the priority population is the target population. And there they'll always meet us, trying to vaccinate those people who, according to their conditions, need the vaccine. You said, Mr. Torrado, that the waiting list data was increased to 101 days. No, it's not. They didn't increase 101 days. They went from 53 in December last year — historical data — to 101 in that Ministry's data. But it's not to increase 101, because if not, we'd be in a hundred and sixty and something. Well, we're in 101, well below most autonomous communities. Nobody escapes the situation that we live in surgical activity, like we don't! For two months we were practically unable to operate any patient but oncotoxic patients. And I have to say they've all operated. And here I want to make a special call for attention to the behavior, of course, of health care. But sometimes they don't talk enough about them, about the professionals who work in the oncology services, whether it's medical, radiotherapy or even diagnostic evidence. These professionals didn't leave a single day to go to the work center. They attended all patients with medical and radiotherapy oncology — even some of them putting shifts at night to be able to treat these patients, when the time between patients and patients had to increase them to clean up the treatment machines, for example. They took shifts at night to treat these patients, and now I have to hear that oncotoxic patients weren't treated. It's fake! Diagnosed oncotoxic patients have all been treated. I'm not going to say that in some patients, in the diagnostic process, there was no delay in some evidence -- without knowing it was oncoholic and we knew it later. That can happen and, of course, we regret it. And we'll take steps to keep that from happening. But to say that cancer patients have been delayed isn't true, Mr. Torrado, it's not true. You were talking about presence. Look, we said in this parliamentary headquarters that in primary care doctors, family doctors, what we had registered in information systems is that presence was between 25% and 30%. And we keep saying that. That's right. If we analyze the rest of the categories, the nursing facility, for example, is at 85%. The average value is not 25%, 30% -- what I said there was a moment -- like you, of course, as you were thinking about ostomizeds and innovation prizes, maybe you didn't realize -- was that the goal for family doctors was to reach 40%, and I keep saying, that's our goal. We're between 25% and 30% in family doctors, and we want to put tools next to the performances of the family doctor so he can spend more time with the presence. I broke those tools too, but again, you didn't hear them. I talked about improving the capacity of the administrative staff so that they can help with those tasks, I said that the nursing professional can start doing that renewal, cancellation or adjustment of prescription doses. I said several things to try to free the family doctor time and that he can spend more time with those patients he thinks he has to do with it. Because we argue that the decision on who is present and who is telematics is from the head doctor, in this case. So I think that's perfectly explained in that way. I also spoke of a plan to recover surgical activity. I said it, then I can leave it written. I talked about that plan and I talked about many other plans that, both you and Mrs. Prado, didn't seem to listen. I'm going to talk about a moment's notice. I, if someone told me to report her to put her in a drawer, I don't think she'd listened well. Isn't that right? The Greek public health system — I repeat — is twenty-five years old and has transparent and established mechanisms for when a professional makes some kind of statement, denounces or alerts about a behavior, about another professional's behavior. We have mechanisms to clarify. You interview everywhere, take note of everything and listen. And the inspector, the instructor who does this process, finally draws his conclusions. Those conclusions, in addition, those involved have access to them, and they can argue. It's the stage we're at now. I don't think it's worth it. I said at first I knew Dr. Castrillo. I respect him professionally, I have nothing to say about him. But I also have to say that I respect professionally the rest of the specialists and also the inspection of health services that the Galician Health Service has to do its job. I'm sure he'll do it right. I have noted here the restrictive measures, Mrs Prado. Sure, that's what I was saying. The restrictive measures that we put in place seem to him little compared to the confinement, which was what you wanted to do 15 days ago, when the epidemiological situation in Galicia grew steadily until the Clinical Committee and the Council took the decision to take these restrictive measures. Yes, of course they're restrictive — and we've already asked for early forgiveness for the nuisances that they would cause to the citizenry — but we understand that it was a collective effort that we all had to do to reverse this. And, look, that reversal, for now — with all the prudence of the world, of course, yes, with all the prudence of the world — is going to produce. We have the situation of Carballino, which I have already commented on, or the situation of Verín, for example; and we have the situation of a municipality like Santiago, or of a municipality like Ourense, which, still failing to achieve these results, thanks to the effort of citizenship and certain sectors of these councils, are reaching values that allow us to think that in a short time these measures could be released and returned to a certain normality — always, I insist, with caution. But we also see that there are other areas where these results are not being produced. And what we're doing is we're putting more measures on the table, selective pencils, increasing the PCRs, Mrs. Prado, with the PCRs, I don't know how to say it. I'm going to put here a chart that collects the increase in PCRs in the last few weeks. PCRs continue to increase. And if you don't, you have it very easy, you approach a microbiology service at night, at noon at night, and you'll see that the seven microbiology services of the public health system in Galicia are working at night as well. So -- I don't know how to define it -- to say that you don't become a PCR or that if you do less is, really, not being in this world. Every day they get more, Mrs. Prado. And besides -- I've also said it in that part that they haven't heard -- in addition to the PCR, we've added 50,000 -- first -- and 300,000 tests -- after -- of additional antigens, which also add up. I also spoke — another thing they shouldn't listen to — about saliva tests with PCR to the workers of social health care homes. There's no autonomous community in Spain that's doing a job like this for health care professionals. These evidences — as I have explained too — the Ministry does not recognize them as such PCRs because they are made with a pooling system that, although it opens up the possibility of using them in its documents, do not count. And we don't want to fool anyone. We don't wear them, I'd miss them any more, but we have to add them. There are 60,000 more evidence per pooling that is being done, especially — I said — among the professionals of the socio-health homes of all Galicia — more than 15,000 every 15 days — and also in the health professionals of several centres of the Galician Health Service. With which, I repeat, the issue of the PCR is to insist on the same subject. You were also talking about the budget. Well, 470 million euros in addition to you must be of little value. All I have to say is, the data I think it's demolition. You said we didn't take real action. Then you will ask the neighbours of Carballin, the neighbors of Verín or other neighbors. Or ask the neighbors of Ribeira, the neighbors of Ribadavia, the neighbors of Vigo this weekend, or this coming weekend, about the massive slaves. You can ask everyone who's involved in doing a lot of things in this case. Mr. Torrado, the theme of the squares would be much easier — I also explained it in that part that you have not heard — if the replenishment rate — once again — would allow it to be covered. You'll tell me later in the reply -- I suppose -- what you think of the replenishment rate. Let us once again urge the Government of the State on that subject, because it seems to us that this is the moment. If the replacement rate is not released at the moment and the vacant squares we have without occupation are not allowed to be occupied, I don't know when they will be able to occupy. With regard to the squares, a small nuance—because perhaps this part escapes—there are squares which are converted, which are amortized; for example, those of the ODAs. Of course, you know about the APD, don't you? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Or maybe we'd rather still hire APD. No, look, in the Galician Health Service, about the ODAs, which we respect their work, we've been converting them for some time. When an ODA retires, that square amortizes and creates a new one. That's, if you need it, the explanation; but, if you want, I'll give you more detail. Finally, I believe — I repeat — that I have made an effort to explain several things. First of all — and so I started the speech — I tried to move to this House the current state of the pandemic situation, which is a commitment that the Government of Greece has. That's what I devoted a third of my intervention. I gave all the data I had available, the same ones we shared — on the other hand — with the Clinical Committee or with the professionals who are asking us for them. And the rest of my time I've been talking about all the projects, already in human resources, infrastructure, plans and programs to develop -- and I've talked about an important number of them -- but I repeat that you seem to have only ostomized patients and innovation awards. Too bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u72	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We opened a special round of clarifications, with the Government's double. And, first of all, you have the floor, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr Torrido Quintela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u73	Thank you, President. Counselor, you have read 28 sheets. I'm going to explain to you a little bit the parliamentary dynamics. We can't answer everyone. You have three timeless interventions and we have two very large measures. That's why, remember, I didn't tell you that I didn't think the measures for the ostomized were wrong. I told him we had a year and a half to discuss them here. I told him the important thing was what he wasn't talking about. But don't worry, that I won't do it with that tone or the call of sovereigns who made us the spokesperson for the PP. I'm not going to tell anyone that it's superb. And if I say so, it's a mistake and I apologize. I'm not going to say that it's superb, that it doesn't know or that it doesn't know, that it's terms that you've just used. By the way, with the consent of Parliament's presidency. [[Applause]] But since I'm not going to use that criterion, I'm going to try to debate politics, politics, Counsellor. Yes, it seems worrying to us that you hadn't talked about the vaccination plan and the prize itself. And yes, it seems worrying that we have to discuss asset and positive data. You've got unlimited time and you've just dedicated yourself to saying that I'm not into it. I'll use part of my time. If there are -- let's put -- 40 people, and they go in 5 and they go out 2, there's 43. The increase in people is 3, but the number of people who came in is 5. It's not the same active as positive. Do you know what the problem is? That you know this perfectly and you're trying to fool us. You know this perfectly because this is very simple, and you know this and much more. [[Applause]] But what we say about criteria is that they have to be clear, that they have to be clear. And we also told him -- that he didn't listen to it -- that we're going to support the measures and the model they use, although in the case of Carballino it worked but in the case of Pontevedra-Salnes it's not working. We understand it's hard to make decisions. But what we're telling them is that they have to explain the criteria. And this seems to be what we disagree about. We know what we disagree about. Another thing is that you take it for the staff. We also explain that the vaccination campaign surprises us that it doesn't say anything. I insist, of the largest and most important vaccination campaign in our history, you say nothing in your first intervention — no time limit. And secondly, he says he does it out of loyalty, because it's a central government problem. And then we ask ourselves, we ask ourselves the question — because you know it's a debate, we interact, we don't need to read 28 leaflets, we can interact in the debate — and the question is that, if it's a central government problem, have you not planned anything?, are you waiting for them to tell you? They don't have any plans, don't they know if they're going to do it in primary or in hospitals, don't they? Don't you have any criteria on how they're going to do it? This is what we have been thinking, despite what the People's Party shouts — I don't know why, but shouts, it's usual, shouts.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u74	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u75	So, you haven't proposed anything, you haven't had any criteria about whether we're doctors or doctors, whether you're the nursing staff, whether you're going to be in the CAP or if you're going to do it at home. They don't have any plans. He didn't consider it appropriate to tell any of this. That's right, you've come to tell me here that the problem of the number box is the O.P.D. problem. Do you know what's going on? The budgets already count them, and they keep saying that you lied. It's not 141, it's 87 -- there wouldn't be many 141 -- It is that they are accounted for — last year and this year — and therefore the difference is 87. And that's the problem. Nor do we say that it seems good or bad — we did not say it, and we understand the difficulties — that the target is 40% of primary care presence at Christmas. What we said is that PP's been saying long ago, weeks ago, that we're in half. And you just recognized that you didn't. That's what we say, that we have this problem. That's what we're saying. And we also draw your attention to the problem of temporality, which you didn't mention. And since you have another intervention and you can talk without us having a replica -- this is the subject of the debate, which we cannot deal with, but we have to focus on -- because you can do it. And if we make proposals, we don't have that much time, but we make some proposals. I've heard here some supposed lessons about the proposals. And sometimes I pick up some anecdote. If you want, by taking anecdotes on the proposals — and it does not go with you in this case — today there is full, tomorrow there is full and Thursday there is 5th Health Commission, let me see how many initiatives the PP presents. I'll tell him. They're less than one. That is the level of parliamentary work of the proposals. So when they talk to us about proposing things, then, of course, one goes to parliamentary work and says, "Well, here we are." [[Applause]] Finally, Counsellor, we are the ones we are asking you — only other debates, in which we are not going to enter, about which is representative democracy and that of winning and losing, which uses much Trump, far from representative democracy and of what people feel when they are represented, even when they are not majority, that sometimes they are not and sometimes yes — is that the focus of debate and conviction about the important does not seem to be where we think they should be. Because you, in your first intervention -- in the second speech he spoke a little more and sure enough more, because we have no right to replicate -- he spoke more about marketing than about reality. And reality is in the problems we have with the pandemic. And if you do -- you can review the intervention later -- you've made a personal attack -- don't take me wrong because I know it's not your attitude -- that you've got a little bit overpowered because you took the criticism wrong. I'm sorry she was very exaggerated, but the feeling of indignation was powerful. You can review it, but we don't criticise any measures...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u76	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u77	...we don't criticize him for any measures. But that's the question. If we come here and don't applaud them, you look bad. And we're not here to applaud them. We're here to tell you that it seems to us that in the presence of a counselor, seven months after the previous appearance of a counselor, in full pandemic...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u78	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u79	...should have talked about the pandemic and not, yes, Counsellor, about the innovation awards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u80	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] On behalf of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado Cores has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u81	After the very silent intervention of the People's Party Member, of which we have learned so much continuously, because I don't know if there's much left to say. Because, of course, we have to keep bringing here questions not for the last four years, but for the last eight or eleven years, because they are problems that have not been solved. And, of course, they're not putting on the table tools to solve them. And, look, who did a frontal attack on public health was not the opposition, it was the People's Party in the Government of Unity, which has taken eleven years of constant attacks on public health, which has a brutal deterioration. That's the reality. [[Applause]] And I also want to make it clear to you, Madam, that we do not understand what the counselor here has to say. We understand that, but we do not agree, at all, with that argumental line. And that's why we fought her. Of course we understand it, and we fight that line. We understand it and we don't share it, and that's why we fight it with all the force. With all due respect, and with all due affection, Counselor, example of transparency, of what? The action of the Galician Union was qualified by all men as the most opaque in the Spanish state. There are magazines and journalism professionals, who also qualified her as the most opaque of the information she was providing. So, it's not like we said, it's that she was qualified like that and there's the hemerotheque so you can consult her, if you haven't had time to do it yet. And what we ask for is the data that makes it easier for most of the other governments, or a very important part of them. Nothing, no Asian luxury!, the normal thing in a democracy, not that data that makes it easy after it is made available to the press, or in that way, so that it's hard to make a clear follow-up and for those who aren't up-to-date, it seems to you that the data actually transmits something that they don't really transmit. And the problem is, there's no need to take restrictive measures, Counselor. The problem is that there is a need for restrictive measures because they have not been taken enough not to have to reach that situation, because they have not acted to avoid reaching that situation. That's the problem. The problem is when restrictive measures are practically the only measures taken. That's the problem. And, look, the BNG proposal is very clear: that the priority must be to win the virus, to act so that it will not take the lead again, that it will take a government to deal with and put it to the source, that it will have the courage to take the measures to take — not the measures to be taken on television, but the real measures to be taken. Because the lack of foresight to address the first wave was manifest. The lack of anticipation or anticipation or implementation of measures, knowing that a second wave would arrive, was also manifest. And the bill we're paying, the impact on health, the impact on health pressure and death could partly be avoided. And what we're demanding from you, Counselor, is that you don't make the mistake of the first slip, that of acting wanting to be the champions, but they act to really take the measures that are needed, to predict the risk of a third wave in a winter season, much colder, with much more activity in the interior, and that can pass that third wave, again, an invoice that we consider to be impossible. The Greeks and the Greeks have the problem of cowardice and we have many other health problems, of course. We have a problem with the precariousness of the staff — which you have not even dealt with above — a situation of precariousness which has come here to denounce this commission of economic reactivation. And by the way, I find it very nice that you have listened carefully to Mrs. Aldecoa and the López-Pardo, but I also ask you to get to know the conclusions of the technical council, in which more than 200 professionals have worked to reach conclusions and agreements, and that they have done so for a commitment from the Council in exchange for a strike. And that commitment, because we don't know anything at all. That's why I'm asking you to get to know those conclusions. And since we're talking about personnel and precariousness, you've previously referred to the investigation, and I also want to ask you -- and I hope you have to answer it -- for when you're going to convene the bargaining table of the investigator's staff, who has committed himself to them, on that minister's visit, to whom you would call her as soon as possible. I'd like you to, since you're here, even though in the evening the BNG brings an initiative here asking you to call, tell us when it's going to call you. And, of course, we are very concerned, Counselor, with the objective of reviving primary care by 40% at the end of the year. Because you know that's not enough, and you've also committed here to taking all the measures sufficient to reactivate the presence activity in primary care. That considers that 40% at the end of the year is what the population of Galicia needs, of course they are very concerned about.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u82	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u83	And we are making proposals — and I am finishing — in a very quick way: that it activates this presence activity in primary care, that it establishes clear and unified protocols so that any Galician and Galician have the same rights to access primary care, that it increases the number of professionals that are needed to meet all needs — that are not enough or much less at this time — that it ends with precaution with a stable contract, and that it does not play to say "750 nursing contracts", which knows that these are contracts that end this month...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u84	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u85	...and don't play cheating and incorporate the necessary categories...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u87	...that at this moment there is, to make public the waiting lists of hospital care...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u88	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u89	...and finish, Mr. President, that I had to make them public in July, Counsellor; and make a plan to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u90	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u91	...end with them, because there are so many people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Prado, time is up. [[Applause]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u93	Good morning again. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counselor, I must congratulate you and thank you again for your presence. You've often explained each and every step that they took and are taking in the management of the pandemic. He's talking about PCR, he's talking about pencils, he's talking about the intense work being done in microbiology services, they're working day and night. He also talked about the lines of work that will be carried out from the Council in this complicated and difficult legislation that we have ahead; great lines of work to continue to advance in the improvement of primary care, of the mental health plan — such an important plan, and that will be what will leave this pandemic once we finish with the virus — of the Greek plan of dementia, of rare diseases, of oncohematology, of Hado, of Telea, of equal plans for Sergas personnel, of the protocol on gender identity. He also spoke of Sergas' human resources plan. But you see it's the same, there's no variation in either the first or the second intervention. Here they come with an imposed speech and, whatever you say, they'll always be the same canteen. They still don't listen, and you said they're talking to Carballino's neighbors. I've already told them more than ever that they have to talk to everyone, not only them, but all of them. You don't have to talk only to the one who dances to the water, you have to listen to the whole Greek town. Mr. Torrado, you said there's a Health Committee on Thursday, but Wednesday is the Day of Gender Violence and you don't know if you've read the agenda, but you're coming to attend the Secretary General of Equality. So don't worry, the other one's not yet on the agenda. This Thursday comes the Secretary of Equality. And, look, at this same plenary session — if, at this same plenary session — there are initiatives to boost equality. [[Murmurs.]] I don't know how many of you presented, but, look, let's keep talking about what it brings us here today. [[Murmurs.]] Counselor, you spoke of stability in your presence, of what you were wondering here. He recognized that measures must be taken to increase the stability of professionals. And in that we all agree, but the opposition's speech believes me to be inescapable. Look, in the Reactivation Committee, you talked about a compatriot who complained, as we all happened when we started in the profession, in the beginning, that we have jobs that, of course, are not stable, that we are going from place to place. That's always the way it is. Then the opposition told him that this had to be solved. But, of course, it's very hard to solve, because in Sergas there can't be absolute stability for all professionals. Because people who are fixed have days of free will, have vacations, one day get sick and take a fall. So these are services where there must always be a certain degree of instability, because we all have — and the staff has done so — work rights. And you have to do them because, if you don't, I don't know how all these things will be covered, I don't know what proposals you have in opposition. They want to blow and sorge at the same time. I told the fact that they have to increase their rights for days off, but I told the possible ones that they can't be spending years covering days off. What are we left with? Who are they lying to, gentlemen? Did you, did you, did you, all of you? We also heard, as far as the Health Act was concerned, that it was a legal chapuza. That's in the media. But, look, opposition gentlemen, the proposed reform of the Health Act that registered the People's Group neither restricts any rights nor is persecution or invades any freedom, and at least it's a legal sham, as Mrs. Pontón says. He only comes to give a solution to the legal insecurity in which we live. The Organic Law of extraordinary public health measures, dated 1986, said exactly: "In order to control communicable diseases, the health authority, in addition to carrying out general preventive actions, may take appropriate measures for the control of the sick, of persons who are or have been in contact with them and with the immediate environment, as well as those deemed necessary in case of risk of a communicable nature." It says "the appropriate measures and what they consider necessary." With this rule they have to operate the autonomous communities and the courts, and what is done with the proposal is to specify what are those timely measures and which are deemed necessary, to determine how they should be done, to define which rights citizens have and which requires the administrations to take them. What he does is put guarantees, put guarantees. The fact that you think you don't need to regulate it, after months of saying, from the councils they rule, that there was no clear procedure to sanction, is surprising. Looks like you're always on the side of who violates the rules. We, of course not. We know that we live in hard times, difficult times, complicated times that none of us remember of our generations. But we have confidence and certainty that we have a government that manages, governs and thinks in the interests of all the Greeks. And that, Counselor, gives us confidence. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Friend. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Close the check-in for Mr. Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u95	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Torrado, I'm going to insist on the vaccination plan, and I'm going to insist on your loyalty. I repeat again that the Galician Union has been participating since the work group of vaccines was created — September 7, to be exact. At that meeting of the Interterritorial Council that group was created, and Galicia proposed its technician, who has been working since then. The commitment of the Galician Union to the Ministry of Health is that, until this group presents its document to the International Council, the Galician Union is waiting for this proposal from the technical group, group — it is done that I do not even say from the Ministry— consisting of eight technicians of vaccines from autonomous communities of all colors and types, professionals from different scientific areas, with some support from mathematics. And these people are making a document in which they make proposals on many aspects, of course. We know, because we're not close to the debate, as are the things in the known vaccines, in the transport systems, in the vials that are needed. In all that you're working on, Mr. Torrado, but I won't tell you here... No, but let me explain. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela waves us from the stage.]] Because the Ministry takes the working group document tomorrow afternoon, which I don't know in particular because I think the technical group has to work independently and technically. And when tomorrow at the present time, for I will be able to tell you, and to whom you think appropriate and to all members of this House, the plan. Obviously, we have our idea, of course, would miss more!, and at this point, discover that the place to vaccinate is primary care, because it's a little... well, questionable, right? But in any case, as I say, until tomorrow afternoon the Ministry presents that document because we will not think about it or forward anything about that document — I repeat — because we do not know it, Mr Torrado. [[Applause]] I don't know the document, and I think that no health adviser from any autonomous community — perhaps some -- knows the document. We don't know him and therefore really can't tell me to speak of a document I don't know, Mr. Torrado. I don't know the document. I repeat that I am not alien, nor are we alien in the Council, to the debate on this document. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, on the subject of diagnostics and positive cases, I'm sorry if my intervention seemed to you wrong. Nothing further from my intention. What is true is that, in order to maintain I don't say coherence but rather a homogeneity in the data, since the Ministry's daily report talks about active cases, the easiest thing is to talk about it all. Because if we start talking about assets, positives, those who enter and those who leave, we won't understand ourselves nor will citizenship understand it. In any case, I have to tell you, Mr. Torrado, that, in the more than eighty video conferencing we had in this period with the municipalities that have some kind of restriction -- and they come from before -- if you give these details. The information each mayor asks for, or that every concierge asks for, without any problem. And explain what needs to be explained. We have no problem with that. As for the presence, I insist again that I never spoke at any time of a different fact of the presence of primary care doctors. We say primary doctors are at 25% or 30%. Two things seem good to us. One is that it is the family doctor who determines, when he receives the call from the patient, whether he has to see the patient in presence or not. He's got enough criteria and tools to do it. We're working to get more tools even and you can spend more time if you need it. And we're saying that there are other categories that are in other values, logically, like, for example, nursing. I can't tell you any more, Mr. Torrado, than this. On stability in employment, I believe that I have commented on several aspects of stability — and in passing, because I have told Mrs Prado. I talked about 750 nursing contracts, which, in fact, can end tomorrow or last but which, instead of hiring them for a month, for fifteen days — as we came by different circumstances, and which also pointed very well to the doctor Friend about why we do so—for we have proposed to do many of them for six months—and also for one year in an important percentage. Maybe that doesn't seem like stability to you, but we think it's stability. And I also said not only in nursing, but there were a significant number of contracts in other categories, such as auxiliary, cell phones, PSX or microbiologists, for example. Yes, we want to move forward in stability. I also announced a human resources management plan that will, of course, collect these trends. Also, of course, we've been on continuity contracts for some time, both in the family doctor and in the nursing field, where we want to keep moving forward. I remember that the continuity contract is a contract of between one and three years for family doctors. If that's not stability, because I don't know... And stability, in addition, Mr. Torrado, also happens to what you don't like to remember. But it's only to be able to take the vacant squares that won't let us take them out. If we could get them out, we'd be talking more than 3,000 squares. Well, that would be better stability, right? But, in any case, we'll keep working on it. If I have to say, Mr. Torrado, you have never criticized the measures. That's true, too. You've never criticized the measures we've taken. In some cases we can explain them, but he never criticized them. It's not the same for all members of your party. We have some member of your party who systematically criticizes the measures. And there it is. I suppose you'll transfer it to him. [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Prado, about the data, I really have to insist. Who has to have the data, basically, are the professionals. And the Galician Health Service, the Health Council and the Galician Board put that data in the hands of professionals from minute one. From Vigo's management — and all the managers — we sent the data to everyone who needed it. Maybe they don't, but all the clinical committees that we do, most of them, are followed by a press conference, where we inform the entire citizenry, the whole citizenry, of the reasons that lead us to make decisions. The General Directorate of Public Health informs the child about the epidemiological situation of each municipality where the measures are taken, and even those that are not taken. Because we also warn those municipalities where we're seeing some parameter that escapes from what we'd like. We tell him what the situation is, and besides, not just that, but that we're going to put these people together, talk to the family doctors and work with them. I repeat that they have all the necessary information, but I also say that if it's not enough, of course we're at their disposal to clarify the data they need. I'd miss more! Today we have a meeting of the Clinical Committee, and I repeat that, after the decisions taken by the Committee, of course, there is no problem in explaining them. Regarding the foundation agreement, Mrs Prado, in fact, the other day, during the visit of Minister Illa to Vigo, some of the investigators called for this call. We've talked to them before, and they're talking. It'll be as soon as possible. There is no intention after the years that these researchers have been without any kind of agreement, including other years in which the People's Party has not ruled and no agreement has been made. The will is to make an agreement for foundations and that the labor and pay conditions of these workers are better. That's a firm will. And the only thing that is pending is to set the date to continue with these meetings — which, of course, were even done during the pandemic. I was talking about those 750 contracts of continuity for six-month nursing, and 150 of a year. And you were talking about the Primary Care Plan, which you stayed in a drawer. Well, the reality is that from the actions of the Primary Care Plan, which included, as you will remember, short-term and medium-term actions, 99% of short-term actions are already completed or underway. Primary care addresses were created in each area. At OPE 2019, over 250 family medicine squares, 93 pediatricians, 30 family nursing specialists and 18 pediatrics were convened. The newly created squares have been endowed with commitment. Training courses for family medicine and pediatricians have increased. Telea was implemented in 100 percent of health centres – – which was one of the short-term measures –. The interconsultation between primary and two-way hospital care was used for all professional categories. And the diagnostic and furniture materials of health centres have been rejected — the total amount auctioned for health equipment and general furniture amounted to EUR 8,581,000. Of course, you keep working on the measures that were planned in the medium and later term, which are those more organizational transformations that I committed to implementing in my first intervention. And we'll keep working on that document of the primary care vertebrate plan. To conclude, I wanted to make it clear here that the whole saying isn't going to be words that carry the wind. As you know, the Vigilant Sergas Strategy wins this year; and the elementary-care plan, in the year that's about to begin. Therefore, the Health Council must provide a new rector document. One of the things that taught us the pandemic is that, in the face of the great challenges of health, different issues must work with the same objectives, from public health to health care and research. That's why we propose an integral health strategy that sets health priorities, means of addressing them and health outcomes to assess them. In that strategy for the postcovid scenario, we will integrate the lines outlined here and identify in greater detail the pathologies or health problems on which we will act more intensively. Of course, once this text is drawn up, I'll ask again for my presence in this House to listen carefully to your approach, as I have done today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u96	Thank you, Counselor. We'll stop the session until 16.15.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u97	We resume the session with point 3, motions. G.P. motion. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the information to be transferred by the Government of Greece to the municipalities regarding the incidence of the cover-19, as well as to the Parliament of Galicia, in relation to the staff working in the Contact Monitoring Centre
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u98	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion you have the word Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u99	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. We continue the health debate and we propose a motion today on information. The truth is, it's interesting, because I reflected after the counsellor's appearance -- and I call for reflection -- about what he proposed. It made sense to think only one thing, and I remembered something that the counselor said here today in the morning. I blamed him for not talking about the vaccination plan at any time, and said the advisor that talking about the vaccination plan would be disloyal. I reflected on that and found that at the same time as he said that was Mr. Feijóo on the Road talking about the vaccination plan. So they say we don't share anything! [[Applause]] The Socialist Party shares with the Health Counsellor that Mr. Feijóo is an disloyal man. We hope the honesty of the health counsellor doesn't cause any more trouble. We also share that saying numbers about trackers is imprecise. But we're going to talk about this, and we also have a chance to vote today about whether we want to know how many there are or how many there are. Finally, we put forward a motion on information after this darkness and left but clarifying expression of what loyalty is and its practical example in the parallel debate that the Health Adviser and Mr Feijóo had this morning, and we put forward from the Socialist Group a proposal that has to do with... I say a proposal because tomorrow they also focused on that we did not present proposals. I don't know that we were told of an agenda that was... -I remind you that Thursday, in Commission 5, the PP brought nothing of health, and in this plenary too, to know who brings health proposals - We make a proposal on clarity in information. Why? Well, first of all, because information uncertainty usually causes a lot of problems and causes quite a lot of concern, especially for public managers, who sometimes have difficulties — I thought in this case in the councils — because they have to run, they have to put in place measures normally containment, usually restrictions on mobility in many cases, with their own means, and often do not have anything at all; measures that come dilated by a government -- because somebody complained in the morning that they didn't pass information -- and measures that mayors learned when they were being given by the CRTVG at the appearances of there president. So when the president comes out and counts them for the TVG, the mayors know what they have to do. What we're thinking is that information is possible, it's interesting, and that it's better to share; not necessarily all decisions before they're made, that doesn't make sense, but the criteria depending on what they're going to make. Who decides the criteria? In this case we have technicians, we have committees. We have always said that we support the decisions taken by the Committee and the Government in this regard, but at least we believe that it is important to know the criteria. The criteria are important because we will know that they are taken, and if we are not, we will always be at the expense of interpreting well, of course -- because we must always interpret well all the great goodness of this government -- and that things happen like, by the way, we still don't know why there are councils that, having double or triple contagions per inhabitant, have no limitation and other municipalities on the side, just boundaries, which have half or three times fewer contagions have limitations. And we don't really want to remember that mayors have different political support. I was going to mention Ourense, but as we no longer know what Ourense's PP thinks, then I'm not going to get in there anymore. In any case, we do share that there is a need for criteria and that criteria must be made public. The level of criteria, the range of criteria, which are used and which are not technical decisions, but sharing them is a political decision, and not sharing them is also a political decision. Not sharing, hiding and hiding is also a political decision. Today Mr Feijóo said - that the counsellor ended up calling it indirectly disloyal - that anyone who hides some information is because he doesn't know what information he has. I think it's literal; it can be shaded, but I think it's literal. We also share this with Mr. Feijóo - don't say we don't share things - So we asked ourselves how many trackers there are in Galicia. We also think about it on this initiative. We wondered about an essential question, because if it were a function or a profession, a staff who had nothing to do with the situation in which we live, because at last this would be a little joke, but as a joke, it's no longer funny. What we're thinking is that we need to know what happens with the recruitment, what happens with the functions and what happens with the staff that works to stop the pandemic. Why? So basically because if we don't have trackers, we have a problem; if we have too much, we'll also have a problem of lack of coordination; and if we have one number today, tomorrow another and, finally, the number depends on what someone says on Galician television, we don't have a lot of criteria either. We think it's important to know several things, but first, there's a staff volume hired in the so-called Contact Monitoring Centre. Yes. There's a company hired for that company to define how many, how and under what conditions. We think hiding what's going on means someone has something to hide. Mr. Feijó said so too. And so we're asking, how many people have hired the Galician Board to work at the Bergondo Contact Monitoring Center? We know you hired them at a given company and we know that this company has some links. But we're not asking why, we're asking how many they are. How much? Because the information property does not exist; you cannot decide which information to share and which information to share. That doesn't exist. In a conception of blasphemous power almost, it could be, but we're not in it, or we shouldn't. So we've been thinking about this. We call on this motion, among other things, for a report to be made available to this Parliament and for it to say how many people the Council of Galicia has hired, how many have it, and whether it has a forecast of, if it can vary the volume, depending on that. We also asked about the contracts. How are we paying those staff? What working conditions are you in? They'll have a decent wage, decent working conditions so they can perform their job well, because their work depends on the health of everyone. We lived in a complicated pandemic, although today's councillor talked about other things in appearance, but we lived a complicated situation in health, and we thought about it. We also plan that the information that Joina offers is confusing at will; it is confusing, as we have said, on the question of not sharing the criteria to cause municipalities to exist with different precisions difficult to explain, but it is also true that they share confusing data at will. Today morning we explained the difference between active and positive cases, with the counselor's reproach that we were confusing and we didn't know. As I've explained before, I'm not going to have much impact on that, but it's not the same active case as a positive one. If three people heal and five get infected, it increases in two the number of active cases, but five have been infected. And we can't say it's the same two as five. Well, in the budgets yes, because where you put 2 they show up 7, where you put 14 they're announced 26, but they're not the same two people as five. And so what we're considering is that we can't confuse some cases with others or say that we make decisions based on one criterion and use another, which is what's going on. We also have an idea that we think is interesting, that we are transferred to a lot of researchers, mathematicians, some epidemiologist and biosanitary researchers, which is that the data is open in terms of how they can be used, reused, and that all data from history can be taken advantage of. Journalists also share it and usually say that this could be useful. For what? To do long-term studies, to do comparative studies or to allow analysis of the evolution of the pandemic. Perhaps there may be researchers, people of knowledge, people of the clinical field, or people of the academic field who can provide enough if they have the data. Why doesn't Galicia open your data? Why are data only provided almost analogically and not shared? It's one of the few -- little -- autonomous communities in Spain that do, because there seems to be a sense of ownership about information, and government information has the responsibility to manage it, but it's not her owner. And, therefore, we are in favour of the information being shared. These are the issues that we have raised: open data, sharing or advertising criteria, having differentiated and clarified data information, and having a report on the volume of staff that exists in the Contact Monitoring Centre. These are questions of information. We are sure that there may be discrepancy and that there may even be some new, good, idea that brings something and that can build more on this motion. What we're suggesting is that there's a twisting of information to sell a story; yes, to sell a story, to promote the smartest of the class. But what we're saying is that this information must be shared and it must be public, because if we don't, we'll have to ask ourselves what they hide, it won't be the moment we find out that nothing they're telling us is true, and we think that that can't be. So we think it's much more useful to share information. For now nothing else, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u100	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs. Iria Carreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u101	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. President. Last Tuesday was the anniversary of SARS-CoV-2, a virus that takes more than nine months of difficult coexistence with us, and once again we saw this forum demanding elementary things, which are already beginning to cross the barrier of merely tolerant and which could be acceptable in spring, but which are not now. Last water did not move mills, but we could even value at some point if it was really acceptable in spring to deny information. The people who don't know their history are doomed to repeat it, and we know well about the diseases they've been hiding, the data they haven't given, the gaps in clinical stories, and we know very well that not communicating things clearly ended up creating a great monster full of taboos and rejection during the 1980s, and above all the 1990s. To deny reality and barter the data under a tupid carpet in making that reality disappear; we need concrete and true epidemiological information. At a time when coordination between the different structures is needed so that the whole system can work in the same direction, and for this coordination to exist the information channel must be fully operational. The information must be accessible, not only because it is a right of the population, but because it is also important at the organizational level among the different administrations, particularly in the local administration. We have been insisting on time and time, it is true, and we must continue to insist on the visa: the series of cases must be available, broken down by municipalities, and even taking into account other variables of interest, such as the age line. They can't keep showing up, as they've ever done before, in the totally false idea that it's dangerous to provide information, because what's really dangerous is to keep acting at these heights as if nothing happened. [[Applause]] They refused to give data claiming that the privacy of the infected is at risk, which, in addition to being false, does not cease to be a way of infantilizing the entire population. You need to have as much information as possible, to have it well explained, in a concise and clear way; without feeding the disease, of course, but also without remaining spaces for speculation. Mr. Torrido was now referring to cases of neighbouring municipalities. For example, this is the case with the county of Pino and the municipality of Arzua, which are borderline. Neighbors don't understand why some are affected by a perimeter closure and some are not, when the information they can find on the web is the same for the two municipalities: the number of new cases diagnosed is between 1 and 9 and the cumulative incidence is greater than 50 and less than or equal to 150. It cannot be that the only explanation these neighbours receive is practically equal to a divine mandate or a universal law of nature. [[Applause]] And when we're talking about data, we're not just talking about number of infections, we're also talking about the number of tests carried out in each municipality and the type of test that's done, because it's not the same PCR as a serological test or an antigen test; it's not the same clinical impact, and it's necessary to know why one is done and why the other is done. I mentioned before that the attitude that exists is totally childish and paternalistic, and I say this because what you're doing with this information policy is treating population as children, as breast-feeding children, as children who are unable to understand the situation and who can therefore only take orders and obey. And in contrast to this situation that we have here in our country, there are other places where this information is provided; even if they are able to provide data on how many patients are suspected of city hall, and nothing happens, neither has the crime rate increased, nor are they persecuted among neighbours. I insist again on what I said earlier: the information has to be clear and has to be accessible. It's not worth uploading protocols to a web page and leaving them parked there. It's not worth publishing a protocol at 7:00 a.m. on a Thursday afternoon with the idea that it would start working next week. It's no use for professionals to have seven different protocols with subtle nuances between each of them, adapted each to a very specific population case. It's not worth having protocols that are poorly unified and little harmonic that leave a gap open to personal interpretation, because they're no longer reliable. And, in short, it is of no benefit to publish an ideal protocol that separates itself from the material reality and from the staff of the centres, if that protocol is not accompanied by other measures. It can't be that the tools of consultation with those who have to work our professionals fall, precisely, on the opposite side, by making hard, extensive and unclear documents. The instructions have to be clear, they have to be simple and axile, and they really have to help make decisions; they don't have to be almost baroque-rococodo paintings with a twisted design and it takes a considerable time to decipher, because it really costs reading them. With regard to the Tracking Center and the trackers' issue, I am deeply sorry that there are those who consider this to be an endless stroke, that it does not happen from a little slope and that it cannot see where the motivation of the question comes from. It's essential to know how many trackers they are and what their function is; to know whether these 20, whether those 6,000 or whether these 700 are people hired for this work, or whether you're counting on all primary care workers; to know what kind of information they receive, and to know what means they're counting on, because tracking work is a task that, without having a very great technical specificity, so it takes time and dedication, and in the follow-up you have to know how to guide the doubts that each of the individuals is isolated. On the other hand, today, the Monitoring Center we have is still a semi-demivine figure, an abstract entity that is there somewhere, which is not well known who it is or what it looks like and which we don't know very well what it does. We have concluded that, as the Monitoring Centre, it follows, but at the same time it is to whom we entrust ourselves entirely to control the pandemic. Professionals may address her, but they address themselves as those who pray for prayers that rarely have an answer. There's a mail account, it's true, but professionals don't even know who they're talking to, nor in many cases if they get an answer from the station. It's an entity, in addition, which is very likely to be improved. Contact control should be thorough to prevent the spread of infection and, in the background, what we're seeing isn't like that. There are patients who have not been informed of the outcome of the PCR. There are even PCRs requested from the central station that, as they have the undetermined result -- issues that are not considered in any of the numerous protocols -- no one else cites them to tell them that they have to do another test, and they stay there waiting until some of these patients get bored and ask their head doctor for an appointment. There's follow-up that's not done, that's not done enough. It even happens on many occasions that contacts that are reported after detecting a positive are cited for the first PCR one week or even ten days later since this notification, time that we are not sure whether that contact is positive or not and therefore not knowing if there is more affected and if there is more positive potential or not. The information a government needs to provide must go beyond press notes and pretty statistics. It can't be that they consider information to be an asset to negotiate, simply managing it to their liking and not meeting other criteria. The information has to be known, it has to be accessible, and everything, the whole population, it has to have access to it, and more, if possible, in a time of crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Carreira. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez-Vispo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Torrado, do not tell me, because I would be disappointed, that you will join Mr. Tomé's car, the mayor of Monforte, president of the Lugo Deputy, who says that the restrictive measures taken in the municipalities are based on the colours of the city hall map. It seems to me that you, who have medical knowledge, can't get in the car to desecrate the members of the committee like that... can't you hear me? Yeah? I told you that I think it's a lie that you tell me that these criteria that the Clinical Committee takes on the basis of the colors of the map -- you just say it right now -- that I think it's a lie that you're joining the car to destabilize those magnificent professionals that the Clinical Committee has. You also know that Mr. Feijóo this morning - President Feijóo - was not disloyal to anyone. The only one who criticized was the lack of information and communication about the vaccination plan and the so curious forms this central government has. He regretted these forms because he communicated nothing to the autonomous communities, and so did Mr. Urkullu in the Basque Country. And he also said that politicians don't go out of work, that those who go out of work are primary care staff, family doctors and nurses. Well, by focusing on the subject, on the subject of information, on the subject of lack of transparency, I don't think you're going on an appropriate path either. I think you're wrong. He accused the Union of wanting to hide the data in the seroprevalence report, when they were sent without any problems to this Parliament. It is surprising, indeed, that the lack of transparency on the pandemic from the Socialist Party is criticised! A socialist government that closed the process of requests for information from the Transparency Portal during the state of alarm - Junta has never done so - a socialist government that refused for months to give the data of the providers to whom health material was purchased - in Galicia they were on the website of the coronovirus of the Union at the disposal of the world - and a socialist government that continues to refuse to provide the information it has about the incidence of the safe deposit in the homes of older people throughout Spain, when Galicia publishes its information in detail. Galicia also publishes the evolution data of the pandemic on the website every day. Today's data - I have them here, I have them today ; these are the data published on the web, I have them here - they are: the active cases today, broken down by health areas, the situation of positive patients, the total number of people cured, of deceased, of contagion, the number of people in the ICU, the number of people hospitalized in hospital units, their home, the cases confirmed by PCR in the last 24 hours... they also publish maps of city halls, which you said could be improved. [[Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo Rodríguez shows some documents.]] Well, it's true they've improved. The adviser in the past said that the new number of cases would be included by diagnostic evidence of active infection and its cumulative incidence range. And here he is. It's already published. [[Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo Rodríguez teaches a document.]] And it is also allowed to download open format for all paragraphs. You have it here, that's what you ask at the first point of the motion. You have also criticised that maps of the levels of incidence offered to the municipalities and the population do not accurately predict restrictive measures, because Junta considers other data, something that is true and that continues to happen with these maps. And this was very easy to explain: it's because the board makes decisions by studying many specific factors and circumstances in each case. If we could put in a map the number of contags, for example, and if we were to automatically mark the municipalities where restrictions are to be taken, because the Clinical Committee would no longer be needed for anything; it would be automated, the Clinical Committee would be left behind. In Galicia decisions are not made with rules of three simple ones, taking into account many more factors and considering indicators that are not secret; indicators that the members of this Clinical Committee give us. Sometimes they interview us in the media. On the same Sunday, one of the members of the Clinical Committee spoke of these indicators without any problem, of the incidence accumulated at seven or fourteen days, of the rates of reproduction of the virus, of the rates of people over 65 years old, of the percentage of positive PCRs, of emergency circuits, etc., etc. They're not secret indicators, they're known to the health personnel that work with them. And it seems right to us that in Galicia decisions are made taking into account these indicators that assess territorial heads, preventive medicine services, health care agencies, etc. And judging by how the measures are going -- the counsellor of the Carballin case -- it seems to you that they're not right either. Also, just as we're going to Galicia - which together with Canary Islands we're the autonomous communities that we better go - it seems that the decisions we make are working. You are always the champions of transparency when you are in opposition, and demand to know in detail the information, but when you rule, you do not seem to have the same criterion, at least this is what the president of Reporters Without Borders Pierre Haski says, who points out in the report submitted by this organization the concern about the lack of transparency in Spain about the communication of the pandemic of coward-19, where the number of dead is not exactly known. News from November 19th. In Galicia this figure, unfortunately, is posted every day on the website - let it be zero soon -. But you don't think the German Government is reporting. No, no, no, no. What we read last week in a national newspaper was, "Transparency affects Health its opacity during the pandemic." "The Transparency and Good Government Council, established in 2015, affects health that is making it difficult to protect and guarantee the constitutional right to access public information." News from the country. And I don't want to talk again about the answer to the requirement of the Transparency Council, recognizing that there was no committee of experts. Here are those meetings where the decisions are made. With regard to the report of the Contact Monitoring Centre, I tell you that the center does what it does is to help health personnel in a new and specific task arising from a pandemic that we all expect to be temporary, and therefore, precisely, their staffing varies depending on the needs and how epidemiological indicators are evolving. The centre always works under the supervision of the technicians of the General Directorate of Public Health, who are the reference professionals to train people, who do what they do are tasks - as we often speak - bureaucratic, investigating, calling, tracking or controlling quarantines. What is difficult is to clarify yourself, Mr. Torrado, with the position of the PSdEG. The management of the PSdEG goes on the one hand, the provincial charges go on the other and the people who are in the municipalities on the other. On October 19th, the president of FEMP, the mayor of Vigo, said about Xunta -- and I quote literally -- that no pantomimes are invented that someone asks him for names and surnames. Shortly before, the socialist mayor of Meis—here he has—published a band in which he says textually: "In view of the proliferation of covid-19 contagions in our area of influence and the lack of official communication by the health authorities, those people who are confined or contacted communicate it to the council." That's where I'm leaving. [[Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo Rodríguez shows a document.]] In fact, there is no official communication of personal data, on the part of Sergas there is no communication or there will be any communication, because you know that clinical stories are confidential. It's a fundamental right besides, it's not a matter of information ownership or lack of transparency; it's a subject of responsibility in the use of that information, and you think that's perfectly in agreement with me. But then saying that mayors don't have any information, it's a truce. There's a briefing every week with mayors of the municipalities, with the general secretary of the council and the manager of each health area. Another thing is that some mayor isn't connected to this meeting; that's already a choice for everyone. In addition, in restricted municipalities they receive a daily e-mail with information from their county, daily, by email, with data from their county. The week that Friday, the decision to restrict the mobility of the seven cities of Greece was made, counsellor kept conversations with the mayors of these seven cities. And when the decision was made on Friday, do you know what Mr. Bugallo, who was a member of Parliament, was with us in this Chamber? Well, he said, it's not a decision that surprises us. The same was said by the mayor of Vigo, the mayors of Lugo and the Coruña, citing the data the councillor had given them. And on the same day, do you know what the Secretary General of the PSdEG said? Well, Junta was improvising. It is revealing — isn't it? — that the secretary-general of a party considers an improvisation about what their mayors are not surprised about. So, Mr. Torrado...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u104	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u105	...—end, Mr President—when you talk about lack of fluidity in the information between the Union and the mayors, perhaps you should reflect, because the lack of fluidity of information may have the mayors and the direction of their party. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u106	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Motion author group, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u107	Thank you, President. I want to thank what I interpreted as BNG's support for the initiative, and we share the relevance of the data, and there's something I don't share with the spokesperson of the People's Party. I didn't say — in fact, I think I made it clear — that we wanted to think that the decisions were made by political colour, we didn't want to think about it. You've already attacked me because I'm supposed to say yes. Look, you don't like Greek, I'm going to say it in Latin: not small excuse, manifest accusation. You defend something that I didn't accuse her of, but it's good that she defends herself because then we know it. Look, when someone defends himself, he's got those things and so on. Anyway... I'm the only one I mentioned about Mr. Feijóo's statements today was that you said you didn't say anything. He didn't say anything but there were press notes on his permanent shots to the vaccination plan; please didn't say anything about the vaccination plan. You don't have to be in favor, you don't have to be in favor, you'd miss more! Shall we tell you...? No, no. What we're saying is, while he felt against the vaccination plan, the counselor said here that thinking of the vaccination plan was unfair. That's all we said. I'm saying it because, since they're talking about contradictions, at least... Some data is shared. We never deny it. What we're saying is that we have to differentiate them, we have to give positive data and active case data, and we have to give the criteria. We don't say that if you have to get everyone to participate in what they are. No, no. The criteria that have to be -- and I explained it in the previous intervention, but as they always discuss things that we don't say -- are established, and they must determine who has to do so, but then we have to share them and move them; that is, we're going to make decisions based on these criteria. The criteria are set by technicians, decisions take by politicians, and by municipalities that will have to be executed at least if they are reported. That's what we're thinking. But I don't want you to tell me, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo: no, they're known. Look, the other day there was an interview in a media interview with a member of the clinical committee. If we've been in the pandemic for eight months. But we're gonna trust each other, because they interviewed the other day. What if the newspaper doesn't give you an interview with that professional? Yeah, if you have any more information, you can also get me the advisor's interview, where he was asked for information, and he said, "No, I won't give it to him," and if you have that one, you can give it to him too. So what we're thinking is that, if you have information, you're making it easier for them, because you're sharing information that's on the websites, but we're telling you that, in addition to that, there's information about which decisions are made, which is what councils want. If it's nothing more than that, there's information that is not shared, and the criteria are not shared. And no one suggests that there should be other decisions or that there should be other criteria. What we're saying is that that information that will be taken into account is said, because then -- and we don't say it for bad or for discussing anything, or for doing or even partying -- it happens that there's a lot of people going wrong, that there's a lot of people suffering a lot of business closures, and that people don't understand what's going on in the town hall next door. And then, what we're saying is that, to work better, to be able to make people understand decisions well, we're going to explain on what criteria. And that's what we thought. And the problem we're dealing with is that you have a sense of ownership of information. They feel more beautiful, taller, smarter, smarter, more powerful for having information and not sharing it. And that's not what we share. We don't think it should be this way, and that's what we moved, that's what we moved. If you want, we also share what journalists say about the German Government, when you talk about what a journalist says, that probably no one else knows — and you'll never remember who the journalist said that — and if you say so, and if the Government of Spain does something wrong, it hurts. But do we also want to share what journalists say about the manipulation they suffer with regard to the German Government? CRTVG's, too? You want us to talk about that, too? You mentioned here a Norwegian journalist, Swedish or whatever, but there are journalists here, from Teo, Arzua, Melide, the Coruña, Ribadeo, the Guard, who say this is a manipulative government. You want us to talk about that, too? We can, but it's not about that. And finally, about the staff of the Bergondo station. You said in the last commission, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo — I think it is quite right — that the tracking work, in which many professionals participate, was a task that could not be overburdened to primary doctors, because, when you do so intensively, it takes some time, and they have a work already intense and cannot do it; and therefore you assumed and said that primary doctors cannot do all the tracking work. Well, that's what we've been saying for a long time, and then we ask, to the thread of it: since they can't do everything, what demons are tracking now? How many are there? And if Junta has hired a company with a number of trackers at a plant in Bergondo, a company called Konecta, which has connections to President Feijóo, we want to know how many, how, how much money and how much. And that's what we want to know. And by moving one thing about it, one thing: you might think they're the smartest and they don't share it, but we have the right to that information. Even if Article 9 of this parliament doesn't work, even if the Government doesn't answer questions and this parliament doesn't say anything, we have the right to that information. They can manipulate and feel very smart if they don't share it, but we all know what that is. And if they're hiding something, something's hiding for some reason, and that's what we moved. If you're happy with the information, it's okay. We think we need more, and we're not the only ones.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u108	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Marina Ortega Otero, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the impact of the covid-19 on residential care centres
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u109	There is an amendment that makes the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u110	You have the floor to defend the motion, Mrs. Marina Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u111	Thank you, President. The past full we had the opportunity to speak to the social policy advisor about the situations we are living in Galicia, about residential care centres and the shelter. We have made a number of proposals by our group, in response to what is currently demanding citizenship itself and the specialists themselves in residential care in Galicia. Citizenship is asking that, at a time like this, political representatives arrive at agreements and make a proactive representation with solutions that can improve the life of the Greeks and the Greeks more immediately and, above all, our elders, by carrying out a balance on what we are still immersed in the situation of the oldest residences. And the truth is, with more means, more resources at our disposal, we have an even more worrying situation if it happens to be in the first wave of the pandemic. The context today is totally different from March. There are means of protection and a ability to test that we didn't then, but the fact is that the abrupt and massive contagions in the residential context happen too much. How can it be that more than a hundred positives appear suddenly in a center, for example, in as many as The Eyrie of Eyrie or, for example, more recently, in Mos? For all this, from our group we've been moving a series of proposals to take into consideration at a critical moment, at the most critical moment that our biggest people are living in Galicia, as in this case motivated by the pandemic of the coward. Key aspects and that we should have learned in the first wave of the pandemic, as they are: times of reaction, vitals at this moment. Socio-health coordination; where is it?; we have a new general direction; we want to know exactly what proposals we have on the table with that incorporation of the socio-health management. Emphasis on tracking and primary care; they say that in some autonomous communities it is late; the doubtful is in Galicia if it has arrived, it has not arrived, to what extent; we lack data, as my companion Julio said now. We must remember that the state of alarm does not dissuade the competent administrations in social services, which they are, were and will be the autonomous communities. Labour protection of staff in the care sector at large, which directly affects the well-being of workers. Full board of care. We do not forget that services to our elders, such as the necessary reformulation of the home help service or cuts in the delivery of the family environment, have an impact on the transfer of users to residential centers. The alternative proposed, not only by this parliamentary group but by experts on the subject, is the derivation of all, each and every one of the positives in the vault, to intermediate centers, evacuating them from the residential care center itself as soon as possible. In addition, this measure allows the rest of the residents to live their lives the most normal life, which is very important to maintain not only their physical health but also their mental and cognitive health. It's about a preventive management, that's philosophy: prevention. As for the future of the care of our elders, we must stop sewing up the new residential model as the only option and have a height of look, go beyond that, reformulate the new model of care for our elders in an integral way, in its entirety, not only in the residential sphere, but by betting on resources that allow them to live in the homes as large as they can do so and that they want. And that's why we have to bet on the impulse of day centers, on the impulse of the home aid service, on the impulse of reformulation of the libretto for care in the family environment, on the teleassistation, on active aging as a set of a whole, as measures within an integral care program for our seniors. We have to change the vision that we have of our elders and see that they are people who have so much to give to our society, they are people who must squeeze their performance and their own autonomy, more than ever. But what is urgent right now is to change what doesn't work properly, and in this case it's obvious that protocols or forms of intervention are not having the expected results. The most important thing right now is to get a feedback on all the proposals that try to build a reality that we know is very complex. It's obvious that shielding our residences is complex, that the virus will enter when it lives in the rest of the population, but we must extreme protocols based on prevention, especially prevention. And the most important thing right now is to make a light in those cases where they appear positive and immediately evacuate all — and I say all — the positives that appear at the moment they appear, so that when there are seven positives they don't turn up at the end of a time in cent. Prevention is impossible — I say: impossible — if we do not provide a significant increase in resources and investment. Last week, the workers sector of the residential care centers once again took the streets to manifest themselves and raise their voice warning of the lack of staff in the homes of older people. We need to contextualize the moment we are living in, and we need to point out not only that workers have their work increased qualitatively, but also quantitatively, taking into account the measures, the new measures that impose the context of cowardice, which, as you know, is an unprecedented context and which greatly increases the workload. And with the aggravation it's urgent for our elders to put all the resources on the table, all of them. And the pier of action supports the necessary increase of staff to meet our elders with dignity. The senior centres themselves recognized that they had to move work teams from one residence to another to cover emergencies in the hands of their own workers. And the Galician Union, having the competences in this area, should not consent to this situation, but should promote the recruitment of human resources and make them available in a limited position for many centres deprived of these resources in this sense. We would also like to know whether the Social Policy Council has planned to meet with the residential workers sector, since it is urgent — and we have requested — to clarify once and for all the issues they denounce. And, above all, it is urgent to hear the information they bring, the result of a direct knowledge of the daily treatment they have with our elders. Several national media outlets echoed the demands of workers, which is, in particular, the focus of attention: the residential center of Salvaterra, where workers themselves denounced the alleged deficiencies in a centre that had been intervened by the Board for fifteen days ago, and it is urgent that since the administration it should clear itself as early as in this parliament, to account for citizenship and, above all, transparent and calm information to the public at a time and in such a delicate context as we live. It must be borne in mind that since the Council for Social Policy has been assured in this parliament on several occasions that all senior residences were under the strict guardianship of the Council of Galicia, so it is urgent that the Council provide key input on what kind of guardianship is based on to clarify what it is failing when massive contamination continues in senior residences, counting for hundreds of cases in many cases. We will not tire of proposing to develop an immediate evacuation plan that will allow all residents who are positive on coronovirus immediately, knowing this result, to leave the residential care center immediately. There are intermediate centres for this reason. Strengthen the inspection team dependent on the Social Policy Council for the supervision of residential care centres for adults. significantly increase the number of inspectors. To prepare and provide Parliament with a memory from the board of directors containing the number of inspections, at least the last two years ago, and the result and motivation of the type of sanction, if that is the case. To inform the Galician Parliament of the parameters that define the system in which the council protects these residential care centres in Galicia. Contributing or incorporating daily, together with data that are usually exposed, data and percentage of allocation in residential care centres, on the one hand, and, separately, data from other centres, also separated by the counsellor, dependent on the Social Policy Council; that is, the number of higher residential care centres separately, for example those of persons with disabilities, which usually when they tend to talk about data, all come together so that it seems like the contagions are smaller. The number of coronovirus infections in the rest of the centres that are also dependent on the Social Policy Council. It is the biggest aggravation of the theme of the covid in the homes of older people in Galicia. In the management of residences every day it counts, so we can't wait any longer. We asked the Galician Council to act right away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u112	Thank you, Mrs Ortega. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u113	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Go ahead, from our group we will support the proposal presented by the Socialist Party today. We also included an amendment to request once again the intervention by the Galician Board of all private residences, because it is clear that something is not working when they continue to add up not on time cases, but massive contagions that reach the practicality of all of the users in some of these centers. By citing only the two most recent examples, Doralresidencies, that macrocomplexion for both older people and people with disabilities in the municipality of Mos, which has reached the last parts that gave the Health Council more than one hundred and thirty people, 139 in total, users; it is the biggest grunt that has been detected in our country since the health emergency and pandemic situation was decreed since March. And also more recently Vilalba's asylum, with 117 users, some of them moved to that middle or integrated center of Cegadi. In total in our country, according to the latter part, there are 492 residents and more than 200 workers in these centres who are active, positive cases. We also want to take advantage of BNG to transfer all our support and encouragement, but we need to make a deeper reflection of the situation. I would remind you, by preparing precisely this intervention, of the words of one of the people who recently appeared in the Reactivation Commission of this Parliament, the head of the residences involved in the health area of Coruña and Cee, which indicated that it was indeed legal and perfectly possible to intervene in these private residences with varying degrees of intensity according to the needs of the centres. We believe that the guardianship to be exercised by the Council of Galicia is this, that is to enter and know first hand what the situation is in all residences, evaluate it, analyse it and take the measures necessary in each of these centres to ensure both the care and the optimal health care conditions of the people who reside in them. Because it is the responsibility of the Galician Board, irrespective of the centre, ownership or residence management model, to ensure that the assistance and prevention conditions of cover-19 are met. Again and again, every time we're going to meet new cases like this one in Vilalba, like the one in Mos, like the one in the Aguiar Perero or, at the moment, the one in the Incio or the one in the King's Hill, what we hear to tell the Government of the board of Galicia is that you don't know what happened, that they're going to analyze it, that they're going to study it. And we can't go to the virus trailer. We say it many times and always starting from the basis that residences are not a bunker—then we agree—but the Government has the responsibility to go, as far as possible, before the vault itself, must anticipate. It's not worth a situation like this to fall into resignation, "it's what there is," or much less to find excuses for trying to justify such dramatic situations, or in the prevention of cowardice, as it relates to the prevention of cowardice, nor to the conditions under which users find themselves in residences. In the complaint we knew just a few weeks ago, made public precisely by workers and workers who Sergas and the Health Council took, moved to the residence of the municipality of Salvaterra, in that complaint what is reported in it is absolutely inadmissible, it is inadmissible. And we really expect from the BNG that the Social Policy Council is acting with all rigour and, above all, with the greatest agility to clarify what happened in that private center. But it also raises this situation and similar questions to BNG: how can something like this happen in our country without the government knowing it, without the health authorities and the Social Policy Council knowing it? Because — I insist — the law obliges Junta to inspect the centres in which social services are provided, regardless of whether they are public centres, private centres or, as this is the case, whether the Government itself has concerted squares, 70, nothing more and nothing less, of 108 higher persons who have the capacity to reside in Salvaterra; we speak of a degree of concertation of 65% of the public squares. The question we ask ourselves is, how is it possible for users to find themselves in that state and the facilities in the conditions as it collects that complaint without the Galician board knowing anything? What did the workers report? Lack of organization, lack of hygiene, non-compliance with protocols, lack of material and essential products for the attention of users, excessive workload by the resourceful personal ratio, etc. Honestly, if massive contagion could not be produced, for example, in this residence, would the Galician Union have done anything? And if complaints are not made public, we are very much afraid from the BNG that the Government's response would have been far less powerful. And it rains on wet, ladies and gentlemen, because we have here the complaint transferred by a worker to the Inspectorate in 2017 -- that is, three years ago -- a complaint that ended up saying, "Please investigate. It's a matter of humanity." A complaint made anonymously—the worker said—in addition, for fear of reprisals, and in which she collected: they are not treated properly. Many of them even smell. They are not given food in a proper way, as the workload is so much and the staff so little that it does not take time to do so professionally. There's an increase in falls. Please check their records and the nursing book. It was not the only complaint made that year before the Social Policy Inspectorate and the Labour Inspectorate precisely on that center of Salvaterra. The IGC also denounced this situation at a meeting with Labour Inspectorate and representatives of the Galician Joint Social Services Inspectorate. Again, excessive workload, lack of staff and deficiencies that cause attention to users. The fear of reprisals, which also denounced the worker in her complaint, in her complaint, was not even an exaggeration. On account of the complaint made publicly by the IGC, six workers affiliated to this union center were dismissed, precisely for that reason, for reporting, and today there are judgments in addition to the Social Court that confirm it. What did they report? That every assistant should have wiped eleven people in one morning within no more than fifteen minutes per resident: wake up, shave, dress up. That a single cleaning woman assumed on her turn fifty-six beds daily and thirty-two rooms in less than seven hours. They only had a cook, without help, to make meals, to prepare the dining room, to serve, to collect, to wash and to clean. That there were workers entering their days an hour and a half before their turn to be able to get the job forward in the best conditions for users. And what is not to be received is that the attention of older dependents in our country — or in any other — is based on the exploitation of work and the violation of the fundamental rights of workers. Every and every one of them gives the best of themselves — we don't have the slightest doubt — every day, but we can't maintain a fundamental right and a public service, a right — I insist — as is old age about precariousness and violation of labour rights; that's unacceptable. [[Applause]] It is clear that the Social Policy Inspectorate is not working, and we do not want to question or doubt the professionalism of the Inspectorate's staff, but of course something is not right. And we come back in addition to what the Board of Auditors said in 2018 precisely with regard to the work of the Inspection and the pressure of the Inspection on these centers — I insist — regardless of their ownership or management model. It was said by the Board of Auditors: some — and I quote literally — of the incidences are collected in the actions of the Inspection repeatedly. In the inspection records, it is warned that within one month actions must be carried out necessary to amend the violations found, believing in documentably their correction. Furthermore, the Inspectorate warns in the minutes that the facts found may constitute offences and penalties. However, it was appreciated that, despite the fact that the centres did not correct the irregularities observed, the Inspectorate did not propose the initiation of sanctioning files. We would add: Junta did not act in the face of repeated complaints of residences such as Salvaterra's, DomusVi Road Door or Ribadumia's DomusVi, just to cite the examples of those that we have physical document of the complaint with the stamp of the Galician Board and the registration in the inspection services of the Social Policy Council. What is missing in the Inspectorate is personal enough to care for all the centers in the country? Well, refuel your equipment. That is the lesson or reflection that we have to learn from everything we have experienced in this country in recent months. I'm just finished with a reflection beyond the specific case, from the conjunctural moment in which we find ourselves. We're in the second wave of the vault. We are already trying to start the phase of flexibilization of perimeter closures and restrictions imposed in recent weeks and months. We have to do it right, without hurrying and taking measures that prevent us from being in a month or two again the same or worse than fifteen days ago. Because every time the virus gets in and out of control in a residence, which is what we're talking about today, the consequences, gentlemen, have names and names. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos Couñago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u115	Good afternoon, gentlemen. Thank you very much, Mr. President. I want to start by saying that, at the same time that we are holding this debate in the Chamber, 98% of the residents of Greece are free from cowardice-19. I'm saying this because I think it's news that we'll all like to know and because it seems reasonable that, if you give the Government the existence of contagions, of larger or smaller numbers, in sixty-five residences, they also recognize that the measures implemented by this same government keep the virus away from more than four hundred eight residential centers that do not have a single infection today and that make up 87% of all centres in Galicia. [[Applause]] I, unlike you, don't think this is an exclusive merit of the Government, nor its responsibility. I think it's the fruit of a lot of people's joint work. Of course, the Social Policy Council, the Health Council, the staff dependent on both the boards, the directors of the centres of these residences; of course, their employees; the families, who are making important resignations to protect their elders; and of course, the seniors themselves, who I think are giving in very difficult moments a true lesson of responsibility, I sincerely believe it. [[Applause]] And I think they all face a virus that we know a lot more than we knew a few months ago but we still don't know a lot of things. There were some sudden contagions here. True, it's one of the doubts that arises: why does this virus affect people who have similar characteristics? Why? We don't know him. What are your ways of contagion? We still don't know him to a good extent until today. Look, October 1, Dr. Simón: So far we have no solid evidence that there has been aerosol-proof transmission in normal social media. Ministry of Science and Innovation, a month later: A Spanish scientific report has concluded that there is significant evidence on the transmission of the SARS-CoV-2 virus by aerosols. This -- you don't understand me as a critic -- is the realization of a reality, that we still have much to know about this virus. A few weeks ago Asturias was an example worldwide for the World Health Organization. You have a very complicated situation today. Why? For a bad performance? I don't think so. Just because we're living times and very difficult circumstances. We are living in a situation of uncertainty, in which the German Government and the parliamentary group that supports it intends to continue to travel the path that seems safer to us. And what is it? The one who signals scientific evidence. We follow the indications of the scientific bodies, the World Health Organization, the CSIC, the universities, a long et cetera. And we apply that science, that knowledge that comes to us according to the technical criteria, of qualified technicians and of recognized prestige. In the case of Galicia, on a scientific committee at the Galician board whose composition is public, whose members are known, and some of them, by the way, have appeared in this same chamber. In contrast, today you are moving us into a series of proposals whose scientific basis is absolutely unknown. Mrs Ortega, I ask: Who advises you to propose these measures? Is that the scientific committee of the Government of Spain, which remains hidden for the rest of the Spaniards? We don't know. But there's one question that I ask myself: if you really know the formula to avoid contagions and deaths in residences, why don't you move it to the self-governments of which your party is? And I ask myself another question: if they did so, why do they present worse data on infection and mortality than Galicia? It's a question I think it would be worth answering. Let's look at some of the measures you propose. They propose the evacuation of all positive residences. And they do — I have to say — contrary to the criteria established by the technicians in Galicia. That's right. The experts claim that this decision must be taken by evaluating each case and every circumstance individually. So Dr. Lamelo told him, indeed, that he appeared in the Reactivation Commission, which told him that this measure was the easy solution, just like putting them in a room and throwing the key away. By the way, Mrs. Rodil, it is true that Mr. Lamelo said it was legal to intervene the residences. He also said that it seemed to him that the work that was being done in the residences by his staff and his management was magnificent and that therefore there was no need to take such action. Because I believe that, if we have come to inform the House and the whole of the citizens, we must do so as a whole, transferring the true and certain information from the whole of the opinion of the experts who are going through here. Mrs Ortega draws from the context of a text from the CSIC — which I have here, Mrs Ortega — that one can do better, indeed. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago shows a document.]] I have to tell you that, actually, this is a summary; the document is this, the document is this, complete. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago shows another document.]] And I recommend your reading, because, if you make your reading complete, equally rectified, in part, the statements you made here today. Look, that report actually talks about the intermediate centres, the integrated residences, those we say that they were set up in Galicia as a pioneer. By the way, in the report, despite its extension, it is not said that Galicia, in fact, was a pioneer in the creation of these residences. But the report assesses the procedure of three autonomous communities in particular, which set the example. They are three communities — by the way, the three, by chance, governed by teams, by socialist governments — that are Aragon's, that of Castela-A Mancha and that of Asturias. I have here the ratio of deaths of homeless people on the total residential squares. We speak of these three communities: Aragon, 6.31 % of residents; Castile-A Mancha, 5.94 % of total residents; Asturias, 3.89 % of total residents. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago shows a document.]] Galicia, 2.46%, below the ratio of the three communities that are set as examples by the Government of Spain and the CSIC. I think this should lead them to reflection. It's my humble opinion. You question the Inspection at the time of history when they're more controlled than ever the residences, because of the circumstances we're living in. It's true, because they're controlled not only by the Social Policy Inspectorate, but also by health inspections and by the public scrutiny itself. I told Mrs. Rodil that she did not doubt the professionalism of the inspectors. I appreciate it, but you know as well as I do that that's what you're questioning, not for yourself. But you know that some of the complainants about the situation of residences are precisely what they question is the professionalism and, even more importantly, the ethics of these public officials, because we are talking about public officials, public workers. And I think it's nice for you to stand up for the public workers, but you'll have to defend them all or, at least, be careful about everyone. Because, of course, you say you deserve a lot of respect for the Salvaterra workers who reported the situation in the residence. I respect them, I respect them, too. But I suppose the Salvaterra workers who have come out to deny this situation and say they obey a blatant manipulation of the reality of residence will also deserve respect. I don't deserve the same. And that advises prudence? Prudence advises us to wait for the outcome of the inspector's records that are open and that we know for the moment what the reality in that residence is. There has to be some balance in criticism. This morning we live a paradigmatic example of what is really becoming the positions of some party. They were critical, they were talking about the file that was opened to Dr. Castrillo, a professional who said here to the advisor who deserves his full consideration. Dr. Castrillo is the subject of a complaint for harassment, a complaint by a doctor of the Public Health Service in Galicia. If that had happened a few months ago, they'd be telling you about Sister, I do believe you. But today... No, no, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I just have to be serious. [[Murmurs.]] It's just that today what we hear here is Castrillo isn't playing. I'm treating you illustrious, that's the complaint. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Or do we then question the complaint made by a woman who feels harassed by a professional who has the same category? So neither one thing nor the other: prudence, and let's wait for the file to be solved to know the reality of what happened between these two professionals. Finally, they question the transparency of a government that has provided information on time, while they are silent about the total absence of data from the Government of Spain; a government of Spain that hides comparative data from contagions and deaths in residences by autonomous communities, which have been provided to it; hides comparative data between public and private residences, so that we know the reality of certain claims; hides the breakdown between those who have a spirit of profit and those who do not have it, which would also be an interesting component to know; and which even hides the actual number of deaths in Spain. We knew yesterday that the National Audience obliged the Government to report on Mr Sánchez's private trips to Falcon. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago reads a document.]] Because even going to a brother-in-law's wedding turned Spain into a state secret. It seems to me that with these background few lessons of transparency can come to this camera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u116	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u117	I ask you, ladies, it's a measure. What I ask them is that if they want information, they read; if they want to know what the guardianship of the board is, it's explained in the public documents that are hanging on the board page, it's only necessary to read. And what I pray for — and this, if I pray you very earnestly, is the least responsibility. And what I beg of you is that if they don't get out of the car, at least they don't put sticks on the wheels. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u118	Thank you, Mr. Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u119	For the motion's own group, Mrs. Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u120	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Paz, I am more surprised every day at your attitude. What you said now as to Dr. Castrillo I think it's one of the biggest demagogues I've heard here, in this House, in my time; I don't know the rest. But it's totally out of context. Besides, I don't know if you have access to more information than the rest of us here, but if you do, we'd be grateful if you explained it. Another thing: they stop giving the data sets of older residences along with those of the disability centers, okay? They're talking about 98% virus-free, but it's gathering data from the disability care centers -- they're not from the residential care centers. They bring the data in a sincere way to citizenship, get them to work, accept criticism, and seriously talk about a matter as important as it is from the centres of care to the elders. They get to work, accept criticism and offer honest information to the citizen. Look, the spokesperson for the Nationalist Block was commenting on a case. There was a press release, in this case of El País, which was very complete and provided a lot of information on the case of Salvaterra's residence. It was a complaint about the functioning of the Major Residence of Mine Rescue registered in 2017 at the Council of Social Policy for Workers, and with a desperate plea: "Please investigate; it is a question of humanity. The complainant, a worker who pointed out that she did not sign the writing out of fear of reprisals. He ensured that he did not comply with the staff ratio, and described the treatment to residents." [[Pontevedra]] They said, "Please check the records and the nursing book." Three years later they repeat themselves in the same context similar complaints, and then now the company and Together deny weaknesses. But by that time -- in 2017 -- do you know who was the CEO of Majors? Who? Do you know that, Mr. Pazos? The current advisor to Social Policy. We understand that she must therefore have detailed information on this case. That is why in this House we believe that we, as citizens' representatives, have the right to know more about this in a situation which is so worrying about citizenship in Galicia. Please, I respect the information. They don't gather data from residential centers with data from centres for people with disabilities, because people with disabilities themselves are saying that it's not fair, because it's not the same context and they don't want to get it all together in the same bag. They're different things. Indeed, this center of Salvaterra has 70 concerted squares for the Cunta de Galicia. So, we understand that this rigorous guardianship exercised by the Galician Union even more, if it does, should take place in the center of Salvaterra, for example, that it has 70 concerted squares of 108. Where do we consider the issue to be missing? Yes, indeed, in the inspection, because of lack of resources; as well as in the residents workers. And you say you're doing a lot of inspections. Many inspections would be made, but almost ten years ago they were even more done, and so said the Board of Auditors. So, please take a look again at the report of the Board of Auditors and look at the numbers, because the figures are clear: even over 400 in a year, when we were now talking about not reaching 300 two weeks ago. So I was talking about who advises us. Yeah, look, the professionals. That's public information you should know. The very architect of the first integrated residence that they both announced since the Council of Galicia, Mr. Miguel Ángel Vázquez — who is the president of the Spanish Society of Jericho and Xerontology in Galicia — points out according to public statements: "The rules of administration are no longer met." It maintains, however, that the quality of the contests is not won but the lowest cost. And in the case of private business concerts with the Galician board, it is understood that, providing 53 euros per person per day, offering the necessary services and paying decent wages would not be profitable. Buy it with a three-star hotel, where you can charge 45 euros on average just to sleep. This is part of the management of the Galician Union and, in our way of seeing things, Mr. Pazos, we believe that you have to do self-criticism and leave the war; assume the proposals that by the opposition groups we are launching, welcoming them and getting to work because one day it counts. So I've already said in the first intervention and I repeat that it can't be that the line of action is not to recognize the mistakes and put a face of apparent tranquility when the thing crumbles. And it can't be that, on the one hand, public intervention is based on praise from the workers in the sector and that they don't then receive them to listen to their demands. There can't be any massive contagions either. They're changing the course of action. I repeat, every day counts, and our elders are at stake. Take action immediately, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u121	Thank you, Mrs Ortega. Do you accept the Block Amendment? Do you accept it? Thank you. [[Assentment.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Daniel Pérez López, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demands to be made by the central government in relation to the impact of the curfew-19 on self-employed
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u122	No amendments were tabled. To defend this motion, Mrs González Iglesias has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u123	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. On March 14, the state of alarm is declared in the Spanish State. Today we're on November 24th. Over eight months have passed; exactly eight months and ten days. And what did the Galician Union do to help the autonomous people and the pemmes of our country so far? Well, much less. In contrast, on 17 March — three days after the alarm status was declared — the Catalonian Generalitat announced direct support for self-employed people up to 2,000 euros, with an budget of 7.5 million euros. On 26 March, the Government of Cantabria publishes aid of between 150 and 300 euros per week for self-employed and microenterprises, with an budget of 9 million euros. And so, between March and April: Basque Country, 3 million euros; Valencian Community, 57.5 million euros; Castile and León, 34 million euros; Andalusia, 40 million euros; Asturias, 4 million euros; Madrid, 38 million euros... And it could follow, because these were only some of the urgent measures that other self-governments put in place in the first 45 days of the pandemic to ensure the survival of the autonomous people and the pemes and more of the jobs they depend on. But they didn't stop there. At this time — on November 24 — the Basque Country has already drawn direct aid for self-employed people, pemes, hospitality, cultural sector, commerce, tourism, fishing, social employment, etc. for a count that exceeds 100 million euros. In Catalonia, direct aid to these groups exceeds EUR 150 million. And these are just two examples; many of the autonomous communities have been supporting their productive sectors since the beginning of the pandemic. And finally, the German Government — eight months late — calls for direct help for the autonomous people of this country. But they go late and up are insufficient. They're insufficient because the 10,700 applications that were made in the first thirty hours of opening the deadline are just the tip of the iceberg of the number of people and businesses that need these aids. And the accounts don't give because, according to the data given by the Galician Board itself, 30 million euros — which is the budget for these aids for 30,000 autonomouss — gives me that it's up to every one thousand euros. And that's only half of the 2,000 euros of the maximum aid they promise those aids. But look, I have a doubt: what about the 70,000 autonomous people who don't contemplate in their calculation Mr. Feijóo? Because in Galicia they travel on the special labour system of self-employed people over 200,000 men and women. You don't have the right to help if you need them? These aids are also insufficient, because they don't accommodate all the people who need them to survive because those who have not recognized the cessation of activity are excluded, so you have to have a reduction in the billing of at least 75%. And tell me, how can there be a business with a 25 percent billing for eight months? I'll tell you, it can't, it's impossible. That's why we have a lot of autonomous and autonomous people who can't access these aids, even if they need them, because they don't get to that 75% reduction in billing. He went on to help the seamstresses whom the Galician Board called in August, from which most of the workers were left out when they couldn't meet this requirement. Well, you know what? In the help given to the autonomous people that the German Government has just called, this collective is back out for the same reason. Like the seamstresses, many other self-sufficient and self-sufficient people are in the same situation. They are also left out of sector aids such as hotel providers and distributors, hairdressers and aesthetic sites, music schools, artisans, regulated education, people who have been down by IT or assimilated — such as those who have been infected with curfew — who have reached the ordinary retirement age, the people who have started their business in 2019... and I'm sure there is some sector, collective or situation that I don't mention. Last week the German Government announced help for the hotel. We really hope that the speed you announced will be real and that the conditions for accessing them will be the right way to address the situation in which the sector is located, because the affected people are demanding measures that do not correspond to those announced by the Galician Union. They claim that, when granting grants, the aid called for by other autonomous communities such as Asturias or the Basque Country, in which a fair distribution criterion is used, takes account of the number of workers, or that different restrictions are taken into account according to the localities. In parallel with direct aid, it is necessary to take measures, from the Government of Greece and from the Government of the State, which guarantee business survival. It is necessary for the Union to negotiate with the banking institutions the payment of the claims requested by the sector. The economic situation of self-employed people and pemmes is very delicate, and this will be an oxygen balloon that would allow them to cushion the impact of the cage on their economy. Banking entities were helped and rescued in the 2008 crisis. Now the citizenry needs your help and they have to match, according to what is expected of them. From the administrations you have to demand that they meet the circumstances and reach their shoulders. From the German Government, promotion and stimulus actions must be put in place to reactivate consumption, especially in cities, as they are most affected by the restrictions deriving from the cowardice. These measures need to be addressed to the most disadvantaged sectors, particularly in the hospitality and tourism sectors, even if not just those sectors. The budgets of the Board for next year have to collect a specific match for the launch of an integral rescue plan for self-employed people who are endowed with an initial enlargement of 200 million euros. A group of more than 200,000 people in Galicia, which accounts for more than 20% of the country's employment, is vital to our economy, so we have to work to ensure their survival and give them the future and stability. It is necessary for this rescue plan to leave the dialogue with the collective and the sectors concerned. At the same time, the Government of the State must be urged to take measures complementing the Galicians, such as expediting IRPF and VAT payments from the fourth quarter of 2020 to twelve months or extending the deadline for fractional corporate tax payments. In the Basque Country autonomouss are exempt from the fractional payment of the third quarter of the 2020 IRPF. These are the advantages of having an own tax system -- something we've been claiming since BNG for a long time for our country. But since we can't make those decisions because we don't have our own tax system, we have to ask the Government of the State to do so, to lower the tax pressure on self-employed people and pemmes to avoid the destruction of jobs. The State must establish special penalties for the payment of corporate allowances for social security corresponding to the time of closure and drastic reduction of the activity for those self-employed who are seriously affected by the measures taken under the health restrictions. It must promote the actions necessary to extend the period of depreciation and the lack of ICO loans for one year. As I said earlier when I was talking about bank loans, this meant an important oxygen balloon and would ease the economic pressure of business. And finally, the Government of the State has to apply a reduced VAT of 4% for the hospitality and tourism sector. Although this measure has already been rejected in Congress, from the BNG we believe it is necessary to insist that the VAT in these sectors be reduced in order to encourage hospitality and tourism. Many of Galician self-sufficient and self-sufficient people have already been on their way. The Greek Government has to activate all necessary measures...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u124	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u125	...to stop this indentation and guarantee the collective's jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u126	Thank you very much, Mrs. González. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the stage]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr. Francisco Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u127	President. Good afternoon to all Members and Members. In fact, in the last plenary session, an interpeleration of the BNG was debated with regard to the autonomouss who set foot on this motion. An interpellation and a motion with which we from the PSdeG have partly coincided; substantially, at the bottom of the matter, in an important way. I believe that all political groups are aware of the dramatic situation in which the Greek economy, the state, the Europeans and the world economy are experiencing today as a result of the pandemic. A situation that, in the specific case of Galicia, leads to the fact that we now have 60 municipalities confined. And in addition to the problems that the pandemic creates in itself, with additional consequences for these 60 municipalities, such as the activity of the absolutely closed lodge. It is an absolutely profound crisis, from which we still have no exit point, and we still do not know certain issues of how the pandemic will move forward and, therefore, what is the exit situation for the economic crisis, but basically reflects that there is a fundamental crisis of demand — a crisis of supply, but basically of demand — which affects therefore the available income of families, which affects consumption and which, consequently, affects economic activity, businesses, and especially, in this case, the self-employed sector and the peseta sector. The data in Galicia is bad, as in the state set. The average is perhaps a little better in Spain than the fall in GDP, estimated for this year — as reflected in the Joint Budget Project — in 9.7. It's probably a smaller fall than the state average. But that lower fall has basically to do with less weight than in the Greek economy — obviously — has tourism. Consequently, the fall in GDP is indeed reflected in the economic sectors in the country. Today, 12,800 businesses — approximately 40,000 people living in the hostel — have their activity closed, they're not receiving any income. And, of course, although no one here has magic recipes and no one can establish definitive axioms of how these issues are solved, the reality is that there is a criterion that is shared. In addition, in the Reactivation Commission this is shown by all the experts who came there and are coming. This shared approach is that, in this context, the action of public authorities — mass action, precise action — becomes absolutely essential. The action of public institutions is therefore absolutely essential. The functioning of all public spending capacity of the Public Administration, of all public indebtedness capacity of the Public Administration, is absolutely essential. And in this sense, it's how you have to react to the Galician Union in the face of a situation like the one we're living in. In fact, Mrs BNG referred to some autonomous communities that had already taken shock measures at the beginning of the pandemic in the face of the negative economic situation affecting self-employed people and peeds in those autonomous communities. They reacted to the set of institutions, more or less immediately; they reacted immediately; they reacted to the European institutions, and put existing mechanisms into operation at that time, such as the Mede, and rescue mechanisms at the disposal of states; they enabled new mechanisms created in the framework of European institutions, more or less immediately; they reacted to the European institutions, and put into operation existing mechanisms at that time, such as the Mede, and rescue mechanisms at the disposal of states; they enabled ex-new mechanisms created within the European institutions; they simplified the budget budget; they made the budget stability pact flexible; they optimized the budget stability pact; they optimized the budget; they put into operation; they instrumentalized European multi-million-million-million-million-based funds; they instrumentalised European funds; they instrumented European multi-billion-ion-ion-ion-ion European funds — next-million-ion fund (Next Generation Fund next Generation Fund – Next Generation Fund – Next Generation – next year – next month – next month – next month – and the next million European Union-EU funds — next year – and EUR million funds – and EUR million funds – which will also instrument – which will have been instrument, of EUR million – the EUR million – the EUR million – and EUR million – the EUR million – which will instrument, of EUR million — next EUR million — next will will be managed, of EUR funds will be managed, of EUR million — next EUR million – the will – next EUR will – the will – the will – the will manage management of the will manage of the will – next Euros will – next EUR will – next will – next will – next Euro to manage of the 12 million – next Euros will – next Euros will – the 12 Euros will – the 12 Euros will – the will – the 12 billion of the 12 billion of the 12 billion, the 12 billion, the 12 billion, the 12 billion, the 12 billion of the 12 billion of the 12 billion of the 12 billion of the 12 billion of the 12 billion of the 12 billion of the 12 billion of the 12 billion of the 12 billion of the 12 billion of the 12 billion of the 12 billion of the 12 billion of the 12 billion of the 12 billion of the 12 billion of the 12 billion of the 12 billion of the 12 billion of the 12 billion of the 12 billion of the 12 billion of the 12 billion of the 12 billion of the 12 billion of the 12 billion Logically, here the question we ask is, what is the role of Igape playing in this economic crisis? What is the relevance of Igape to financing and maintaining economic activity in Galicia? Maybe Igape's data is not comparable to ICO's, it's obvious. We don't want to make this kind of approach, but it's obvious that the Igape has to be reoriented, no doubt, in order to achieve a purpose of maintaining and financing Galicia's economic activity, especially at a dramatic moment like what we are living through. And they have reacted and are reacting equally, as Mrs BNG has said, the autonomous communities immediately, at this moment, with a second wave of aid. They also reacted by modifying their own budget, using the remaining ones, having no competence in the financing of economic activity and using the money of their budget to help the autonomouss of their localities and pemes; even providing direct assistance. And I speak of all the municipalities, from the largest to the smallest; and I don't care the ideology of what governs those municipalities. I speak of a socialist council, I can speak of the Coruña, and I can speak of a smaller council, of Oímbra, at the foot of my locality, governed by the People's Party, which was able to launch aid, funding or grants to finance the quotas of social security for all the autonomouss of that council. And then there's the reaction of Joine. We didn't say he didn't do anything at all. The Council of Galicia did what it did was take measures in an ineffective way, in a slow manner, and which, of course, do not have the depth that is desirable in a situation like this. The Galician Union received state administration funds against the pandemic; it received hundreds of millions of euros and will also receive, in the 2021 budget, approximately 685 million euros. You have noticed or will perceive — and you will also consider the budget — aids coming from the European funds. We use this, we use this additional fund of EUR 1,500 million — this expenditure supplement that allows the ceiling to be spent and which is also envisaged in the budget — to give viability and exit to the Greek economy, in this case to those who need it most: self-employed and pemes. The Galician Board announced plans, announced... at last, it did quite an ad—to my judgment quite propaganda—and sometimes introducing quite confusion. Mr. Feijóo recently announced a 70 million euro plan for self-employed people. In fact, a 30 million grant or support line has just been approved, of which 2 million are devoted to activities that have been completely closed or that have been completely closed in recent times. Obviously, we understand that the aid is absolutely insufficient and that it needs to be extended. Then a specific plan for the hotel was announced. Anyway, I was reading in a chat that I have around here -- published in a media outlet -- an answer from Mr Feijóo to a hostess who asked him how much the house aid would be, and he was talking about 100 million euros, when he last week had announced a plan of 17 million euros. I applaud that Mr Feijóo, in view of what he publishes today as a media release, puts 100 million euros on the table to attend the inn. And, of course, if it is, we're going to support it and, if not, we're going to sue it. In relation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u128	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u129	Yes, I'm done. I'm going to stand around the BNG initiative. With regard to your initiative, of course, we essentially share your point 1. As far as point 2 is concerned, we have some doubts, especially about a question that you are raising here with regard to ICO credits. ICO's credits are already welcome, you can depreciate from three to eight years...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u130	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u131	...and, therefore, it doesn't make much sense that this kind of question arises. And with regard to fractions, they are covered by tax regulations; up to the debt of EUR 30,000 can be raised...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u132	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u133	...absolutely fractionations without any doubt.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u134	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u135	With regard to tourist VE, you will understand that without any impact, without measures.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Francisco. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u137	...that you contemplate here as compensation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. Francisco. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Tellado Filgueira has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u139	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, my support for all the self-employed in Galicia, and especially the professionals of such an important sector as hospitality, who are suffering in a special way, in the first person, the restrictions imposed by the health authorities to fight against the pandemic. A sacrifice — you have to say it and you must recognize it — that is allowing you to save lives and fight this invisible enemy that has conditioned the lives of all for quite a few months. Mr Rivera, we must not inform ourselves in groups of WhatsApp, especially if they are from the party; we must inform ourselves in the Official Journal of Galicia. Because when a talk of groups from WhatsApp and not what is published — the calls published in official newspapers — ultimately contributes to the disinformation of society. If you want to disinform, in good time; you're a real professional. Go to the DOG and consult the orders and calls for support for the self-employed. Look, we're one of the autonomous communities with more help from all over Spain. That's the reality. As we've been used to, they're late. Interestingly, after the last full accused the Galician Chair of slowness in the response to the pandemic, they now present this list of demands that are already widely covered, overpassed, by the rescue plan prepared by the German Government. The Galician Union has just expanded its aid to self-employed and hostage, reaching about 100 million euros, which will benefit some 50,000 professionals. These are orders and summons published in the DOG, Mr. Rivera. It is the largest aid package for a sector in the history of our community, one of the largest investments in the hospitality industry in Spain -- from all over Spain, that's the reality -- thus proving that the situation is very complex — of course, very difficult — especially for those who suffer it in the first person and who should not be used politically as a daring weapon to make opposition. Of course, they suffer in the first person a very complex situation, but, of course, the Greek Government is aware of the circumstances. The aid of this rescue plan is directed to self-employed, micro-enterprises, host institutions... it was launched one day before the restrictions began in the 60 affected Greek municipalities. The day before, the measures were announced to raise awareness of all those affected. And it's just been extended, in addition, by responding to each and every of the demands that the sector has requested, by accelerating its processing, by flexing requirements and increasing investment. The result is that in the first 24 hours more than 11,000 applications were received from this aid — of an estimated 50,000 — which will begin, in addition, to be charged in this month of December; within a few days, in December. Look, for you the help of the Board is never enough; and I understand it, you're the opposition. But what I ask of you is a certain objectivity, because when these depend on the councils or on the deputies in which you rule, the speech is very different. Look, ladies and gentlemen, Galicia is by far one of the most helpful communities in the hospitality. The Basque Country gives between 3,000 and 4,000 euros; La Rioja, between 3,500 and 5,000; Castile and León, 3,500; Catalonia, 1,500; Galicia, between 3,600 and 9,200 for more than 50,000 professionals. That's the difference. I wish we could do more. And I'm sure if the situation goes on, we'll have to do more, but we can't tell ourselves that we don't do more than the others, when we do more than the others. You're not fair with the government, not even with reality, not even with a sector, which you're using. In addition to this joint rescue plan, other measures have also been put in place, such as aid for the adaptation of terraces or aid for the purchase of food packages to carry - more than three million euros -; we have also launched aid to cover the rental costs of the night's leisure sector; three-year-old loans - you asked what they were doing from the Igape, because three-year-old loans are lacking - or the line of aid for the maintenance of employment in this sector. The budgets of 2021 consolidate tax reductions amounting to EUR 500 million. Do you know what the Socialist Government is doing in Madrid? To raise taxes on the self-employed, the hostiers and the families. That's what makes us different, Mr. Rivera; you who didn't understand the differences. Look, the measures adopted by the Board were publicly applauded by representatives of the tourism and hospitality sectors of Galicia; by the tourism cluster, without going further. Why? Because we work hand in hand with them to put them into action; with the cluster and with the various entities that represent Galician hospitality. And, therefore, economic experts such as Santiago Lago acknowledged in their appearance in this Parliament that the reply of the Galician Union was agile and efficient - agile and efficient! - and, therefore, the measures were applauded also at national level, with statements like those made by the president of ATA Spain, Lorenzo Amor, who comments on a news in his official Twitter account where we speak of the aids established by the Galician Union and where he says, "To see if he is counting on the example in the central government and in other communities. This is how autonomy and hospitality companies are supported: I decree closure for health restrictions but compensation for those affected. This has also been done in France and Germany." That's what ATA Spain thinks, which represents a good number of autonomouss. Look, we are asking you to involve all administrations. The Greek Government does what it has developed over these days, published calls and orders in the CEO, but what do other administrations do, especially those in which you govern? I'll tell you. Look, while Junta approved the biggest sector aid line in Galicia's history, what was BNG doing? It is more, the day after registering this motion that we are debating — the day after you register this initiative — what were you doing at the BNG, ladies and gentlemen — I refresh your memory —? What were they doing where they were ruling? Pontevedra: "The agreement between the hostels and the Town Hall continues to be dead." Pontevedra: "Hostelery calls for clear aid and the exemption of fees in a caravan in the centre of Pontevedra". Yesterday: "The Pontevedra Town Hall is left alone in its refusal to relieve the tax burden for the coward." Mrs. González, this is what you were doing. Look, yesterday at the Plenty of the Pontevedra Town Hall, we were debating a People's Party motion asking for direct help from the Town Hall and exemption from municipal taxes and taxes for the inn. Do you know what you voted for? They voted against it. They voted against it! It does not seem reasonable, Mrs González — they must agree with me — to continue to charge taxes and municipal taxes to whom he cannot carry out his activity. Do you know what was the proposal you made yesterday to Mr. Lores' Government? Well, to mount a 100-foot Tyrolin on Queen Victoria Street -- that's the solution of the city government in Pontevedra where you rule. Do you know what your philosophy is? Do as I say, not as I do. That's the philosophy of the Galician Nationalist Block. It's not much better the attitude and behaviour of the Socialist Party. What were they doing at the PSOE? So I explain to you, to denounce and block the aid of self-employed and the hostess which established the Deputy of Ourense: "The PSOE of Ourense raises a litigation-administrative remedy for the aid of self-employed." Four million euros, 5,000 autonomous beneficiaries of 91 municipalities, direct grants of 600 euros already charged... what is the commitment of PSdeG-PSOE to self-employed and hostiers? To press a trial this call to see if it's possible that the self-employed in the whole province of Ourense have to return the aid. That's what concerns PSdEG-PSOE the self-employed and hostiers from all over Galicia. Look, Mrs. González, the Galician board's order says that in order to accommodate these direct aids, they have to check some 45% losses with respect to the billing of the same period in the previous year. Once you see that fact, you can charge those help. Do you know what the Government of Spain is demanding to be able to charge those that you have established from the Government? 75% and stop. You don't allow them to devote themselves to the activity at home. No, no, what they're asking is to stop, to stop. We, of course, will support the hosts so they can work, earn the money and have the resources that their families need. We want them to be able to work, and as long as they can't do it normally, there will be help from the Galician Union. I would ask them to make concrete proposals to contribute to the improvement of this sector, which is fundamental to the Greek economy. But what's not received is that you come here to do demagogy with an initiative. And I would ask them to apply the story and where they rule they make decisions to contribute. Because if all administrations work together -- local, provincial, autonomous --
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u140	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u141	...and the state—I'm sure we'll help improve the quality of life of many Greek families living in an area like the hostel. If we came here to criticize each other...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u142	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u143	...and making demagogy with disinformation — as the PSdeG-PSOE does — or with cheating initiatives, that you don't even apply where they rule, of course, weak favor to families that depend on the hospitality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u145	Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applause]] We will ask you to vote on points of your initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u146	For the author group of the motion, Mrs González Iglesias has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u147	Look, Mr. Tellado, first of all, I appreciate it if you don't tell me I'm uninformed... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, that's why I'm thanking you. But there's a problem, because the data I gave is not the same as you gave. Either I'm ill-informed or you're ill-informed, or you have information that we don't have. There's something wrong here. And then you accuse PSOE of informing yourself on Twitter, and you just sent us some information directly from Twitter. Here's something we might not be very good at. [[Applause]] And look, it's true, the Galician Union just got some help, some direct help. I said it in my intervention. The problem with these aids is they just left right now and they're late. And do you know what the problem is when something gets late? Healing a disease costs more. That is, if the aid goes out before, the situation is being controlled; at the moment that the continued losses of eight months are accumulated in an autonomous, recovering from this is much more difficult and the aid will have to be greater. That's the reality. The Galician Union has just taken out the self-helps this month, and that's irrefutable. Don't tell us they were the first because it's not true. [[Applause]] Then you tell me the lodgers are making a great sacrifice to save lives. Of course, from BNG you'll never hear a word against it. What is not to be received is that this sacrifice for saving lives always goes at the cost and back of the hosts and the self-employed. So we have to be those who are here to reverse that situation and who can go ahead. [[Applause]] And then he talked to him about the data. Of course, you tell me that I don't know how many millions of microenterprises you help... but that didn't come out; the order isn't. That's why I'm saying you should have data that we don't have, because we don't know how the hotel's help will come out. We know the announcement that has been made since the Galician Council in which the press conditions are given, but the order is unconvened. The same is true of micro-enterprises. I mean, we can't come here with data and tell you if it's okay or it's wrong if we don't have those help. They're not out, they're not. And the biggest in all Spain, I assure you they're not, because, besides, look, I can guarantee you one thing: the data I manage are information from autonomous communities, not even from the press. I've come into all the autonomous communities all over the country and I've made a comparison of the aid and I can assure you... we're talking about help, not loans, because if I put the loans to him, then we're almost in line with some. You tell us we have a problem because in Pontevedra Town Hall they're protesting the autonomy. I think you also have some problem, eh! because the lodgers are in the press and are going out and claiming what I told you, and tomorrow they're going to be here in Parliament. I mean, something happens. Something's not doing right. [[Applause]] Well, that's what BNG urges. BNG is always putting it in a constructive way: we want him to feel with the responsible people, with the valid interlocutors, and come together. No, no, no, no. [[Murmurs.]] Let's see, what you guys did was get to a final meeting, put in front of them a proposal and sign it. And they said no. No, it didn't expand. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Amount and nothing else has been increased. [[Murmurs.]] Look, of course, but they're not talking about expanding quantities, they're talking about what they want measures to guarantee their business. Well, look... we're clearly facing a problem of lack of measures to save the hostel, the autonomous and micro-enterprises in this country. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And before that, we have to make a rescue plan. Together you have to put in place a real rescue plan for autonomous people; a rescue plan dialogue and consensus with sectors, where your demands are collected and which ensures business and business continuity. A rescue plan with anticipation for the future; not for now, but for the medium, short and long term. And a rescue plan that will be put in place immediately; not with ads, but in the DOG — as you say —. And next year in the Budgets of the Galician Board, that rescue plan has to have a minimum stake of 200 million euros. Finally, a rescue plan must be put in place to ensure the survival of the self-employed, the self-sufficient and the pesetas of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u148	Thank you, Mrs González Iglesias. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] After the debate on motions was closed, we proceeded to the vote. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u149	We begin by voting on the Socialist Parliamentary Group at the initiative of Mr Julio Torrado. There are no amendments. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the information to be transferred by the Government of Greece to the municipalities regarding the incidence of cover-19, as well as to the Parliament of Galicia, in relation to the staff working in the Contact Monitoring Centre. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u150	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Marina Ortega. There's an amendment from the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, which has been accepted. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Marina Ortega Otero, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the impact of the covid-19 on residential care centres. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u151	Finally, we voted for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs González Iglesias... let's see what Mrs González Iglesias says, who made this motion. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u152	No problem, we vote for points.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u153	Do you accept a point vote?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u154	Yes, we accept.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u155	What points? How do you want to separate the dots? There are two? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] 1 and 2? Sorry, I didn't know the points there were. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I asked... there could be more, eh! It's normal for me to ask why I don't know what was in there. [[Murmurs.]] There's two, perfect. Well, nothing... We vote on one. Vote on point 1 of the G.P. Motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Daniel Pérez López, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demands to be made by the Central Government in relation to the impact of the covid-19 on the autonomous entrepreneurs. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This point 1 is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u156	We now vote point 2. Vote of point 2 of the G.P. Motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Daniel Pérez López, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demands to be made by the Central Government in relation to the impact of the covid-19 on the autonomous entrepreneurs. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 59; abstentions, 14. The voting is positive. This point 2 was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u157	One point was passed and another was not approved, but that's the motion. Thank you. And now we continue with non-law proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María del Carmen Rodríguez Dacosta and three other Members, on the launching by the Government of Galicia of a youth employment shock plan
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u158	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the non-law proposition, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u159	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u160	Wait, there's a lot of noise, wait a minute. We're waiting for you to dislodge a little bit of this, which is a lot of noise. [[Pause.]] Okay, let's get started. Please let us lower the tone a little so Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta can intervene. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u161	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. The Socialist Parliamentary Group today brings forward a proposal which deals with the labour market situation of our young people and girls, urging the Government of Greece to immediately put in place a youth employment shock plan that designs measures that contribute to the establishment of a quality employment framework, combating the despondent effect of young people and young women in Greece and facilitating their work integration. We will make a preliminary diagnosis of the situation of the conditions under which we are based on data from the third quarter of the EPA and a report prepared by the UGT on this subject. The data, as you will see, qualify the situation of the labour market for youth in Galicia as precarious, unstable and without rights. Precautionary is a set of situations that determine a situation of disadvantage or inequality, characterized in this case by a short duration of contracts. Most contracts with young people and girls have a duration of less than one year, as we will see, with high rates of temporality, reductions in unwanted days, high index of part-time days — as we will see — the generational gap, lower wages compared to the rest of the employed, excess overtime with or without pay — almost always compulsory realization — and all that entails greater, even a system of danger to the health of workers, young people and girls. Well, we've been witnesses in Galicia for a while that these variables perfectly define the situation in the German labour market. The third quarter EPA data reflect the alarming reduction of the active population. We have 17,400 more inactive boys and girls, 7,600 more unemployed girls and girls and a loss of active population, as I said, of more than 20,000 people in this collective. If we compare the evolution of the unemployment situation between the years 2019 and 2020 — data, as I said, today — we can see how a significant increase of unemployed people under 35 years of age takes place in absolute terms of 7,600. By age, within the youth group, what presents a greater number of people in unemployment is that of boys and girls from 25 to 29:22,100, nothing more and nothing less. But, as I said, even more serious is that the evolution of unemployment results in the fall of activity and the increase in inactive population, because, in addition to analysing the population in a situation of unemployment — as we have done — we take into account the evaluation of the active population, we see a strong fall: 20,200 people less among young people and girls. As far as the occupied population is concerned, there are currently 208,900 persons under 35 in Galicia in this situation, which is a contraction over a year ago of 27,900. But also very worrisome is the rate of unemployment of young people in Greece, which stands at 21.6%; 9.8 points higher than that of the age group, which is 11.8%. In just one year, young people in Greece lose four points of activity rate. In sectors, the expulsion of the labour market, you know what happens mainly in the service sector, which is where our boys and girls are represented most, in the hospitality sector, for example, and also in the business sector. The high level of unemployment and the poor quality of unemployment are the main lines that define the precarious employment of youth. The employment policies that have been developed by the Galician Union, the active employment policies that compete exclusively for this autonomous community, are transferred from the state to the community and have been totally disabled for them. The launch of the Conseilaria de Economía y Employo program for young people in Greece, of course, is not seeing the expected results, because the data in the plan are what they are. As far as training is concerned, if we also look at the variables in the training of young people under the age of 30 who are unemployed, it draws attention that, despite having more training, 22.87 % of people under the age of 30 and with higher education are in a position of unemployment. It is true that he sings more training, less unemployment, except for — as he said — in higher studies, what we have a problem, because we have already talked at parliamentary headquarters about the brain drain that is taking place in Galicia. If 40 people under the age of 30 are also unemployed and have the first stage of secondary or similar education, training and employment policies are needed to improve their qualifications and employability. Another variable is the working day. If we analyze the employment situation of youth according to the type of daytime, it is observed that 19% work part-time in Galicia -- 5.7 points more than in the age group -- Among children under 25 years of age, as always, bias spreads to 32%. In addition, it must be noted that, far from diminishing, 6,900 new people have been hired in the last year more in part-time than in the previous year. I think it's hard to make a life plan with this kind of contract. Far from being a voluntary option — because sometimes they sell us that young people want to study and match it with a part-time day contract — that's not true. 54.9 % of the new part-time recruits show that they do not do so on their own initiative, but because that's what they have on the table. As we said, timing affects 45.8% of wage earners under 35 years of age, 21.2 points more than in the age group. The data on the duration of contracts — even those allocated — is an important variable, and shows how youth faces worse conditions than the rest of the working population in Galicia. 34% of new people's contracts have a duration of less than one year. And only 4% show that they have a contract of more than three years. So, as we said, how do they emancipate themselves, how do they make a family project and a life plan? Most of them are labour contracts signed — as we know — as labour contracts, a given service, or as contracts for production circumstances. In addition to increasing the temporary recruitment against the indefinite — particularly six points in the last year — the rate of timeliness for young women and young people in Greece is 52.7%, versus 27.2% of the rest of the ages; nothing more and nothing less than 25 points more. If we talk about wages, the salary gap is impressive. Persons under 25 years of age receive an average of 12,417 euros per year compared to 24,009 people under 25 years of age, which is a difference of 11,590 euros per year. This logically results in a 48.20% wage gap. With reference to extraordinary hours, we can follow the variables in which we find ourselves: Thursdays are in a totally precarious situation, and it is that 6.2% of the young people in Greece perform extraordinary hours, compared to 4.98% of the total age — more than two points above the rest of the occupied population and also more than 5.39% of the whole state—. That is, in all the variables, young and young people in Greece — especially if we count the 25 to 29 stage — exceed the statistics. The Youth Guarantee Program, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, is not working. The data are clarifiers, since in the third trimester EPA there is an increase of 7,600 people in unemployment and a loss of active population, which is alarmingly 20,200. If the pandemic affects the labour market by itself, it is, if any, more alarming in the youth collective, as it is found that the percentages of affectation are most charged in any of the variables analyzed. Feijóo's policies in these years, in the last decade, have only undermined the labour market. You didn't look for a quality market, you didn't look for wages to go up, you didn't look for contracts to be stable... you get another type of contract, like it happens in health, where you call one person every two for three for two weeks, for a week, for a day. If that's done by the Greek administration itself, they won't do any other or other businessmen! Not everyone, of course. This situation of low dynamism in the labour market especially harms those who have to start their working life, because...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u162	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u163	Nothing else in my first intervention. I'll continue on the second. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u164	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u165	For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr. Ríos Santôme.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u166	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. I, about a year and a half ago, made an intervention around this issue and talked about something. And it's just that being a girl in this country meant several things: knowing that you're not going to have a job; knowing that, if you have, it's going to be in complete precariousness; and knowing that both one thing and the other are going directly to a forced emigration in search of a job or rather to improve the conditions of one's own. A year and a half later we see how this goes completely the same. Today the young Galician must face a situation of extreme precariousness if he is lucky to work or, almost, the miracle of being able to work. And the vast majority of them continue in unemployment or emigration. The data also speak, and they tell us about 80,000 girls less in this country since Mr. Fexóo rules. This would directly increase the percentage of unemployment that marks the EPA. The data is very useful but also very manipulatable. And I think everyone knows that, when they're interested, they give themselves in a way; and if they don't, they dance in another way. But we have to understand that in reality he also likes to impose his criteria. And the reality of the girls in this country — and the PSdEG-PSOE voicer was alluding to this — is the demobilization, the disappointment, the tremendous concern they have, because they don't know when they're going to be able to get back to work, they don't know how long their contract will last — which is usually very little, as we'll see — and they don't know where they're going to be next year, which part of the world. The Galician youth signed this year 2020 about 130,000 contracts. We must point out that one of the major indicators of precariousness is temporality in employment contracts. Over 90% of the contracts signed by the young people in Greece this year 2020 were temporary contracts, hourly contracts, dayly contracts or contracts for a few months. I, as a hostel worker for many years, know perfectly what it's like to sign three or four contracts every week; I know perfectly well what it's like to work on conditions of absolute precariousness and zero working conditions when working twelve or thirteen hours a day, for six days a week and without anyone paying you extra hours. We know that. Greek youth knows that. I believe that this Parliament should also know and take action in this regard. [[Applause]] We need to have a decent job, a quality job, a job that helps fix the population. We were talking in the morning about that demographic decline that our country has and that it's remarkable I think for all forces. But how will there be a decent job on our land when the actions of the Government of Greece in the last ten years have been directed to weaken our industrial fabric and weaken our productive sectors?Oh, my God! How will the young gale, in these conditions, be able to work in the country with dignity?Oh, my God! The Government of the People's Party is an expert — it says a lot of people, and I say it too — but it is an expert in selling our country to the precariousness imposed by the neoliberal agenda, by sinking into a colonial model with a sort of low-cost hospitality and tourism that brings about totally precarious working conditions and that comes to turn our country into a theme park of working precariousness to continue maintaining the privileges of metropolis. The girls in this country are denying the right to have their own life, a dignified life in our country and our land. Enough, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party to despise the Galician youth! We know that Galician youth don't trust the People's Party, they don't trust social or political. And that's what we saw in the polls. But I believe that this cannot be the reason for the German Government of the People's Party to force forced emigration of the young gales or to condemn them to absolute precariousness. Enough, enough to despise the girls of this country! In advance of the arguments that the People's Party can make, we see how the 2021 Youth Strategic Plan proposes a series of measures for youth employment that we understand are far from reversing the problem we've been talking about on this initiative. In the twelve headlines, in the twelve headings that contemplate the Strategic Plan in terms of employment, we saw a clear intention, which is to put young people in a labour market imposed by neoliberalism, and which constitutes a lack of obscene respect for girls in this country. There is no real plan to end this situation. The only thing you're doing is a perverse transfer of public money towards private pockets by facilitating the precarious recruitment of girls in this country. The business — you have to say it — is round. At this stage of the capitalist system we see how public administrations are the main guarantors of backwardness in labor rights, which translates directly into greater extraction of surplus value, in the loss of key elements, such as collective bargaining processes, and in the loss of fundamental rights for the working class. The real problem, the underlying problem, is not just unemployment — which is also unemployment — but the current labour market, which is really the underlying problem. It's a model problem. It is this labour market that accesses our youth and all the measures that will focus on introducing it into the most absolute precariousness with public money. Unfortunately, the problem is not just focused on a bench, since this labour market and the worsening of working precariousness are possible thanks to the working counter-reforms carried out by the People's Party and also by the Socialist Party in Central Government — that one side and the other side refuse to eliminate. But I'm not staying there. The pandemic of the Covid-19 cannot be used as an excuse for all these situations. The data was bad before. At which came the crisis of the coward-19 was to aggravate even more the problems, to make them even more palpable. We see how in the service sector, in an area like the hospitality sector, which is going to be hit and which is being hit hard by this crisis, the young people in Greece are going to lose a lot, because the young people who work in these sectors can be counted by thousands. He said that this pandemic — the crisis of the coward — could not be used as an excuse, but they are using it as an excuse. They are using it as an excuse to speed up the progress of the neoliberal agenda in this country, by carrying out an acceleration — as I said before — of the digitization of the world of work that had completely turned their backs on the working class and which only brings more precariousness and more backwardness on the rights of girls and the whole of this country. In this acceleration, public administrations have not been able to defend our interests, as can be seen in the decree of teleworking or in the nullity of measures against the "governing" of work. Many young and young people in this country also have many times to resort to playing their physical and psychological integrity as distributors of Glovo or other companies in situations of false autonomy. This is something you're not fighting either, because you're giving them broad sleeves and free letter to companies to do whatever they want with our youth. It's not time to park, it's time to get on the side of the Galician youth knowing that this issue has to be treated as a matter of country. I was talking about this debate, about the weakening of the industrial sector in our country and the productive sectors. This is directly related to that. We need a country agreement to guarantee the work of young people in Greece, to generate more work in industry, to generate value added in our productive sectors, to make it possible to set ourselves here and to make our country really progress, really prosper and we are able to create a stable and quality job that allows people to stay here, to return those close to 80,000 girls — if they so wish — to our country and that this land has a future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u167	Thank you, Mr. Rios Santomé. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Balseiro Orol has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u168	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, very early. Mr. Rivers, I've been listening carefully to your exhibition, and I thank you for your tone, which I also understand was constructive. There was only one thing I didn't understand. You said you had noticed in the polls that youth had not supported the People's Party in this case. I don't know where you noticed him in the polls. What I know is that the People's Party has a large majority in Galicia and you have what you have. I don't know if you know how to distinguish in the polls which are the votes of youth and which are the votes of the rest. Of course, I, who carried out some electoral campaign and who also had the honour to run some, never knew that. [[Applause]] If you can tell me later, I'd appreciate it, because you're always willing to learn. Ladies and gentlemen, it is only necessary to read the proposal for this agreement, or this initiative, to see that the Socialist Party does not take this matter seriously. It takes advantage of the fact that all political forces agree on the need to work for a better future for the young, a collective of those most affected by the labor crisis resulting from the pandemic — of course we are sure. But you're just asking for more measures in this direction without giving any idea, no action for the executive to carry out. Look, Mrs. Rodríguez, I'll give you three data: The unemployment rate for young people under the age of 25 is lower in Galicia than in the state average. In Galicia it is 36.63 % and in Spain it is 40.45 %. I mean, we have a four-point differential in favour of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. Second, the unemployment rate of children under 30 is also significantly lower in our autonomous community than in Spain. In Galicia it is 28.2% and in Spain it is 31.4%. I mean, a 3.2 point differential. But if we want to go further, if we want to go further and analyze the unemployment rate for children under 30 as compared to April 2009 — with the government bipartisan — they were registered 210,662. In October 2020, 181.307, i.e. almost 30,000 less. That's the situation right now. But it's true that you insist on the Socialist Party's formula, which is to recreate the problems that others must then solve. And yet, in the People's Group and the Galician Union, we do not resign — nor are we satisfied, of course not —. The youth unemployment situation is one of the main concerns and is the focus of various measures launched by the Union on active employment policies. The result of these results has been good results in recent years that validate the effectiveness of the initiatives to support the improvement of the employment situation of the group of girls and boys. Over the past few months, the Government of Greece, aware of the special situation in the labour market because of the coward, is working tirelessly to ensure the maintenance of activity and employment. One of the priority areas for action of the Galician Strategic Youth Plan 2021 is employment and entrepreneurship. And on this axis the different programs running in Galicia Junta are locked. It is planned to invest more than 9 million euros in actions for the employment of young women and young people in Greece over the next two years. In this way, programs aimed at improving training would be launched so that they could be incorporated into the labour market. We are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about employment programmes for young people to start the professional stage; from a specific line for young people under 30 years of age, which plans to benefit more than 300 unemployed; from the Employment Youth programme; from dual support to businesses, which includes the €3,000 to €6,000 recruitment bonus for companies who hire under 30 years of age, or from the training bonus. We are talking about initiatives aimed at promoting, between girls and young people, the social economy as a formula for entrepreneurship and employment; or the additional incentive for people who join as working partners in youth cooperatives. We are talking about training and employment, with mixed programmes that allow you to earn a wage while you are learning — like, for example, young workers. And we could go on, but it's just to quote in this roadmap some of the most important initiatives that the Galician Union has. That is why from Galicia, ladies and gentlemen, we want to follow the example of the governments of the People's Party, where they ruled — in Spain and also in Galicia — that managed to reduce the youth unemployment rate by half — all contrary to what the Socialist Party did where it ruled. They introduced initiatives such as the salary supplement of 430 euros in training contracts for children under 25 years of age, or the bonus of 3,000 euros for entrepreneurs who made indefinite contracts for young people and girls. Measures, by the way, that have eliminated the Socialist Party and We can when they arrived at the Government of Spain — both of them —. So we want to consolidate Galicia's good data, which has been five consecutive years making the number of returnees greater than the number of workers leaving out. [[Murmurs.]] We do not believe in the fallacy of those who ensure that the pandemic has highlighted the failure of the liberal system. No, Your Honor, no. We do not believe in that fallacy, because youth employment is not better in countries that apply another model, such as Cuba or Venezuela. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm done, ladies. In these days, young people are showing their solidarity with their communities, caring for our seniors in hospitals or just in their neighborhoods, moving away from social life or even organizing joint initiatives to achieve prayers and to help the most vulnerable people in this case. The young Greeks can make it clear that, at least as far as the People's Party is concerned, and also the Government of Galicia, we will not forget them. Young employment will be our priority before, during and after the pandemic, but not with empty proposals of content — such as the initiative presented today by the Socialist Party — but with policies backed by facts and with budgetary support provided for in the most social accounts of history, as the Council of Galicia is doing. But I have to tell you that, to a certain extent, it is surprising that it is precisely the Socialist Party who comes to this House — at the plenary session of the Galician Parliament, the highest institution we have in our autonomous community — to promote a debate on measures to improve the situation of youth employment. I say this — which surprises us that it is the Socialist Party — because, we use the data we use, it is very easy to verify that it is the socialist governments, in the whole of Spain and in the autonomous communities where they rule, those who have the dubious merit of being champions in destruction of young employment. I mean, it's the policies of the Socialist Party — accompanied on many occasions, it's also true, of the vital help of its partners, the nationalist and leftist forces — which in an objective and measurable way most damage and precariously caused the young people of Galicia. The conclusion is very simple. When ruling the Socialist Party, it becomes a real machine of destruction of youth employment in our country — be it the last stage of Zapatero, either the next one or the current one. No, you laugh, you laugh, we're talking about things that are not serious...! [[Murmurs.]] No, you've got enough in the Coruña! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, you don't do anything! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You, who put it as a fixer in the Coruña, fix that of the Coruña. [[Strong murmurers.]] No, you've got enough in the Coruña! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't know what you mean by "three," "two," "zero"... I don't understand very well. [[Laughter]] But you manage the Coruña. [[Applause]] You've been called a fixer in the Coruña. [[Strong murmurers.]] And, as you've been called a fixer in the Coruña, you've got enough to do, if you give it a fixer. [[Laughter]] And believe me, I don't see him politically trained to fix it. [[Strong murmurers.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Now they just passed an educational law, a disastrous law, in order to match below, and which means an attack on freedom, effort and merit. Reduces assessments and allows you to pass course with suspended materials. In short, it cuts the capacities of girls and boys and worsens their professional conditions, even though they are basic so that they can find stable and quality jobs in the future. So I don't think the Socialist Party can teach or do any lessons. And, sir, you, you -- I'm done -- you fix the Coruña, you fix the Coruña, you fix the Coruña...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u169	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u170	...because you, in the gallery of this Parliament... besides, wanted to tell him. Because, look, when I came into this Parliament, I didn't comb his hair. Today, look at the canes I've got. And the truth is that what I heard this morning in this House — and this is my fifth legislation — I did not hear it from any Member other than you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u171	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He didn't mention it, no, no... [[Murmurs.]] One moment, let's get a little order. He gives an opinion, but he didn't mention it to you. No, let's see... [[Strong murmurers.]] You didn't name him, you didn't name him! [[Protests.]] It's true that it was an intervention — I have to say it — that it has even turned out to be a certain way... well, I'm also sometimes unable to contain myself and, if an intervention I like... and this today has also caused me some relaxation, which you want me to tell you! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So I didn't hear anything that, at the trial of this presidency, was offensive to you. [[Laughter]] No, I didn't hear it! That's why I'm saying it. [[Murmurs.]] Allusions — since, in this case, you will ask me to speak for allusions — will be appreciated by the Presidency. I value that there was no allusion and no judgment of value against you at this moment, or that you could, in some way, be against your dignity. I didn't hear him. So I won't give you the floor. I don't think I should give it to her, because no, no, and, besides, it's up to her to speak to this fat lady now. I don't think so. No, no, no. [[Murmurs.]] Please... Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta, it's up to you to close this non-law debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u172	Thank you, President. I understand that Mr. Balsairo doesn't want to talk about young employment and that he would rather look at that bench at a fellow mine, call it a fixer and make some criticisms that didn't come up on this subject. But, well, we do want to talk about young jobs and not the Coruña. We're going to talk about data, as you said, because you fall short of data compared to the state variable. I can also give you data and I don't know what you're going to look like, because bias -- twice bias, we're talking about a temporary contract of a given time -- less than a year normally, and also part time -- in Spain is at an index of 6.9 %, but it's that in Galicia it's at 14.3 %. I mean, I don't think I can breast-feed the data if we compare them to the Spanish state. It's just that we're always going to lose, we're always going to lose. When we also talk about the unemployed we have in Galicia under the age of 30, or under the age of 25... Of course, in Ourense – – I am from Ourense – – they will soon get to full employment, and we will not have young unemployed. Why? Because we're not going to have Thursday. And when I used to tell you that 20,200 young men and girls went from Galicia, what I was telling you is that they went to other communities that have more quality employment options or abroad. But what's the matter? That, at that time, those 20,200 young men and women no longer seek work in Galicia and are no longer unemployed in Galicia. So, of course, so I think it's quite inappropriate to use the data. Because I believe, Mr. Balsairo, that you know a lot of people who have children, or have grandchildren, who have finished their careers, that we have trained them here at big German universities and it turns out that they have had to take that suitcase that Mr. Feijóo was talking about and have to go. Now they've made a family project, a future project and a personal project outside our community and they're not going to return. The Socialist Party made a positive proposal, which was to draw up a plan. What should we do? What we have to do is look at the demand we have in the labour market from below to above, by areas, by districts, to train our young people and to make incentives for hiring companies that have that need for recruitment. And that's not going to be done, it's going to be done from top to bottom and not from bottom to top, because we're doing workshops with categories of pawns, but, of course, it's six months being formed so that later there comes a moment when they don't have the right training, because for pawns, I know, you don't need a professional title; simply by working on a work you acquire that condition. We can then talk about specific data and concrete witnesses published in the press and which I do not say, but I wanted to mention before — because I remember a plan that you specifically mentioned or which is in the report of the Labour Council, which is "Integrated Employment Programmes" — that the previous year was granted to Dodro City Council, which has achieved a commitment to work integration of 60%, and it turns out that this year is not given this program, like the other municipalities in the district, to grant it to the DomusVi Foundation, and I do not believe that it is the DomusVi Foundation the example of recruitment we want in Galicia. Well, I'm also going to talk to you about some publication in the press, specifically in July 2020 -- and I'm not writing it, uh! -- He says, "Democratic alarms sound higher in Galicia than ever before. The Greek territory is left without children and Thursdays, and forced emigration is not a phenomenon of the past. The statistics of the Union are estimated at about 300,000 of the Greeks who have made the suitcase for the foreign and other points of Spain." The difference in diaspora... as it won't give me time, I'm going to pass on to this person's witness. He says: "In Galicia there is a continuous increase and a sharp lack of health personnel to care for a population that emulates in ageing countries like Japan. Since graduating in 2011, the coruñesa has spent four years in the shower with the mobile phone for if she was called the Galician Health Service to make replacements, sometimes a few days and at distances that could reach several tens of miles from her home. After testing the life of a potential health nurse from Galician public health, she decided to take the suitcase: "I was either leaving or staying at my parents' home on my mobile, since if you don't answer, they'll penalize you and stop calling you. Once they called me fifteen minutes before starting the shift to incorporate me now," she explains to her 29 years old. Only to reach the United Kingdom, he went to work at the ICU of a public hospital with indefinite contract, salary and vacation. He couldn't believe it. Over the three and a half years that he spent in that centre, he has received several salary increases due to his experience, as well as training courses. But he's decided to come back. "The experience with the coronavirus has been very stressful, has helped me to think that I want to be close to my family and friends," Maria explains. Your experience at the English hospital allows you to post posts on the Sergas list and aspires to achieve more stable contracts than one or three months." Well, I think these witnesses tell us very clearly: precariousness, low wages, frankly outraged conditions for our Thursdays...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u173	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u174	It is true that we are now on a complicated horizon, but we have weapons to get those who are here today — the young people who finish their careers today, the young people who are doing vocational training — to follow the path of employment, quality employment, stable employment. Let the Galician Union analyze the program that is developing both in the young people of Galicia and elsewhere — but in this case in the young people and girls — and prevent these boys from having to flee from our community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u175	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta. Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Leticia Gallego Sanromán and two other Members, on the development by the Galician Council of a new plan of R & D+i, as well as the action to be taken on the degree of implementation of the Galician Innovation 2020 Plan
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u176	Amendments have been tabled by the Parliamentary Group on the Galician Nationalist Block and by the People's Parliamentary Group. [[(G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block (BNG), at the initiative of Mr Ramón Fernández Alfonzo, in the light of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits the following amendment to this non-law proposal, Doc. # 3552 (11/PNP-000381).Additional amendment.Add a new point in the resolution with the following text:"3. To invite, as a matter of urgency and as soon as possible, the order of aid to support the post-doctoral training phase at the universities of the Galician University System, the public research bodies of Galicia and other entities of the Greek R & D+i system by 2020."]] [[(G. P. Popular de Galicia, through its spokesperson and at the initiative of Mrs Sandra Vázquez Domínguez, in the light of the provisions of Article 161.2 and in agreement with the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-law proposal (1/PNP-000381).Replacement amendment.The text of point 1 of the resolution should be replaced by the following:"The Parliament of Galicia urges the Council of Galicia to: To develop an ambitious and new Greek R+D+i plan in 2021, with a higher budget allocation that enables us to double the total expenditure in Research, Development and Innovation to place Galicia on the Spanish media")]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u177	To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u178	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The current economic crisis has its origin in a health crisis — as everyone knows — and the consequences on the lives and health of people around the world are potentially devastating. The economic consequences are a direct result of the strategy of minimizing the human costs of the epidemic in conditions of collective uncertainty. The strategy to eliminate the epidemic has significantly reduced economic activity. Production and consumption in normal conditions are inseparable from social contact; the longer the deepest and most incalculable social isolation lasts are the consequences for individuals and companies. The evolution of the economy is very determined by health evolution and, therefore, by the possibility of doing social activities normally, among them to move easily. No one has complete security, because no one knows what's going to happen. We don't know the duration of the crisis, whether there's going to be bigger or how, if, on the contrary, research efforts are making possible a vaccine or two, according to the latest news. We have to bet more and more on research, development and innovation. It is essential to move forward towards new ways of action in industrial policy, especially in the current context of growing fragility of the international economy. The expectations for the current year and the years 2021 and 2022 speak of a slowing of the very important growth due to the pandemic of the coward-19. The emergence of new activities and new forms of production obliges the public to strengthen this structural transformation. The central element of this new stage of industrial production is knowledge, which would have to lead our economy towards greater productivity, which in turn will allow for mobility in employment. It is essential to improve the efficiency of R & D+i policies, to support entrepreneurship and to stimulate organizational change and technological and infrastructure modernization. It is essential to make greater economic effort, but it must be accompanied by the objectives of minimizing barriers to growth and improving the productivity of the industrial fabric; not only of the most intensive industrial tissues in knowledge, but also of the traditional industrial sectors. It is necessary to establish a realistic and visionary industrial policy that will allow Galicia to have the opportunity to win its future on the 4.0 industry stage. The Galicia Innova 2020 Plan of the Galician Union had as its objective to consolidate Galicia as an innovative territory to improve the competitiveness of businesses, promote sustainable growth and generate quality jobs. In order to achieve these objectives, the plan aimed to: increase staff employed in R & D activities by 11%; increase the number of businesses with innovative activities by 15 %; add 20 % more to business spending in innovative activities; increase business volume by 15 % in new or improved products; and achieve 1.7 % gross domestic product expenditure. Or 1,7 %! "Then we'll see that nothing further from reality." The Galicia Innova 2020 Plan of the Galician Union failed to meet these objectives, which is insufficient and insufficient to meet the challenges of the sector in the face of this pandemic caused by the cover-19. Research, development and innovation must be a strategic sector for the public policies of the Galician Union in the face of this health and economic crisis that we are living in. The Socialist Parliamentary Group calls on the Galician Union to bet on a strengthened and results-oriented R & D, giving priority to activities with a common knowledge base of some intensity, strengthening the science and technology system and increasing public contributions to it. Our group also bets to put in place mechanisms that encourage private participation in the general innovation system, so its spending advances towards 1.5% of gross domestic product. There is one axiom that is always fulfilled: it only increases private investment in R+D+i when it previously increases sustainably in time public investment. If anything shows this crisis of coward-19 is the importance of betting on research. Research has the capacity to respond to the great challenges and problems of the world in which we live. The Socialist Group is committed to reducing the bureaucratic burden of carrying out research projects, increasing the number of pre- and post-doctoral contracts and providing stability to the research career. For example, the templates of the three Greek health research foundations have been negotiating their work agreement with the Health Council for two years to resolve their precarious working situation. Two years! Some researchers from the Galicia South Biomedical Foundation have been chaining their contracts for a decade. [[Applause]] Health research has decreased by 11,5 % from 2018 to 2020, as can be seen in budget heading 621B. How can this happen? How can the budget be lowered in health research? A message for the Health Counsellor, who today spoke of this and said they were in it; they've been on it for two years. [[Applause]] We are betting on research on point eids and also on specifics, which are very important for Galicia, for example in the fisheries and shellfish sectors. That's where the right one governs – and Galicia is no exception –, the investment in R+D+i is minimal. After three legislates of this People's Party government, there was more than enough time to realize the economic and social error that I didn't suppose to bet on the R & D+i. Don't make those mistakes again, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party; don't make this mistake again. Together you have to bet on a model that prioritizes R+D+i, and more at this point where the economy will depend on innovation and research. The German government has to push research and innovation, otherwise we'll still be the last in R+D+i. We have to bet on an innovative Galicia with concrete commitments and real progress or we will lose the battle of the future. I know they're going to say that the Galician Innovation Agency will increase its budget by 25%. This increase is still very insufficient, too insufficient! and then it needs to be executed. This autonomous government has many duties for the future, like looking for a more stable path of growth. Innovation-based productive systems are far less affected by the adverse economic environment. There is no doubt about the link between R+D+i investment and economic growth in the territories. Those who have invested most — and more constantly over the years — are those who enjoy the highest levels of wealth and, above all, with greater economic strength to withstand the attack of economic crises. With the old model our productivity doesn't grow. That can only be overcome if we redouble our efforts and improve our human capital and our technology. It is essential to increase the investment in R+D+i much more. We have to show researchers and researchers who have a clear career perspective, who have a future. The Socialist Parliamentary Group urges the Galician Union to develop an ambitious and new plan of R & D+i with a greater budget allocation that will allow us to double our spending on research, development and innovation to place Galicia on the Spanish media. I hope all groups support this non-law proposal. In the Socialist Parliamentary Group we advocate the importance of betting on a model that prioritizes research and innovation. That's why we are calling on the Union to increase the percentage of investment in R & D+i in order to move from the current 0.9% to 1.5% of gross domestic product in the next two budgets. In the current scenario of economic crisis derived from the curfew-19 part of the reconstruction funds will be oriented to projects linked to the digital and technological transformation of our economy and tractor projects to activate the change of production model. Irreparably the bet on R+D+i will be the bet on the country's future, and Galicia must not even stay behind. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u179	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Fernández Alfonso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u180	Good afternoon. Far from betting on the knowledge economy, the People's Party has cut public investment in research over the last decade, making Galicia not only move forward but lose positions. The German investment in research, development and innovation in relation to its GDP fell from 1.04 to 0.94 of the years 2017 and 2018 and went back in 2019 to 0.93%. Just 0.93% compared to 1.24% average in the Spanish state, occupying the eighth position behind, for example, Euskadi, which takes its investment in R & D+i to 1.96% of its GDP — more than twice as much as Galicia — or Navarra, with 1.68%; Catalonia, with 1.52%; or Castile-Leon, with 1.3% of its GDP, 30% more than Galicia in relative terms. There is still 2.2% of the EU average. And it's also a long way from 1.53% that is invested in the Northern Region of Portugal and is gaining positions in the EU while Galicia loses them. These facts denote, ladies and gentlemen, a tendency; it's not a fixed picture or a circumstantial question. Galicia loses positions in the EU parameters, given that it accurately describes the zero degree of commitment to the R & D+i of the People's Party's governments, while the territories of our closest surroundings, which we must necessarily compare — as we insist, northern Portugal or Basquedi — can move forward and gain positions. Today we occupy position 212 of the 238 European regions analysed through the EU parameters that measure the investment made in R & D+i. The causes of this regression have all their origin in the poor allocation of economic resources, although they are manifested in different ways that we are not going to fully detach today, but we are going to put an end only to one of the most important — not to say the most important — human resources management. All researchers agree that the lack of job stability is the main obstacle to the progress of research itself. The need to be constantly concerned about continuity at work; the need to be involved in procedures and deadlines for renewing grants; the fact that contracts have a shorter duration than required in order to gain access to certain investigative status and thus to larger projects; the fact that there are public structures where 90% of investigator staff are possible; low wages, etc. They are big traps from the point of view of consolidating the system, because these difficulties cause abandonment or escape; that is, a stay in a foreign country that should be temporary may ultimately become due to the better conditions compared to what they find. In any of the assumptions the system loses very well-prepared people who have invested a lot of public money, which will, at best, produce knowledge and wealth in other territories. The recruiting system of the investigator's staff is so precarious that it has to be self-stretched to keep going. Thus, we find standards that speak of the expectation of overcoming a public procurement process, or of the contractor's commitment to the continuity of the investigator as requirements for opting for certain projects. All to draw the possibility — very real — that the investigator in question has no contract in force at the time of the proceedings. This reality leads to the best option — if not the only one — to gain that necessary stability is to become a personal researcher; a situation in which, although stable from the working point of view, they cannot be devoted to full-time research either. And that whenever that possibility exists in the particular area of research. Other circumstances that require the attention of the investigator's staff are administrative, technical and management work and the evaluation continues. The lack of properly trained and specialized management personnel not only causes a great workload for the researcher's staff, but also causes ineffectiveness in resource management; just as a system of evaluation continues to be bureaucratic and redundant in excess, it does not respond to its primary purpose either. And, as always, precariousness and eventuality penalize women above all that, despite being more than 50 percent of the people licensed and having better academic records, they get to lower management positions. So we have abandonment, escape, complementary teaching, management and coordination, lack of measures to promote equality and conciliation, low wages, etc. Circumstances which together lead — as they have been warning from certain areas — in which we have not guaranteed even the necessary generational relief. The view of the set, as I said, that these facts do not give to the convenience. We'll never get to weave an efficient knowledge management network in these conditions. It is necessary to take action, to start by increasing investment in R+D+i and by profoundly modifying the model of recruitment and management of human resources throughout the Welsh research system. In this regard, the representative of InvesteGal, in his presence in the Reactivation Commission, left some reflections of interest that we made ourselves and also some proposals. First reflection: human resources are precisely the cornerstone of research, so we must value the starting point by professionalizing and stabilizing the investigator's staff. And second reflection: the financing of research is not a expense, but an investment with correct yields in the medium and long term. And he added four proposals: giving stability, eliminating dead periods caused by grant calendars, hiring management staff and implementing measures to promote equality and reconciliation. At the BNG we understand that the proper consideration of research as a strategic sector — but the fact that the success we can have in this area depends on improving the conditions in which the researcher's staff develops their activities — obliges us to provide the sector with a genuine career of the researcher's staff who clearly contemplates all their phases and guarantees decent working conditions. As for our amendment to addendum on the post-doctoral call, as you will know, this is the only call in Galicia for those doctors to continue their research career. A modality we don't agree with since BNG and with which we are immensely critical of their conditions, but which is practically the only option today if our researchers and researchers want to stay in Galicia and continue their professional career here. As we could tell, the Galician Union decided to leave the post-doctorals unconvened in 2020 arguing that the health and epidemiological situation caused by the coward prevents the stay in the foreign country corresponding to modality A, which, as you know, is two years' stay at the first stage. One argument which seems most to be an excuse, because similar calls to other institutions — such as the Marie Curie of the European Commission or the Basque Government's post-Doubts — have been called. It would be understandable that the pandemic could delay the call, especially by paralysing a part of administrative activity during confinement, but what can not be done is to use coward-19 as an excuse to leave a year blank and not convene — the same as in 2015 — the order of aid, because this greatly impairs, firstly, those who were already in the mode, who are unemployed from 31 December, without the possibility of continuing their training and research projects; and, secondly, those who have finished thesis and wanted to compete with this call because — I insist — is the only one in Galicia. Since the BNG, we believe that, far from not calling, Galicia's board should increase investment, increase the number of squares and redevelop the call so that it's really a determined and strategically committed R & D+i. To finish, ladies and gentlemen, I don't think it refers to the importance of scientific research, the pandemic has come to put us all in front of the mirror. Also in many other things, but as far as this, of course, their judgment was implacable in terms of human lives and in terms of economic and social crisis. And, as I said, the People's Party governments don't go well from examining their policy for R+D+i. We hope that there will be a change of heart in this regard. Without science there is no future, ladies and gentlemen; scientific research must be a strategic bet. It's necessary and, in addition, it's reprehensible. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u181	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Alfonso. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vázquez Domínguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, one year ago we were in the final line of the budgetary process of some accounts by this year 2020; strict but prudent accounts. A bet to reinforce support for strategic sectors in which it spins and spins the economic growth model of our community. Budgets were focused on social spending, R & D+i and self-help and small businesses. Galicia continued on the path of stable growth, which allowed the growth of the Greek GDP to rise by about 3% and also a very important aspect: the increase in employment. A year later, some budgets are being processed for the next year 2021; some exceptional budgets for an exceptional situation. A year in which all efforts must focus on the fight against cowardice and the struggle against the strong recession that is expected to live over the coming years. For this reason the Government of Greece has designed the highest budget in Galicia's history, but not only in amount — which is EUR 11,664 million — but in quality, investing in social expenditure, health expenditure and the reactivation of the economy. Focusing on this last and on the non-law proposal brought by the Socialist Group, the Galician Innovation Agency is playing a very important role in moving forward with investor capacity and thus activating the economy and employment. The crisis caused by the coward generated an immediate response by the Galician Innovation Agency, which brought with it the launching of projects and aid oriented to the fight against the coward-19. There is no longer any need to enter your website and check the help that companies are making available to you in their fight against the coward-19. Galicia exports digital, liquidity programs, new Connect accelerator, which aims at consolidating projects focused on innovative solutions to cover, in addition to Innovapeme programs, joint research units or even support aids to postdoctoral stages. Mrs Gallego and Mr Fernández indicated in their intervention that greater economic effort is essential. Of course, we agree. But, to see if Mrs. Gallego is more fortunate and asks her head of line - Pedro Sánchez - to see if she pays attention to it and we'll have some of the 700 million that she still owes us in order to increase the budget in the Galician Innovation Agency. The spokesperson for the Galician Nationalist Block said that the budget was not increasing in the Galician Innovation Agency. I think he didn't have a chance or maybe he didn't have time to be able to study the budget increase that's done in the Agency. Gain's budget for the next year 2021 exceeds EUR 126 million, Mr Fernández, compared to the 101 that was in 2020, and it is 25% more. The one with the cuts, I think that, as you're always talking about them, he passed it a little and also threw it into the Gaga Agency. But 126 was always much more than 101. [[Applause]] The wager of the German Government is indisputable; the data speak for themselves. And that increase in chapter VII, from 63 million euros to 87, is an increase of 38%. That is, there are some accounts that grow for the eighth consecutive year -- some accounts that have an average increase of 20% over the last four years -- and some accounts whose budget is multiplied by 2.5 points over the year 2013. You speak, Your Honor, that none of your goals have been met. I think you're missing the truth. The latest data on R & D expenditure published by the INE are 2018 - since the data from the year 2019 have not gone out for now - reaches the highest figure, with EUR 591 million, assuming an increase of 3.3% compared to the previous year. If we make a joint balance over the last three years, we'll see that the growth in R & D was 19% in Galicia compared to 12% in Spain. And that of the researchers, 22% versus 14% at the state level. The spokesperson for the Socialist Group that there were autonomous communities governed by the Socialist Party that were investing most. Home! I don't know if the Basque Country is ruled by the Socialist Group. I think so far it still governs nationalist ideology. Or even the Community of Madrid, which is being ruled by the People's Party, invests more than socialist governments. I have here the chart, which I can pass perfectly so that I can analyze the data I give you. [[Mr Vázquez Domínguez shows a chart.]] Those figures I was giving earlier of the wagering by the German Government reflect Galicia's firm commitment to innovation as a key to increasing competitiveness and well-being. Even so, all the applications and all the performances carried out by the German Government in their fight against the pandemic need to be done efficiently and efficiently. And to manage these resources — needs in R & D — was created very recently, at the last Board of Directors, an interdepartmental commission to strengthen the advance development. The committee will have a technical group — which is what all committees have to do — to carry out this study of specific initiatives, proposals and projects. Mrs. Gallego, in the resolution of your initiative, plans that the Italian R & D+i Plan will end in less than a month. Look, ladies and gentlemen, it's impossible what you're asking for, because it depends on your state government, which still hasn't done the Innova Plan for the year 2021-2027. To centralize the debate a little more, in the Tax and Administrative Measures Act two years ago, an essential change was made by which the Strategy of Smart Specialization — i.e. RIS3 — became the plan as well. In other words, it is necessary for the strategy — RIS 3 — to go from the plan, because if not, it would be totally incomprehensible. That is what we ask you to do, which must go to the strategy of the same hand — as I said — of the plan; otherwise it is impossible to agree and reach a greater agreement. The amendment proposed by the Group of the People's Parliamentary Group is done. It is necessary to have the year 2021 in order to be able to carry out the new RIS3 and evaluate the Galicia Innova 2020 Plan. Of course that new plan will be realized, ladies and gentlemen. You have no doubt that the German Government will do so. And it's going to be guided by the innovation strategy of the multi-year financial framework of the year 2021-2027, in which a big economic bet is being made, as I said at the beginning of my intervention. So, Your Honor, it's not realistic for you to ask to make a plan in a month. It's not being objective, because state strategy by the Ministry of Science and Innovation recently closed, and recently closed after months waiting. We believe it was the cause of the coward, but we understand it from the German Government. The Spanish Strategy of Science and Technology is necessary to have it so that autonomous communities can make the plan. As for the amendment to add the Galego Nationalist Block, it is a copy and paste; such as a copy and grab of the 4th Commission. As it wasn't proposed there, they brought her here to see if she was cooped, or if we could plant her any other way. Mr Fernández, you are addressing a timely question that answers at a specific time, and has already been informed that, influenced by the global pandemic, it has been necessary for it to be extended — as has been said earlier — to be extended. The post-doctoral call for 2020 was extended, which has nothing to do with the definition of a more general and future planning. And I'm done now, Mr. President. The current scenario requires the activation of all innovation potential to help businesses and people anticipate change, as well as maximizing the opportunities that entail profound advances linked to globalization and the socio-economic challenges currently faced by society. The new plan must achieve the objectives of modernising the economy, competitiveness and social progress to combat the economic, social and health crisis that we are facing. This parliamentary group therefore tabled an amendment to the first point, where the Galician Parliament urged the Galician Parliament to draw up — as it does not! — this ambitious plan, but during 2021, with a greater budget allocation that allows us to double — as the Government of Galicia is doing and as I said at the beginning of my intervention — the social expenditure of research, development and innovation to place Galicia on the average of Spain. For my part, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u183	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Domínguez. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the Non-Legal Proposition, Mrs. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u184	Thank you, President. Mrs. Vázquez, if prudence is established in the lack of execution of the budget at R+D+i, yes, the Galician Union is very careful. Yeah, yeah, we don't doubt it. [[Applause]] Before we go on, I mean, we're going to accept the BNG amendment. In fact, we have already taken the initiative on post-doctoral training aids in committee, and yesterday the parliamentary group was brought together with the InvesGal association. And we're also going to accept the amendment of the People's Party, to see that we want to consensus and we want this to go ahead. We're also going to accept your amendment. [[Mr Vázquez Domínguez nod.]] But, Mrs Vázquez, Galicia's GDP expenditure is 0.94% compared to 1.24% in Spain and 2.18% on the European average. In Galicia we have to build a new growth model, devoting 1.5 % of the German gross domestic product to R & D+I. This can be accomplished in two budgetary exercises. For this to happen, the Galician Union must support the field of R & D+i, increasing much, much more, that match in the budgets of the next two years. Those 126 million announced in the budgets are insufficient for Galicia to become a region of strong innovation. And then they must be executed, they must be executed. Galician Union has to raise the level of public funding to R+D+i. Galicia is in this field, with fewer investments on the gross domestic product at present than in previous stages. Besides, while other communities have made a lot of progress, our stay is behind. And I didn't talk about the Basque Country; if you want to talk about it, very well, but I didn't talk about the Basque Country. This reflects the comparison with northern Portugal, as well as the average of European regions and also of the autonomous communities of Spain. The index setting the European Union sinks Galicia to item 189 of the 238 regions analysed, losing 27 posts and with the qualification of a moderately innovative region. In the meantime, the northern region of Portugal is at number 100 — a region with strong innovation — after winning 29 positions. In the examination of the 17 indicators with which the European Commission prepares the ratio of R & D+i which allows it to classify the Community regions, the North of Portugal exceeds Galicia in 15 of them. The Portuguese North stands out — and much — in numbers of innovative pemmes: it is the tenth region; Galicia, 194. In product innovation and processes: place 15 for the North of Portugal against 189 in which Galicia is located. Or in commercial trade mark applications: position 19 for the North of Portugal against post 89 of Galicia. This comparison with the northern region of Portugal perfectly reflects the delay of our autonomous community in R+D+i. Don't go that way, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, don't go that way. That's how we're doing. The Galician Union only executed 25% of the European R & D funds, of which it spent 21.9 million, when the target for 2018 was 89 million. This is an example of how in Galicia the games dedicated to research and development are the ones that accumulate most delays in execution or directly do not run. R+D is the worst executional scope of Feder, and this cannot be, that can't be! [[Applause]] The European Union has already warned the Galician Union. I read textually: "It is necessary to increase the pace of spending execution and increase the dynamisation of private investment that combines public aid in research, development and innovation projects." They can't be clearer. Clear, clear! Members and Members of the People's Party, these data from the European Union are demolition. I hope they want to see him. If they don't want to see it, it's because they're not interested in Galicia moving forward in R+D+i, and they're going to make a very serious mistake. To place R+D+i on an axis of economic growth, we would have to start some basic points, such as a bi-annual planning. To that end, in the next two budgetary exercises, public funding levels in R & D+i — in staff spending chapters, real investment and capital transfers — must be increased to ensure a secure financing which represents a percentage of the public revenue for the Spanish and European average. The Union should establish a multi-annual commitment to ensure the normalisation and fulfilment of all the actions provided for in the various autonomous research plans — postgraduate scholarships, research projects, talent-gathering programmes — both in terms of the deadlines for their calls and their resolution.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u185	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u186	The Autonomous Government of the People's Party must develop, in the Galega Innovation Agency, mechanisms that allow contracts, programmes, and the corresponding biannual budgets, with strictly scientific criteria and with the necessary autonomy. The Galician Union would have to aim to catalyze a digital transformation that drives employment, industry development and economic revitalization. Digital transformation is one of the most urgent challenges our society is facing right now, because of the importance of data in all areas of economic and social activities. Invest in R+D+i, People's Party gentlemen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u187	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Monserrat Prado Cores and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia to achieve a collective agreement worthy of staff of the foundations of biomedical research in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u188	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u189	Very good night. Let's keep talking about research, and now we'll have a practical case. This initiative that the BNG brings here today we moved it because it did not bring the personal investigator of the three biosanitary foundations of Galicia: the Fundación Biomédica Galicia Sur, the Fundación Profer Nóvoa Santos and the Fundación Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria de Santiago de Compostela. Representatives of the Galaga Platform of Workers in Health Research, formed by the business committees of these three foundations, met with the BNG and with other political groups to expose the labour situation that these staff suffer, in demand for support so that from the Health Council it would agree to unlock negotiations to achieve a dignified collective agreement. [[plagtis]] They need a collective agreement because, after almost 20 years of the foundation of these foundations — worth redundant — they never had and remain without a collective agreement. We're talking about five hundred and five hundred professionals who have their work rights under minimum. As I said, they have no collective agreement and are under any company that applies only the Staff Regulations of Workers. I have to admit that I don't know any company with a volume of workers like this one -- of 500 people -- that I don't have a collective agreement. And what's the situation? That 90% of the staff are possible. And of what has stability, practically none belongs to the people who do research. They've been in chains for years; some people have been in temporary contracts for 20 years, in constant law fraud. The first generation of staff investigators from Galicia's public biosanitary foundations will retire without ever having access to a single stable contract. They'll end their entire working life with temporary contracts. Of course, from BNG we think this is a real insult. It's neoliberalism that is elevated to its immense power. We're not talking about pocket people, nor are we talking about people who are still studying. We're talking about adult people who are developing their careers, very highly qualified staff, and who are doing specialized work with wages at the minimum inter-professional wage level. And I'm going to talk about clear data. Gross salaries: a higher laboratory technician, 15,000 gross euros; a higher degree in chemistry, pharmacy or health, 16,500 euros gross per year; a doctor or doctor, 19,000 euros gross per year. I think these are numbers that should make anyone want to turn red about the needs of research in our country. And what do they claim? For what I said: a collective agreement that collects rights, collects obligations and duties, establishes the regulation of the day, days off, vacations, payrolls, category structure and definition of the research career; in short, it eliminates the conditions of precariousness in which they are found. At the BNG we consider this to be an essential step towards ignifying the professional work of these people who are involved in health research, because it is essential to look after the investigator's staff because — as has been said here in the previous initiative — they are a fundamental pillar of the system. If you don't dignify the people who do research, you can't dignify the research. About a year and a half ago they were able to start negotiations to achieve this collective agreement; they achieved stable working conditions for the whole collective and were making progress in some respects, but negotiations have been crippled since June. What would have to be, in principle, an impasse because the summer season came and because there were elections in July -- and from there it had to be derived the conformation of a new government -- is in practice becoming a sine die paralysis. Five months after this paralysis, the negotiating table was not reconvened. The Health Counsellor, in front of the Minister of Health, undertook to convene the negotiating table. In the morning he said he'd do it as soon as he could. From BNG we believe there is no justification for this delay. They demand to move forward in what remains pending, that it is not a "traffick" or an agreement that is defined on the basis of bass agreements approved in other parts of the state; they demand that it be a negotiation without red lines and a dignified agreement; they demand that there be a negotiation with negotiating capacity from Greek reality, which is their own and specific and with specific needs. Of course, at BNG we believe that this agreement is necessary for the professional recognition they deserve, and that it must also be accompanied by a minimum economic recognition. Of course, we can't have professionals who do such important work as research with wages like those I related a moment ago. We can't be training people so they will either emigrate or be exporting knowledge because here they don't have a minimum of conditions to develop their vital projects. It is — I insist — to dignify those who are so that they don't leave — because they're marching — to be able to capture new talent, to recognize work and to allow to develop vital projects. We believe that we have to do this because it is necessary for each of the researchers and researchers — from an individual point of view — but also for the country as a whole. If the pandemic of the coward-19 showed something, it's that an economic model based on the services — before it was based on the brick — makes us tremendously vulnerable, makes us tremendously dependent. An economic structure based on the services sector, disconnected from R & D+i, has dramatic consequences for the country. And the lack of innovative fabric leaves us at the mercy of the economies that make that bet. If in the entire health system this crisis has revealed the enormous difficulties that exist, in the field of research I think it has also done so very clearly. It has already been mentioned here that research without investment is not possible, and the level of investment in research in Galicia is really empirical, 0.94% of GDP, far from the average state — which, of course, is not to throw rockets — and far from Euskadi or the European average. The serious thing is that in Galicia you invest little, but the most serious thing is that this situation is going to get worse; that is, you invest little and, above all, you invest less in other places where you invest. With which, when one stays still and others move forward, it turns out that we retreat a lot more. That's the situation that Galicia is in. That's why bet on a model based on the knowledge economy needs to value people who practice it. And the first step has to be to respect the people who investigate, because what can't happen in the country is headlines like these that we're seeing in the press these days. Headings that say, "They deny us projects because of our instability." This is about people who work in one of the foundations of the South Galicia Biomedical Foundation, who make statements in this direction. Also, Galicia can't afford a headline like this: "The promoters of the Welsh vaccine regret the lack of support from the Galician Union." We cannot afford that the project of research of the vaccine against the coward-19 designed in Galicia, and that is about to pass to animal trials, does not receive any subsidy from the Galician Union. These are realities and we could bring a lot more, which, of course, is -- I insist -- a collective drama for people who work in these conditions, but it's also a drama for the country. That's why we bring this initiative here, so we demand that the negotiating table be called up immediately to reach this collective agreement of the biomedical health research foundations in Galicia; that the Union is clearly involved in getting the terms of this convention closed before the end of 2020, in which the professional categories, the research career, decent working conditions, stability, pay conditions are reflected, I think it's not too much to ask for. After twenty years of existence of biomedical foundations, it seems to be a really minimal issue. The third point of our initiative is to appoint one or a representative for this negotiation, which has decision-making capacity and which is part of the Health Council. It does not seem to us that we are hiring a Madrid consulting firm to negotiate an agreement that has to be based on reality and on the needs of the people of Greece, which has to be incardinated in the working conditions of this group of 500 people — I insist, five hundred people — we are not talking about an anecdotal issue — and which has to be realized once and for all because it seems to us more than just. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u190	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u191	Thank you, President. Good night. Speaking of research in Galicia — practically anywhere in Spain — has a difficult component. I usually put down a few particular cases, but there's one that gets me a lot of attention. Look, it's called Toño and it's from Velle; she, Rocío and it's from my province of Pontevedra. They are very good researchers, with doctoral theses, who have made biology and who work here in Santiago, around the Santiago Clinic, about cardiology issues — I'm not a specialist in their research facets. They work, above all, to avoid sudden heart problems. They're making progress. They are very powerful groups — you know we have powerful groups. They were chained between the two, probably between eight and ten contracts, but never, in any case, a year. When they read the thesis, one of them couldn't chain any more contracts. And after a few months of signing — almost, almost, for months, because the group's funding would no longer allow — they decided to emigrate. They emigrated to the centre of Europe. The first one they were asked in the research group — in which he did an interview — was that as it was possible this country — our country — was allowed the luxury of wasting talent and money on training researchers and sending them out. To form a university doctor, depending on the areas, let's say it costs about 45,000 or 50,000 euros. In some areas it is more — especially in biomedical areas — and it may exceed EUR 50,000. We added, after that, every year you work after, investment in material... you'd be surprised. They worked in Holland, Belgium, with offers in Germany, Austria... the question is that they didn't get the chance to return. They have three daughters today. We were talking about demographic impulse this morning, and this is also a demographic impulse. They have three daughters — which, by the way, I don't know how many languages they speak, which is a wonder, but they live outside. The smaller one is not at the age of moving easily; the larger one has his social groups. It's very hard for them to move their lives. Why? Because this country kicked us out, threw us out. Why? Because we have a country that isn't yet able to understand that investing in R & D is investing in a generation, it's investing in a change in a production model. These are things we usually say, but governments don't, they don't. This is the problem of research. Today there's a debate here about research and the conditions of researchers. The biomedical research foundations in Galicia have no work agreement for researchers. I'm probably the greatest research talent we can hold on to today to overcome the pandemic. There's a good deal of that talent in private companies, and some of them are doing a very powerful job. But in biomedical research we probably have the greatest talent of health research. They don't have a job deal! This can't be a decent country. They don't have a job deal! The researchers in which we are depositing the progress of research, to whom we deliver the ability to solve the serious problem we are living, have to emigrate or have to remain under very precarious conditions if they want to live in Galicia, or if they want to come back. It was assumed here, not many months ago, of a great program to attract investigative talent. Five squares! That's right, he gave to more media advertising pages than to research squares that went back to Galicia. We have a problem with this system. It is true that the budgets presented this year increase the starting point for health research; in percentage terms, in a powerful way, with regard to what existed. Yes, we came from far below. And we've come to see that in the last two years, the health research trip from the Health Council, to 621B, has dropped 11.5%. Now it's getting bigger, it's true. This year's largest increase is also the Ministry's, 59.4%, for research in Spain — especially focused, of course, on the fight against cowardice. It's also true that he was low. Allow me to advertise. It's true that it's low, and also that no government has really invested in real investment, but if you take the standardized chart ten years ago, fifteen or twenty years ago, it only goes up when you rule the Socialist Party. This is also a reality from which we must be conscious. We have a problem with R & D, and we have to believe in this system. R & D doesn't yield tomorrow, and probably doesn't seem to give any less votes tomorrow. But we need to believe in this model and it's not good to say it systematically. The researchers who are working in Galicia's leading medical research don't have a job deal. For many years they haven't had a job deal. Not much ago, a member or a member of the People's Party — I don't remember — said — I do not remember whether in the plenary or the Health Committee: "That doesn't mean they don't have decent working conditions". Man, what less! Even so, you'd have to know if it's really a good condition not to have a job deal, because that's a problem to solve when there's a job problem. Why are they clinging to? Nothing, nothing! So let's stop filling our mouths with how much we bet we don't know what, or how much we do. They're marching, not Cuba or Venezuela, which is the easy joke some of the Members have made here. No, that's not it. It's just that this country isn't investing in the things it owes, and, therefore, that's what we want to add to. We received these researchers, we talked with InvesGal, with Platgis, with the workers and workers of the biomedical foundations, and we fully shared this initiative. We've registered a similar one and, as it could not be otherwise, we're going to vote in favour of it. These are the groups that are going to solve a lot of problems. We asked them, during the debate, during the discussions, during the meetings, many topics about which their assessment was, about whether they really should belong to foundations, about fully integrating themselves into the public system, about public-private agreements for the advancement of some research technologies. All this is really interesting debates, complex, with nuances, with edges. But they said, "No, no, we don't want to debate this, that's a debate of what we're no longer convinced we can even give. We just want to talk about the agreement. Because if you talk about everything, you won't solve this." And this was your request: they just wanted a labor agreement, a labor agreement! They're university doctors, biomedical research workers, and they just want a job deal. Is it really possible that Galicia doesn't have an agreement for these people, who are around five? Is that really possible? [[Applause]] I really hope they can give me an explanation. Because I don't understand what's going on. It is true that there has now been a pandemic; but in the previous nine years, no. It's also true that signing an agreement takes five minutes, eh!, five minutes! Because to write it, we don't have to make meetings that put us in danger of virus infection. Signing it takes five minutes. So the pandemic was worth an excuse. Especially knowing that those who were previously promised that everything would be arranged — with this game that someone promises and then there's always a boss who says no, that it doesn't appear at the meetings and that it can be blamed, that it's a very common game — today is, curiously, the health adviser. So now it must be that there's an intermediate boss to blame the health adviser -- who used to be the one who blamed the other, and eventually there was no agreement. This is the situation, and this debate is not going on. We will support this initiative. We think it's indecent that this still exists. We know that there are mistakes of all governments in many places, but we also believe that it is necessary to remember that there are governments that really bet, there are governments that bet less and there are governments that bet nothing. Yeah, they all say they do a lot. We are going to support her and hope that the People's Party will vote in favour. We're convinced he will, because otherwise it would be very difficult to explain why not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u192	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, you have the floor to Mrs. Amigo Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u193	Good afternoon, or good night now. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we all agree that the importance of research is fundamental in societies, and that is how to request and obtain information. Thanks to research, societies are moving forward. Scientific research plays a very important role for society today, because, thanks to it, it has advanced in many respects. And it is important to value the great importance of research, because — despite living in advanced societies — there is a lot of ignorance about this subject and there is someone who falls into the mistake of thinking that scientific research is not of great use to us. We all agree that research is the fundamental basis of knowledge. Ladies and gentlemen, governments have the responsibility to promote research, teaching, innovation and scientific and technological development. Here you will find a strong wager from the German Government. But we're going to talk about health research, which is why the Greek Government is also firmly committed. And it's important to note that at this time of pandemic, the Welsh biotechnology sector leads about twenty researches on the copper-19, which range from the vaccine to the treatment, the detection of the virus, or even the manufacture of material. In the same news that was commented here, it also comes that GAIN has just invested three million euros. In our autonomous community, the execution of health research is structured — as has been said here — around three biomedical research institutes: the Santiago Institute of Health Research (IDIS), the Institute of Biomedical Research (INIBIC) and the Institute of Health Research (IISGS). The research groups of these three major institutes make it possible for them to carry out most of the health research actions in Galicia, which have their center in public hospitals. And it's important to note that, at the same time, these researchers from the institutes achieve synergies with researchers from the Greek universities. Therefore, the provision and budget of health research are mainly found in these centres. In Galicia we have two institutes that were accredited by the Carlos III Institute of Health. In particular, the Santiago Institute, in the year 2010 – also believed in 2015 – and that of the Coruña, in 2014. He's working on Vigo's accreditation right now. This is an important element, since official accreditation granted requires confirmation of the existence of researched basic and clinical groups, as well as the existence of an adequate infrastructure to support this research. In Galicia there are over 150 research groups around these three institutes, which are structured in different areas: oncology, genetics and systems biology, endocrinology, neuroscience and epidemiology and public health. These groups carry with them a network that includes about 1,500 researchers, with exclusive or shared dedication to the clinic, in addition to staff and support staff. Despite economic difficulties, in recent years the German research institutes have significantly increased their sources of funding. In 2009, the revenue they collected was the fourth part of what is currently being obtained, which clearly indicates the momentum that biohealth research is having in Galicia. But this isn't really important. Of course, the quality of researchers from these research institutes is the reason why this increase in fund-raising was allowed, but the fundamental thing is that the publication of scientific articles has multiplied, with a greater impact factor; in recent years the number of clinical trials has doubled and observational studies have been quintupled; and essentially, steps have been taken to transfer research results to citizens, with already significant number of patents obtained and licensed. With regard to collective agreements, seven health research foundations existed in Galicia in 2009, and none of them formalized any collective agreement with their workers. The first thing we've been working on was to recast and unify that dispersal to group it up into the three research foundations that exist right now, to strengthen structures and take advantage of synergies with universities and research institutes. Right now, for the first time since these research foundations exist, they are negotiating specific collective agreements for each of them. The counselor said it, precisely this morning, in his intervention. You, Mrs Prado, indicate in the text of the GNP that there have been researchers working for more than 20 years on temporary contracts. It's true, Mrs. Prado. It's true this recognition. And it is also true what the spokesman of the Socialist Group said here. All the governments are engaged in this. But I repeat again that for the first time since they exist, they are working on an agreement. In any case, it is wrong to identify the existence of a collective agreement with which these working conditions are worthy. There are a lot of entities and companies that don't have their own collective agreement, and that's not why workers are mistreated, and they have working conditions that are appropriate. On the other hand, you also say in the GNP: "Let a work agreement be closed in which pay conditions must be considered to be based at least on the proposal made by the committees." This does not seem to be moderately reasonable, and not because of which the conditions proposed by the committees — I do not come in or out of what the committee is going to propose — but because this is not a negotiation, it seems better to impose an agreement. It is therefore unreasonable for you, on the one hand, to propose that a negotiating table be held and, on the other hand, that criteria only be taken from one side to negotiate. There's no need to negotiate for that. I'll tell you again that for the first time you're working on the goal of formalizing collective agreements in these entities and that different important aspects are being elaborated on the rights and duties of workers; among others, the work schedule, the schedule, vacations, the permit regime, the surpluses, the representation rights... we believe that you should continue to work on it, but logically, through negotiation, because it's the way in which these agreements are established, and not through taxation, which seems to be what you propose. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u194	Thank you very much, Mrs. Friend. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Prado Cores has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u195	The truth is we're coming at eight and a half o'clock in the afternoon and one, frankly, doesn't know what to think about. I'd like to know what the People's Party is going to do, whether it's going to vote in favour of this initiative or not, because it left it a little indefinitely. I hope you correct it, because the People's Party Member says that having an agreement does not guarantee anything. Having legal frameworks doesn't guarantee anything, but it's a great help. Help me if there's a law establishing rights, establishing rights, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party! [[Applause]] It seems like a barbarity to you that the initiative that the BNG is presenting says that the amounts are not below those of those who are negotiating. And it's just that those amounts that they pose are very little higher than I mentioned. Madam President, I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, to look at: EUR 15,000 for a superior laboratory technician, EUR 16,500 — brutos, er!, brutos! — for senior graduates or 19,000 for doctors... do you think this Parliament can deliver the message that something can be negotiated under this?Oh, my God! Can you negotiate something under this?Oh, my God! Do you think this is an imposition?Oh, my God! [[Applause]] Imposition of what?Oh, my God! What are you talking about? You've grown tired of talking here about the "goodness of research", that societies are moving forward... but research is not progressing alone, it makes people needing minimum and dignified conditions, Madam! Mi-ni-mas! At least! That's what they're asking for, an agreement where rights are recognized under minimum conditions. They're talking about minimum conditions. And, look, you always have excuses. Anyway, the question is to leave people in absolute precariousness and swallow anything. A year ago, on November 14, BNG brought this Parliament a very similar initiative, because they were already negotiating. And we asked him to unlock it because it was locked. What did the People's Party say? No, man, no! Because yesterday there was a meeting and it's done! It's on tape!"Yesterday there was a meeting and it's done!" And a year later it turns out not to. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] A year later, no, because we're not going to impose some conditions... you have to take it almost for a joke, because it's so serious the story, it's so serious, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party... We're talking about 500 people, about staff of excellence, qualification...! And you take for granted the working conditions in which you have to develop your performance! Then you still dare say that you can capture resources and get projects ahead. Does it cost you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? At almost exclusively the cost of your back, it's the cost of your back! Of course, the BNG brings this initiative here so we can launch a clear message that research is fundamental, but if it really is and if you support the people who do that research. And it's clear that the People's Party at the Galician Union is mistreating the investigator's staff, mistreating the investigator's staff. I hope that, from here on in the morning, as there is a night in the middle of it, they will consult with the pillow and have the dignity to vote in favour of this initiative. Look, the current health adviser was the representative of the board at the negotiating table before he was appointed counsellor. So you must know very closely what the situation is. He should be aware of that situation and have a little bit of the delicacy of convening a negotiating table. We're also not asking here to devote the board budget to this collective, but a negotiating table is called. Here's how productive they are and what good projects do. Yeah, the person who came in for InversGal said something that should take their colors away too. He said that, despite the limited investment in research in Galicia, it turns out that they have the sixth position in scientific production and economic return and the fifth position in patents granted. That's for the good work, to keep them out. And it turns out that the People's Party can afford the luxury that we form these professionals, that they are highly qualified and then allow them to develop their work in these labor conditions and also social conditions. With no working conditions and no decent wages, there is no capacity, no possibility, to develop decent life projects. I said in the first intervention a question, and I will also finish with it. It's about to consolidate the theme that a whole generation of public foundation investigators is going to retire without ever having access to any stable contract. This is an insult and is, of course, unacceptable to these people. And it's unacceptable for a country to have them in these conditions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u196	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u197	I hope you think and tomorrow you'll be able to have some decency and vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-24-DSPG013.u198	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. We'll hold the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning.
