ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u1	The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of the Galician Parliament on January 30, so we do not proceed to its reading. Mr. David Rodríguez Estévez has justified his non-attendance to this plenary. And I also communicate — as we have done in the previous plenary session — that Paula Vázquez Verao and Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, for reasons we have already known, have their votes — in particular, in Mrs Olalla Rodil and Mr Luís Villares Naveira, respectively. So let's start. Provision of promise or oath to abide and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute of a new Member's autonomy in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u2	As a preliminary point, we proceed to the promise or oath to abide by and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute for the Autonomy of Galicia of the new Mrs. Maria Dolores Fátima Candedo Gunturiz. By complying with Article 7.1 of the Rules of Procedure, I shall apply for the promise or oath to comply with and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute for the Self-Government of the new Member. And we'll do it according to the formula of answering "yes, I swear," or "yes, I promise" to the question of this presidency. I would ask you, Madam, to answer the question I am going to put to you. Mrs. Maria Dolores Fatima Candedo Gunturiz, do you swear or promise to abide by the Constitution and the Statute of Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u3	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u4	Thank you. So, once you give the promise, you acquire the full condition of the honourable Member. Thank you very much and welcome to Parliament. [[Applause]] Change in agenda development
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u5	And now we're still on the agenda. There is a change that has already been communicated to all Members through the spokespersons, so in particular we first put up the appearance — point 3 of the agenda — and then the legislative texts. Comparison of the Health Counsellor, on his own request, to report on improvement actions in the comarcas hospitals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u6	To make this appearance has the word of the Health Counselor, Mr. Jesús Vázquez Almuína.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u7	Good morning, Mr. President and ladies. First of all, I would like to thank the president and all the spokesmen for the possibility of this change, which is due to urgent communication by the Ministry to hold a meeting in Madrid today of all health advisors for the problem of coronavirus. So thank you very much. I also want to welcome the new honourable Member and wish him every success here too. I compare this February 4th, World Cancer Day, on my own request, to talk about improvements in comarcial hospitals. The incorporation of comarcal hospitals into the health care structure in Galicia began thirty-four years ago. On May 14, 1986, the hospitals of the Navy and Monforte began to gradually join together all the others. In Galicia we have seven comarcal hospitals that, as a whole, serve nearly 440,000 people — it would be the largest city in Galicia — compared to the 370,000 we had ten years ago — a difference of 9%. In the Coruña area, the Virgin Hospital of June; in Santiago, the Barbanza Hospital; in Lugo area, the hospitals of the Navy and Monforte; in Ourense area, the hospitals of Verín and the Barco; and in Pontevedra area, the Hospital of Salnés. The idea of its creation was the same thing that persists after all these years: bringing the services closer to citizens in search of greater accessibility and equity. The amendment of the Health Act 1/2018, of April 2, as everyone knows, represents a blockage for the comarcas hospitals by creating the health districts within the health areas. All hospitals are the center of the district, so they are equal in legal consideration to central hospitals. A structure, an organization, which is a guarantee of equity and makes it possible to provide complex services in these centres, which prevents patient displacements and draws attention to their places of residence. The evolution of attendance in these districts was different according to various factors: the age of the center, the number of citizens to be cared for, the social characteristics of these or the distance of the central hospital, among others. But in all cases growth in services, in professionals, in equipment and in infrastructure is a constant. In 2019 alone, 24,541 surgical interventions were carried out in the Galician comarcas hospitals, 509,172 diagnostic tests, and 564,492 external consultations. And also with spectacular results: the surgical waiting list is between 43.8 — from hospitals — and 31.2 days of delay. They are the best in Galicia and logically also in Spain. And the query waiting list is between 42.4 days and 27.7 days -- even better data -- I would like to express special thanks to all the workers in the comarcas hospitals of all professional categories, who have made and continue to make possible the magnificent health care of their neighbours, as well as to the professionals who from other centers travel to the comarcas to enrich and complete the assistance. In the following minutes, I will describe examples of improvements made since the opening of each of the comarcas hospitals. Obviously, I'm going to analyze examples and not the set, because it would be impossible, given the temporal limitation we have. The Virxe da Junqueira Hospital, which, as you well know, belongs to the health area of Coruña and Cee, is home to 37,440 people. In February 2018, the expansion of the dialysis Service was carried out, with an investment of more than 500,000 euros. The surface of the unit was doubled, which went from 90 to 188 square meters, which allowed the care posts to pass from 4 to 14. It currently serves 24 patients — logically with a significant decrease in displacements of chronic patients who need to be cared for three times a week. There are also specific consultations on endocrinology, rehabilitation. The surgical area was renewed with lamps, ultrasounds and new surgical tables. Sterilization reform has been carried out. The phototherapy light delivery room was donated for newborns, weight-to-baby scale, rolling base paritory lamp. And the Emergency Service provides you with a new medical and patient information room. In equipment, in recent times we have increased them with tensiometers, scales and heights of adults, pulsioximeters, holter, maps, CO2 gas equipment in Dixestivo, new ultrasounds in Urology and Rehabilitation, campimeter, ophthalmological biometric ultrasound, digital camera, facostimulator and vacuum cleaner in Ophthalmology, new BIPAP-CPAP equipment and other box monitors in emergency observation. All of this, as we see, is the increase in services, the increase in spaces, equipment and personnel. In activity, in 2019 we speak of 5.1,150 diagnostic tests, 65,062 consultations and 3,330 interventions, activity that has been maintained or increased in recent years. On the waiting list is one of the best data we have in Galicia, which means, as I said before, that Spain's sound too. It's the first one in the delay of consultations, 27.7 days, and the third one in surgical waiting, 34.8 days. In the area of Santiago and Barbanza, we have the Barbanza Hospital, which serves 62,869 people. Currently performing and constructing a new emergency service. The first phase of enlargement to the outside is already completed, and by 2020 we will complete this magnificent allocation — possibly around May or June. Among the new surgical techniques implemented last year is the intervention of laparoscopy in colon cancer. Rehabilitation also has new benefits in this center, with a pelvic floor unit, shoulder school and shock waves. There is also the expansion of the gym and the provision of telemeters, manometers, bicycles, shock waves, defibrillator and microwaves. Dialysis shifts were also increased — like the next phase we did in Cee — to pass not only on Monday, Wednesday and Friday, but also on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday; logically with increased staff and, above all, with a greater number of patients treated. In human resources, we strengthen the medical supplies of the Emergency Service and also the admission service. A new laboratory was opened with new equipment, improvements in surgical, sterilization and endoscopy. Equipment: in external consultations, tallimeter scale, patients' transfer table, cryogenic gloves; in consultation with dixative, CO2 inflator, videocolonoscopes, videogastroscopes; in consultations with otorrin, fibroscopes; in the Emergency Service, multiparametric monitor, electrical therapy chairs, digital tensiometers, stemmeter scales; in paritorial, microwave, humidifier; and in the Operphanes, six optics for these surgeons. And the hospital equipment is also reinforced: ultrasound, probes, tensiometers, scales, fibroscope. The activity at this center was in 2019 of 77,086 diagnostic tests, 90,598 consultations and 3,827 surgical interventions, and with a wait of 36.8 days in surgery and 42.2 days in consultations. The Monforte Hospital — within the area of Lugo, The Navy and Monforte — serves 42,043 people, with a population decrease in the last ten years of approximately 14%. Professionals — some 28 more professionals — have increased. We started different services with the consequent increase in staff. As I said, these 28 troops, in addition to opening up these new services, have enabled the existing ones to be strengthened. In addition, we also have a few months of medicalized ambulance; hospitalization at home with an optional and nurse; oncology and oncohematological day hospital—so that the patients of this region no longer have to move to the place to be diagnosed and cared for—; allergology; also nursing consultation in endocrinology and nutrition—specific to this area in oncology patients—; implantation of the base of 061 within the hospital; postal emergency consultation; consultation of infectious pathology of internal medicine; the pharmaceutical care program to socio-sanitary centres and occupational therapy for children in early care, which also leave, logically, to move to Lugo; internal medicine was enhanced with optional, pharmacy; and in the emergency service, hospitalization and pool, with nurses and TCAE; also ophthalmology, surgery and xine. All these services have increased professionals. And as far as infrastructures are concerned, we improve hospitalization; work for the Oncohematological Day Hospital; improve and expand the areas of external consultations and cabinet; improve the pathological anatomy area; we also install a biomass boiler and other investments that are not directly health-related but also important for care. Prior to the start of the work of the first phase of the master plan, we perform various actions to condition the services and units that occupy the space in which that first phase of the director plan will be carried out, which I will then comment on. In 2019, 3,377 surgical interventions, 70,922 diagnostic tests and 93,977 consultations were carried out. The results are also magnificent. In fact, in surgical waiting is the hospital with the least expectation of all, with 31.2 days. And, in consultation, 33.1 days is also among those who stand out. The Marine Hospital, which serves 65,665 people -- and had a population decrease of 8.9% -- donated 80 more professionals. We have set up different services and strengthened other existing services. Very important is the Oncohematological Day Hospital in consultation with oncology — as we were talking about a moment ago from the Monforte Hospital. The retina unit, in ophthalmology, and the glaucoma unit; a second room of endoscopy; also the Manchester selection in emergencies; consultation of infectious pathology; cervical pathology unit in glaucoma; ostomy query; pharmaceutical care program in socio-sanitary centers; program of attention to chronic patients in physiotherapy; and digitization of the clinical history archive. As I said, the existing services, such as the medical day hospital, home hospitalization and hospitalization — due to the increase in rooms with the new extension work — were strengthened, reaching a reinforcement of 10 nurses and 12 ACDAs. This is important, because we have often talked about that investment in work does not mean staff coverage, but clearly in these cases it is found in a very powerful way that it does. Consultations and cabinets were also reinforced in surgery, urology, anesthesia, digestive, endoscopy, laboratory, pathological anatomy, and pharmacy. And also in psychiatry for this attention to socio-sanitary residences. And, of course, also an important thing that is more and more necessary, which is a person responsible for the care quality of the center. As far as infrastructure is concerned, the largest investment in the master plan — what we were talking about now — was EUR 1,350,000. Then I'll detail the master plan, which is about 15 million euros. The opening of the oncohematologic day hospital and the pharmacy reform suggested an important investment of 162,000, but it also had to logically strengthen the staffing. We also act in the surgical area. The implementation of the Manchester triage led to a space reform. And there were a number of measures, as I say, that were pre-emptive to the phases of the master plan. Phase 1(a) of the plan director is already finished, with the extension of the hospital, which places a new entrance to the oncoholic day hospital, the exploration cabinet, the new area of consultations and new hospitalization units of new construction in the new building, which led, as I said, to a very important increase of staff to attend this new hospitalization. And phase 1(b) is currently running, it carries a new dialysis unit, administrative areas, and an end forecast in June 2020, in a few months. The investment in this first phase of the master plan was EUR 12.8 million, to which we have to add 2.5 of the equipment that logically carries the work. If we add what is the previous work to put in place this master plan — which, as I said before, was 1,350,000 — makes the investment in the Marine Hospital in recent years 16,650,000. And the activity of the Marine Hospital is a magnificent activity, it's a hospital with great activity: 134,958 diagnostic evidence, 112,000 consultations and nearly 5,000 surgical interventions. He also has good times to answer, as we said before. In fact, he has 43.8 days in surgery and 39.6 days in consultations. And I wanted to highlight, to set an example of how things are doing well, that with this structure and with these professionals, the oncohematological day hospital -- which started at the end of 2014 -- having data already for full months, has increased 88% of patients who are treated. Since the first year with full activity until the last year, 250 patients treated there — oncotoxic patients — have been treated at this time 471. As I said, it's an increase of 88%, which prevents these patients at a difficult time, with a cancer diagnosis, from being treated in their region. And there's an increase in the oncology query from 92.7%, from 2,680 in the first year to 5,164 in the last year. Therefore, we must congratulate and thank, of course, the work of the oncology service in the health area of Lugo, which is providing such coverage not only at Lugo Hospital, in HULA, but also at the two comarcal hospitals. The Barco Hospital serves 30,363 people, with a population decline in the last few years of 15%. In this hospital, we have consultations of oncology, nephrology, neurology, digestive, rheumatology, endocrine and dermatology, made by specialists who from Ourense Hospital travel when it's appropriate. And we've also started home hospitalization, HADO, which, as you know, is now being taken to the entire comarcal territory. The staff picture over the past five years has increased by 32 professionals. And in recent years, we have made different improvements, such as the reform of the emergency lab and improvements in the equipment of anesthesia, of xenophobia and obstetrics, of sterilization and also in the pharmacy, or also in the areas of oncology. The activity, as it is also evident, is a very important activity, of 39,000 diagnostic tests, 62,000 consultations and 2,191 surgical interventions, with a delay of 37.4 days waiting for surgery and 42.4 days for consultations. The Verín Hospital serves 26,230 people, with a 14% decline in population over the last ten years, and has consultations on oncology, nephrology, neurology, digestive, rheumatology and cardiology entirely by professionals, of which are the integrated services of the entire health area, which are moving to Verín. Also in general surgery, anesthetics and gynecology receive support from Ourense. It has had an increase in recent times of 48 professionals, both in voluntary and non-optional health personnel and in non-health care. In this hospital, activity is also an important activity: 55,410 diagnostic tests, 67,000 consultations and 2,042 surgical interventions. The queue list has a very good answer. With a surgical wait of 31.4 days is the second of all comarcas, and therefore the second of all hospitals in Galicia. Also in consultations, 30.6 days, it's the second. And finally, ending this summary in the area of health in Pontevedra and Salnés, the Salnés Hospital is a hospital that serves 73.201 people, with a decrease in population in the last ten years of 3.5 percent. This hospital began its activity in 2000, on December 18th, and at that time it had two professionals for consultation, who met 40 people that day in particular. Soon it's growing activity, logically, with all the services we have to cover. Right now, from the year 2008 to 2019, we've moved on to a global increase of 33%. We went from 262 professionals in 2008 to 350 workers, which means 88 more professionals. It's true that the management staff has decreased, which has increased from 4 to 2, but in the other professional categories have increased significantly. And logically there's been assistance improvements. It highlights the coverage of the entire district by home hospital units or also that this hospital is the only one on the Sergas network with IHAN certification, which, as you know, is the Humanization of Birth and Lactation Assistance Initiative, which is an initiative by WHO and Unicef. Since October 2019 a medical ambulance for Salnés has also been in operation, located in the emergency area. In the Plan Director of Salnés Commercial Hospital, 14 million euros were invested between work and equipment — a plan that lasted between 2009 and 2017, although we are at the moment in the final part. These works were: the third hospitalisation plant — 45% bed increment — a new emergency area — of course, it is now in the emergency areas with the largest surface area and with 39 sites compared to the 18 previously held — a new obstetric area — passed from a multipurpose bath room in 2008 to a total of 5 locations, 2 UTPR rooms, 2 multipurpose rooms and a recovery center—; a new surgical area, which went from 3 to 5 surgeons; a new postanestic recovery area of the day hospital; a new diagnostic area per picture. And as for the consultations, it went from 16 places in 2008 to 29 places today. Clearly, it's a great transformation of the center between when it started, in 2000-2001, and what we have right now. The activity is a reflection of all of this that I have just commented on. In 2019 there were 66,849 tests, 85,458 consultations and 4,800 interventions, around 5,000 already. Waiting list data is also magnificent, like all comarcas. In surgical waiting it's 37.4 days and for consultations, 36.2 days. This is the logically summarized exhibition of what has been the improvement since the beginning — especially in recent years. But in the second intervention I'll talk about the improvement projects we have for the next few years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u8	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u9	Good morning, gentlemen. Counsellor, as a preliminary question, cancer fights with R & D, with investments, not with pink ties. And it fights not just one day and with that gesture, but every day with the budgets. That's how you fight. And public health is enhanced by investments rather than health reforms that also lead to the privatization of research services, subjecting them to the interests of multinationals and not to the general interest, which should be a completely different one. Look, you're completely obvious why you're here. You are here because the Galician Union failed in its plans to dismantle comarcal assistance in comarcal hospitals throughout Galicia, and particularly because it suffered a spree defeat in Verín. He passed through Verin in a minute and a half. By the way, recognizing that they had a pioneer birth and breastfeeding program, and also endorsed by WHO -- the only one in Galicia -- they didn't have any lipstick to suppress the parent's service. If it's not because Galician citizenship is planting and planting towards you, they're still there. They pulled him back for an arbitrary, completely discriminatory measure, and you didn't count on the full resistance of citizenship, with everything that was going to happen. You're here today because the Galician Union had a policy of health abuse that was overwhelmingly challenged by Galician citizenship. He has no other explanation for the dismantling of comarcal health in Verín, as in other places to which I will now refer. But it is also accompanied by rural strangulation, because the reduction in services means a reduction in future expectations for the citizenship that lives in communities like Monterrey, but also in any of the other districts of Galicia that you are suffocating at the root of the health reform of 2017, which was, of course, challenged by the greatest manifestation — along with the other one that was against the Touro mine — of the last four years in our country. They are, in addition, measures in their department which produce fundamental discrimination against women in health care, and which generate or increase a risk of non-existent dentures, when the parenting service has been abolished in which they have now had to retreat. Well, I could explain something about this, right? Because you've come to realize what they've done, not what they're going to do, what they've done. Well, explain why that erratic decision is wrong. Look, you're here defeated, and you're defeated in Galicia with a correction that you had to do in every rule because, in view of your attempt to dismantle public health in rural, in view of your attempt to continue treatment of a healthy nature, in view of its strangulation of rural and its discrimination against women, a citizen who wanted care, who wanted public health, who wanted social justice and territorial justice, prevailed. Because we don't have enough of that hospitalocentric theory around seven major centers and the health desertification of the rest of the territory. No, people want something else. There is a struggle that shows awareness of public health, and that, in addition, has set up not only the health area of Verín -- health areas, as such, that you have made disappear -- but all the health areas of the country and all the districts of the country. The 2018 reform also led to the deepening of two ideas, in the basic idea of centralization of large hospitals, behind which is hidden a basic idea of privatization with a higher concentration of business volume and of purchasing and service management, the derivation to private structurally. You are unable to plan public health centres that structurally meet all the needs of the population and are already structurally supported in the private sector, so that they give up — not simply outsourcing — public health care by the Galician Union. And it's also based on this reform of 2018 in greater political control and a dynamics of hospitalocentrism that relegates primary care and the reinforcement of comarcas hospitals as close to citizenship. We thought that, as this was an appearance of propaganda, it would be something more extensive in the staffing of the comarcal hospitals — or in the claims — and, since we are in the election year, they would come here at least to make announcements to try to overcome the difficulties of the comarcal hospitals and which are continuously denounced by the citizen platforms in defense of public health, which are denounced by professionals and are denounced by users and patients. By the way, users, patients and platforms that you are now trying, once again, to censor. And this is unacceptable in democracy. That is, if you delete the pediatrician service, then users and users cannot say that you delete a pediatrician service, or that a doctor is missing because you don't cover the down, etc. That can't be said, that can be done, but that can't be said. And users and users can't complain, they can't put on a paper now saying: There's no pediatric service here because Galician Union doesn't cover a download. That censorship is unacceptable and is a sign of this government's decreptitude, which has already been ominous for our country, and also in health care; that, instead of meeting social demands, cannot avoid falling into the temptation of reprisals. As if someone still doesn't know, through an internal instruction, Sergas has been banned for a week now that you can put posters that talk about these things, posters that talk about the reality of what's going on. And they still have the nerve to say in that instruction that freedom of expression has limits, it has limits. Of course he has limits, of course he has limits! [[Murmurs.]] And the limit is not to be able to denounce Sergas' fallouts, not to be able to report health abuse, not to report rural strangulation, not to be able to denounce the situation in which women are left as a result of the economic decisions and health decisions of the Galician Union. Those are the limits to freedom of expression, to criticize the People's Party is the limit to freedom of expression. Well, no, ladies and gentlemen, we're in democracy and therefore public facilities aren't your brokerage and you have no right to do that. You come here to find out what they're doing in hospitals. And there's an enunciation here of what you've done, above all, in relation to cement. But much less — I don't know whether it'll perhaps save you as a letter for the second intervention, since when the others have less chance to replicate — about the staffing, about the provision of resources for the comarcas hospitals. It's necessary, it's necessary. Because, of course, there were parts in the Navy Hospital where it rained, just like in Verín. When it rained outside it rained inside, and then it was basic to fix it, it was basic. But apart from that, what is needed, above all, is health personnel — as well as non-health personnel who support the functions performed by hospitals — personnel, covered medical specialties, also management capacity — also suppressed by health reform —, well-equipped primary care, sufficient pediatricians, etc. Needs of hospitals. You're here talking about the good the city hospitals are waiting for. All right, and the non-structural waiting lists, the time that goes on since you go to the consultation and they tell you they'll call you for the diagnostic test until they give you the turn, all that time that doesn't appear on the waiting list, when you're going to make it public? When are you going to make all that situation public that leads to real data that puts us in line with the state, between the three worst autonomous communities? Yes, yes, non-structural waiting lists! You make up perfectly all the good you know and can structurally. And the non-structural ones, why don't we have official data? Tell us why. Because it doesn't matter, because reality would be different. Come here on your own and compromise to make them public. It's easy, isn't it? Well, it's compromised in that situation. As I have little time — you have unlimited but the rest of us are busy — I want to make several concrete references to several specific comarcal hospitals. For one thing, at the Hospital de Verín, in connection with the parlor and beyond the parlor. The first is that heavy joke of strengthened consent for certain health services. Why is there a need to lend — a party surely violating the Patient Self-Government Act, etc. — to the part of the informed consent a strengthened consent in relation to attendance at birth and birth of children in Verín? Why? Look, if the health care is the right one, there is no need for a strengthened consent on an assumption beyond responsibility. And if it's not the right one, what you can't do is offer the benefit there. Or something or something, but not the middle question that you intend to implement. So, rectify, if necessary, the improvement of care, particularly with health care personnel, and, if you think that you're not going to be well covered, do what you have to do. Aren't you dare to provide the service in normal conditions? We have the best professionals, we have the best service, you have the means to make that service work. There is a lack — as a result of the recovery of the service — of an incubator that allows for transfers, and the infirmary's nursing is insufficient. In hospital units — the speech of the Verín Hospital — there are no medical cars left; physiotherapists have a workload to double the service and they don't do it; there are infred services — which you haven't referred to — in dermatology, trauma, anesthesia, surgery, row; in emergencies it's better, and the ADDO service is also better. At the Valdeorras Boat Hospital — I have to go quickly — little reference has been made — I think none, in fact,. The citizenry went out this weekend on the street in the boat asking for better health services, which is specifically provided with the service. Yes, I know what you're going to say: No, no, we've already committed this hospital now, exactly you're walking me to... well, what have you done so far? what are the specific deadlines? what is the concrete improvement in primary care? Well, probably, it's nothing. Look at the specific demands of the staff board at the Valdeorras boat: there are deficiencies in specialties at the comarcal hospital...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u10	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u11	...in rehabilitation and physics; there's a problem that's not management, a problem of how the law has been reformed, and they're not being cared for, by the dispersion of the population, all the needs with the services you provide the service of the comarcal hospital; the entire primary care network, which is deficient, is overloading the comarcal hospital, etc. In Monforte, as no reference was made, non-sanitary services were lost. There are missing references of a structural nature in the engineering service, in the nursing service, in the laboratory technicians, in the pharmacy, in the cardiologist — notably insufficient — in the primary care network, fully dismantled, which entails an overload of the structural services, etc.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u12	Thank you, Mr. Villares, your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u13	I'm standing, like you, for the replica shift, to keep reminding...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u14	Thank you. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u15	Good morning. Good morning, Mr. Almuinha. Do you really come here in Parliament to give us a report from the prehistory of the comarcas hospitals to today? Do you really have a stomach to come here and make that story to us with everything you're falling? I really don't get out of my surprise. [[Applause]] I was listening and I — I told him frankly — it seemed to me that there was once a very faraway country, very faraway, a king and a counselor who were so good, so good, with their subjects who even kept the comarcas hospitals open and sent them things there. It's just that anyone who's listening won't understand what you're doing here today. Because you've come to tell a story that there are comarcial hospitals that send them... well, they're open. Because, look, what you didn't tell is that, with the integrated management decree that drove the People's Party in 2011, they started the path of undermining the comarcas hospitals. The amendment of the 2008 Health Act, the amendment of the year 2018, was added to which the specific health areas where these comarcal hospitals were inserted were eliminated. What you didn't tell was that they left the comarcas hospitals as appendices to the big hospitals, where they are concentrating and centralizing services and resources. The comarcal hospitals are like mere appendices. What you didn't tell is that all the steps you take are to consolidate that subordination of primary care and comarcal hospitals to large hospitals. You didn't tell him because he wants to hide reality. The reality is that they created a problem, that everyone told them no, that everyone was aware of what was the roadmap of the People's Party. And with all the measures that were taken, the roadmap was to lower those comarcas hospitals. So you on that road map have been eliminating resources, services, which I will then list as well. And they came to the point of eliminating the birthplace and the pediatric emergency ward at the Hospital de Verín. You created a problem and now you intend to come as saviors by solving the problem you created. That's the real reality. Yesterday, they reopened the birthplace of Verín and the pediatric emergencies, and Verín doesn't close. It's already incorporated into Galicia's history as an exhibition of more collective dignity, collective dignity of the neighbors and neighbors of Verín and the territory of Monterrey, who went out into the street and were closed and closed sixty-three days to force them to retreat. [[Applause]] And, of course, I am proud of conviction, for example, of resistance, of defending what is all of us, what is public and what is collective; in this case, I am proud of public health and quality, because you are acting continually so that this is not so. And for the same reason, this next Sunday, on 9th, they're going back out to the streets of Compostela thousands of Greeks and Greeks by forcing them and telling them that they have to rectify, and by defending public health and quality, a demonstration that obviously the BNG supports. It's useless, Counselor, that you come here to bring us a stadium. It's useless they're trying to put on a health pin of censorship. It's no use trying to numb the workers and the workers. It's useless that they want to stop you from visualizing what reality is. [[Applause]] It's useless that you try not to know what's already a cry. That plan of the People's Party against Public Health of Galicia, perfectly designed, premeditated, methodically executed, for it is already discovered and they no longer practically deceive anyone. I have to tell you something -- I'm telling you why you did a stadium here. Look, before, in the comarcas hospitals, there weren't even any professionals. Because you arrive here and say that at the Salnés Hospital, when it was inaugurated in 2000, there were only two external consultations. Of course, and before there was no hospital! I said it in case I didn't know, before there was no hospital. Of course, it's a little hard to hear how you can come here and do a storytelling for twenty or thirty years. Because, look, the reality of all the comarcial hospitals is that the staff paintings are infred — which is a demand for active and passively all of them. As for the case of Salnés Hospital, he was born small, he was born with fewer professionals than necessary for the area they have to care for. But it's just that, in addition, that's not being solved. There are demands on the nursing staff, which is insufficient; concealers, more than insufficient. It's a systematic complaint. Look, ever since EOXI was implanted in the Salne Hospital, the House of the Sea has been removed. The Sea House lab was eliminated and 50 people every day have to travel to the Salnés Hospital. They removed neurology and cardiology for most of the population they serve. They only serve the neighbours of Vilagarcia and Vilanova. And they only consult, there's no additional evidence, no urgency or anything. The rest of the county has to go to Pontevedra. They eliminated that, eliminated supplies, warehouse, computer services, human resources, the previous appointment no longer works in the afternoon, the analysis of outpatient samples is not, in the magnetic resonance, limited the number of stays. I can keep enumerating you how many questions were removed at the Salne Hospital. In fact, after years of demand for a medicalized ambulance for Salnés, in this last contest there is a medicalized ambulance for Salnés. That's right, downside, with a technician less than they were serving. This is going to be a problem. You're going to have a problem because you know that, to get to the sites and to do certain maneuvers, as RCP helps the nursing and optional staff, both are necessary. Besides, they eliminated a 12-hour ambulance that existed in Vilagarcia and that was necessary. So you're doing low-cost services for the county hospitals. At the Barbanza Hospital, the emergency service, its expansion, had to be completed in September, they promised it would be finished in September 2019. The second phase is not finished yet and two or three more are left. And you come here saying that it's the same for June 2020, a year later. And we'll see if that's true. What you don't say is that specialties, since the elimination of EOXI, are decided from Compostela. That means that, even though there are theoretically places that are at the Barbanza Hospital, professionals are in Santiago and go to Barbanza from time to time, every day a different professional. In ophthalmology there are four theoretically at the Barbanza Hospital, but the reality is that there is one and a half -- one and a half -- because it has a reduction in days. The other two are in Santiago. In urology, the same thing: from two professionals, one is retired and another is transferred to Santiago. It goes from time to time. That's the reality. As for the waiting lists, in traumatology, after the first consultation, after asking for a resonance for the second, it takes a year, wait a year, Counselor! We can talk about the number of people who are constantly drifting to Santiago to enter older people — which is one day yes and another too — people who, of course, have no family with transportation to go there, who have no economic means, who have no companions, which turns out they can't enter Barbanza Hospital because there's no ability to do so even though the hospital is prepared to be able to do it because the structure was left. You know there are two terraces in the back and you can do it, but you don't want to dimension the comarcas hospitals so they can serve the reference population. We can talk about the cleaning service. What cleaning service is being offered at the Barbanza Hospital, Mr. Almuña? They just took out a contest where they eliminated one of the two people who were contemplated on the night shift. There's only one cleaning person for an entire hospital in the night shift, and in the evening shift they don't replace when there are absences. There's a person for emergencies, deliveries, planting... and they're responsible for lowering the exits, waiting for the funeral to arrive. Do you think with a person during the night shift can you be providing a minimum quality service? Do you really believe it? [[Applause]] Let's keep going. In Verin, in rheumatology, since 1 September, 1,700 people derived from Ourense; 500 planned interventions from Ourense. "A birth is not an infarction," that is his sentence of order, a delivery is not an infarction. But the dermatological problems we suppose are something more than stains, right? There are melanomas, carcinomas... a population is supposed to be cared for. You know what kind of population this is. Many of these 1,700 people won't have a chance to go to Ourense, and they're not going. You know there's information that you're not going to Ourense for these consultations. Internal medicine. Since 2008 the hospital was opened at home. All right, which home hospitalization are you setting up at the boat or in Verín? You just said that for the whole county, a doctor and a nurse. 15-minute isochronas is what they've determined, that they move in 15-minute isochronas by a doctor and a nurse from Monday to Friday by office hours, from eight to three in the afternoon. And you say the whole area is full of attention. What are you talking about? What are you talking about? [[Applause]] They're lying in an overwhelming way. The rest of the time the CAP and primary care take care of. And in the meantime, you live on ads and live on press headlines.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u16	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u17	I, of course, don't know what they want to sell or who they want to cheat. In the boat, there's no longer any head of Internal Medicine, the chief of staff is already in full retirement. When he retires, what kind of capacity will the boat have? Are you going to leave the boat without the head of service and that depends even more on Ourense? I'll keep talking about what's left of me later. But, in any case, Mr. Almuña, I hope that you in your second intervention will be able to tell us something about the reality in which the comarcas hospitals in our country are, not the prehistory of these hospitals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the Joint Left Group, Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u19	Thank you, President. "From the point of view of the State, information is set up as one of the most comprehensive and sensitive public services, since it must be subject to the obligation to promote the common good in order to form sound criteria of opinion and to disseminate the most authentic consciousness of our country" — Decree of 15 February 1952 of the Ministry of Information. You may have come to appear on censorship at the health centers here today, Mr. Almuña. But I'd rather come and make advertisements for us. That Ministry of Information, that ministry of censorship, also had, I believe, a complaint for cutting the freedom of expression, of course, of public officials and civil servants. Today, unfortunately, we find ourselves with a Health Council that has made a decision that I think is quite contrary to democracy and to the free expression, of course, of the criticisms that staff or users may have in relation to their management — their own or that of any other counselor or adviser who may be in their place, Mr. Almuño. We have initially asked you to rectify this decision of censorship to the workers of the Galician Health Service. You may have come to talk about that pre-Censorship, but unfortunately today you come to make announcements. He might also have come to talk about the situation of primary care, the failure to comply with the agreements by which the strikes of the points of continuous care and primary care arose. He might even have decided to come to talk to us about this very serious news that the actions of the National Mechanism for Prevention of Torture are being extended in relation to the situation of mentally ill people at the Conxo Hospital. You know as much as we did that the Ombudsman opened up, through this National Mechanism for Prevention of Torture, and that two years ago you were here answering our questions. Unfortunately, however, today we know, thanks to the Galego Mental Health Movement, that this situation remains as well because of the absence of its commitment, the absence of the publication of a German mental health plan, which we have been claiming for ten years in this House. It's going to end the legislation and you're still in a situation that gives them absolutely just as it's being denounced by this Mechanism of Prevention of Torture that violates fundamental rights of people who are entering that institution. You might as well, since you come today with that claim or the commemoration of the cancer Day, come to talk about the saturation of the Oncology Service at the Vigo Hospital Complex. Why do the patients fall in love in the waiting rooms? Why do people with cancer have to wait for lack of medical personnel and obsolete machinery? Why are people being treated in a situation of physical and psychological vulnerability, how are people who are sick with cancer? I could have come to deal with serious and important matters within our public health. But he decides to come today to talk about the comarcas hospitals, which, of course, are important — we ourselves are asking about the situation of the comarcas hospitals in the past. However, he does not come here today to transfer the valuation — questionable, but it is his assessment — about the situation of the comarcas hospitals because he shows an interest in them, but because you're afraid. They are afraid of the demonstration next Sunday — which, of course, will be a success. They are afraid of the social mobilization of families, of the mobilization of women, and of that mobilization that we have come back here, we must thank those people who have been stoically closed inside the center, who have mobilized themselves and who even spent the end of the year there at Christmas, claiming a basic and fundamental right of health care, which, in that case, was the reopening of the parent. You're afraid and that's why you come here today to make this appearance by trying to transfer positive data about your management that try to demobilize a demonstration that — I insist — will be a success. I've got to get you something, Mr. Almuinho. That closure, this struggle for the reopening of the parlor, I not only assumed a milestone in the struggle for women's rights, for the rights of children and children, for the rights, finally, of a community to have equal public health care of conditions with the rest of the territory, but it was beyond. It wasn't just about the parity service, it's a fight between the men and women of the municipalities and the rural parishes, who are telling you that they have the same right as any other citizen in Galicia to have the same health care. That is an elemental thing, Mr. Almuña, which is a basic element of democracy in a country, which corresponds to the values of equity within a public health system. It's what you should probably be talking about today. We have already questioned him in the full past on this issue, and today we feel very much that it cannot be in the afternoon — of course the Interterritorial Council is also relevant — because today we bring a motion that we will debate in the afternoon to ask this Parliament what value the Union has to shield the right to health care in the parishes and in the rural councils. We're all the same, all the same, and we all have the same rights. And the pride of being a Welshman in our country is the same for a person who lives at the boat in Valdeorras, in Verín, in Vigo, in Coruña, in Cee or in Lalin. This has to be covered by access to basic rights and services, an element that is not being covered, because, despite the data you have offered here today — in some cases in any element — we have also pointed out in the full past, in the interpellation, that there were serious, very worrying deficiencies in the lack of equity in relation, for example, to this home hospitalization, to the internal medical services, elements that were discussed in this House by active and passive in relation to the risks of the population losing services in these comarcas hospitals. I believe that all the health spokespersons of the various parliamentary groups in this House, essentially the opposition, we have moved you in particular — in the Health Committee — to the loss of services that all these hospitals were suffering. But they didn't listen. It's now, because they're very scared, when they come here to talk about the situation of the comarcal hospitals. I would ask you, Mr Almuña, because you have not made it clear in the full past, that you would apologize and withdraw from this very event — if I may — which is that reinforced consent. In the past I asked him what it was like. You didn't answer and we had to record questions in writing. That's right, it works this way. I have to remind you that the Greek medical schools have just made this reinforced consent that you intend to impose in Verín unacceptable. You generate legal insecurity, insecurity in professionals and families. We don't understand why you attack women, families and professionals. I think this was an attempt to escape, to run forward, down stairs, to a problem they couldn't deal with. You guys had a problem, they didn't know how to solve it, and they decided to run down the coast, down the stairs, tripping and generating more problems. You cannot solve an error with more errors. So, you're still in time to remove this element, which is totally unacceptable, actually, as the medical schools say, which is against the norm that regulates the patient's autonomy and makes a difference between treatment to different people and among professionals. Attention to childbirth, and any other kind of health care, is the same in all the Greek centers, you don't need a different consent. You cannot attack equity, the basis of the health system that we all equip ourselves with and on which there was initially consensus on the different political colors. But nowadays it's no longer so, and it's not so because you've attacked the most basic of the public health system: that there's equity, that's the element that unites us all and everyone regardless of the municipality in which we live. I'm going to finish because I don't have any more time left and I'll continue on the next shift. I think you lost your chance to come here today to admit that the people who are going to protest next Sunday are absolutely right in the world, because you see endangering one of your basic rights as citizens, which is access to a public health system. You still have a turn where you can apologize, in addition to making announcements of numbers and enlargements that won't shut down social mobilization, you can remove the things that have been done wrong. It's still in time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u21	Good morning. Thank you. President, good morning. Good morning to all of you. Good morning, Counselor. Let me begin this replica tour by congratulating the people who will manifest themselves on Sunday. It's the first time that such powerful social mobilization has achieved results before mobilization. His appearance is his first victory — that of mobilization, not that of the Council — and therefore I think that congratulations are very relevant. You come here today, and we -- I know it -- thought it would be with some consistent announcement about the comarcas hospitals. Not at all! The Government's paralysis and the inability to react is already so obvious that not even with any announcement. You made here a shopping list. He retreated, and for a moment I thought they were going to appropriate the 1986 Health Act too, and that he was going to announce the comarcas hospitals to that wire. Well, here's a list. See if it's possible that you could tell us when it's the first improvement of the comarcas you announced. How long has it been? Because it's important that we all know what you're talking about — the system of choice, for example, that it's already incredible that it didn't exist in all places — that improvements that started many years ago. And you come here today, curiously today, curiously before the mobilization. How is your announcement, included signature and Baltar by, from the street health center — no land, eh! — curiously the day before the mobilization. Causality, no doubt! [[Applause]] Years of protests, years of claims, years of claims, no land... and the day before the mobilization, Baltar through, signing forward. There's no land, eh! And if it's for you, there won't be a health center. But you have to do that. And you come here to give a series of shopping lists of things, narrating them without a strategic line in general, basically saying they invest a lot. There are surgeries in the comarcas hospitals in this country that took months to be used because you put in the surgeries and it took you to put in some machine, even the camels, which took and remained there surrounded by plastic because there were surgical ones but there were no personnel to use them. There wasn't. There were sick people but there were no staff to use them. Every time you announce any improvements, the builders rub their hands. And it's good to do some work, but it's much more important to have staff. You haven't talked about realities that have been claimed here for a long time. Why do we have the problem that the trauma service and the rehabilitation service in Valdeorras now often have to be derived from Ourense? Why do we have a patient nurse ratio at the insumable Monforte Hospital, more than 30 people per nurse or nurse at night? Why? Why were you able to put pacers in Burela before and now you have to go to Lugo? Why are there court rulings in Barbanza talking about the human resources problem you don't listen to? Why do waiting lists increase there in some services? Why did half of the internal medical service at Salnés Hospital drifted to Pontevedra? Why did any Vilagarcia radio apparatus — from Salnés Hospital — drifted to Pontevedra when Pontevedra broke down and didn't show up again? Why all this? Why the reinforced consent in Verín? Here we have been debating quite recently on the issue of Verín. Not by the Government's will but by the opposition, but we have a lot of debate. And you used an argument that I want to ask you today: professionals are in charge. They even appealed — moving a little — to the Galego Council of Medical Colleges. Give them an explanation here today about what they tell you about the strengthened consent, see if it's going to be that the opposition doesn't mean it. They tell them that it is unacceptable, that it causes legal insecurity, that you are making a problem of alarm and insecurity by creating a figure that makes no sense — that is reinforced informed consent — and that it generates a feeling of weakness and insecurity, and therefore distrust in professionals. That's what we said, but forget that we said it. That's the reality of the county hospitals. But you're trapped, with no way out — like that film, it's a lazy film, by the way. They're trapped and no way out. There's no way out of this situation because they have the inability to transform. They left, they left, they only manage situations, they move from side to side — like pediatricians — to see if they can solve some situation. But we have a government unable to transform. And that in any political scenario is essential, in any area it is necessary, but deeply more in the health area. A Government needs to be a transformer, not that it is dedicated to moving papers from one side to the other, trying to use problems as excuses and not as challenges. We have problems in the health system that are not the fault of the People's Party. Many of the problems that exist in all health systems are not the fault of the People's Party, but the People's Party does not want to transform reality, only uses it as an excuse. He says: Ah!, there's a problem here that's general, because it's already justified, we don't have to look for a solution anymore. And so it happens after you despise everyone who criticizes them. Because you're specialists in looking for excuses. Are there problems with family doctors or are there problems with pediatricians? It's the Ministry's fault. Are there strikes? Trade unions are interested. Is there citizen mobilization? They're paying for buses and snacks. Are there any resignations from heads of service? It's because they don't know. "The chiefs of service didn't know," said their manager at Vigo. Is there a problem in Vienna with delivery? It's an empire of professionals. Does Medical College complain? They're corporateists. Is there an association of users that teaches appointments that say official waiting lists that publish you are a lie? They're anecdotes of the system. Did the parties complain? We're alarmists. Are there municipalities that have health centers over 40 or 40 years old? They always have the problem with the Town Councils, which don't put their lands in the health center, except on the Street that you signed the other day. Less in the street! [[Applause]] This isn't even an electionist. You're trying to answer to see if they can stop the mobilization. Let's be clear, this show has seven targets, seven targets! It's seven press releases, one in every county of a comarcal hospital. That's the intention. [[Applause]] Because they were even unable to announce anything. In Verín, when they covered the problem of the birthplace in Verín, which was a political decision and proved, because it could be solved, they announced some further investment. Well, they tried to cover something up. Not even here. I'm not telling you to be an electoralist anymore. It's trying to stop a mobilization. And this is the problem of the system, you're the other thing. This government isn't solving the health problems, it's the other thing: headlines, some photo that can solve something... they're the other thing! They don't care about this anymore. Other things if there's electoralism. I'll let myself quote something. I was unable to find the times they voted against the hemodynamics for 24 hours in Ourense. And I was unable to find the number of times — because they were many — that we warned — always with the 'no' and with the adjournment of the popular bench — that they would announce it by 2020. Year 2020, election year, announcement. I think it's a wonderful example, because it must be that now, imbued with some divine spirit, they found that this was a problem that had to be solved. Professionals have long said so. By the way, it's done in a room that was from the former Government, the one that you're giving up so much. They now use a resource that we already had, and now announce by 2020. By the way, if it's like Lugo's, it might be announced now, but it won't give them time to put it before the elections, because given the speed at which things take... And that's the problem. We have a government unable to react, a government that is before judicial judgements that tell him he's politics of fraudulent and torture personnel — he's literally quoting judicial judgments — fraud and torture. And there is no one who knows how to say in this Government anything but two sentences: one — which you said, Mr. Counsellor — "that's what there is"; two — that the person responsible for human resources said, "we don't always hire like this", which is all a achievement, all a achievement. You were unable to solve. They had some opportunities. There are some problems that obviously cannot be solved overnight, of course not. They had some opportunities to resolve key issues in the Greek health system. They gave up opportunities, let go of the opportunity to solve the problem of Povervisa, let go of the opportunity to solve the problems of how we faced the comarcas and reduced staff. Because this is the problem of the system, which you have a staff problem. There is a deficit and there is an insurmountable precariousness upon which here Mr Feijóo mind constantly and shamelessly, mind constantly and shamelessly knowing what lie. And there's a planning problem, a problem that you focus -- this is the problem of comarcas -- on two ways: empty primary care and concentrate hospital care. And primary care — as all experts are telling us — is the future of the model change of the whole system. It's not that we have to change the primary care model, that is, we have to change the system model and we have to focus on the primary care model. You know perfectly well. More than 80% of the problems are chronic, and there's primary care. More resources must be provided, more multidisciplinary in terms of health care. And that's what the professionals are telling them, that then, when you don't listen to them -- because they call them 12,537 commissions that never come to any conclusion more than say "we're doing everything" -- the professionals resign and you say they have no idea. They're walking around there that all they do is attack professionals. And that's the problem: they empty the primary care to take her to the hospitals, and they empty the comarcas to concentrate everything in the clinical hospitals of the cities. And that's the problem. You guys, in the face of a problem, aren't able to find a solution, so they have this problem. There won't be a demonstration on Sunday just because of the problem of Verín, that's not it. If they're interpreting it like that, I might be wrong, but we think that's not it. It helps to make this mobilization exist. It's serious and it's a concern. But there's a lot more problems, and you're trying to cover that situation with a press round of seven bands here that won't solve anything. They use problems as excuses, and they have to be used as challenges. But in the end, this doesn't matter to you. You're something else. Please don't touch much more than there's little left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u22	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u23	Mr. President, Mr. Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. First of all, by talking about the Cancer Day, which is celebrated today, I would like to highlight, I would like to thank you and I would like to highlight the prevention programs that are being carried out by the Council. It has recently been established — and it has already extended to the entire autonomous community — the Colon Cancer Programme, and it is now focusing on the Cervix Cancer Programme. I think research is very important, but the research capabilities of an autonomous community may not be as effective as they might be. But, of course, in terms of healthy lifestyles and prevention, I think that at this moment we are doing marvelously well on the part of the Council and we would like to congratulate you from the Popular Group. [[Applause]] And I would like to begin by thanking you for your presence in this Chamber on your own request to dismantle two of the many fallacies that have accustomed us to opposition groups. We know that public health is a very important subject in this room and that allows high degrees of demagogy in the face of the population for its importance and social sensitivity in relation to health. We're sick of hearing about dismantling. Dictionary of the Royal Galician Academy: "Demand: Destroy; Undo; cause something to stop working by interrupting its activity." I think it has nothing to do with what you expressed in this Chamber in the previous minutes. And we're also talking about the use of the modification of the Galician Health Act to achieve this dismantling. He used to talk about "peche". With "peche" they don't dare anymore. Now they're "decommissionings" or, for Mr. Villares, "decommissioning intent." They speak of this amendment to the Health Act and say it was actually to achieve this dismantling. And you come to prove with that data — with more than enough data even if for some spokesman they seem scarce, which first seems scarce and then says that you don't like it to give numbers, it didn't seem too clear in the intervention — what the Health Act did: it shielded the health districts, shielded the hospitals from these health districts and allowed, in addition, the legal coverage of consultations between hospitals, which was not clear at all. It also allows not to have to leave rural people in many cases without assistance, because that law makes it easier for the reference hospital professionals, the largest hospital, to be able to travel at a given time, on a casualty of a professional or in the face of coverage limitations, absences that are covered from that main hospital. But, look, we're very used to fake news. Fake news is an Anglo-Saxon word, but in English we have a popular saying that's fantastic, they're called "trails." When I was little, we always talked about cheating. And in 2012, before I came to Parliament, there was a pamphlet — from which the president had already spoken — in what was said to be charged for going to the doctor 67 euros; for a day of hospitalization, 513; by ambulance, 374; or by ultrasound, 336. [[Laughter]] And that was done by using torturerically the rates of services that are provided to external entities, such as car insurance or private insurance. [[Applause]] Of course, what did you want to do? Mislead the population with a troll. To rule or to try to govern are the trolleys. Nor was it paid to doctors for giving up — to me it was a lack of total and absolute respect as a professional — nor was it covered by the armchairs of the Cunqueriro; armchairs that, of course, for some person who was there with a family member are beds. There are beds to sleep as a companion and still above it's not charged. Another trolley! It was said that Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital was a private hospital. [[Murmurs.]] There's a court sentence that says it's a public hospital. Another trolley! And the treatment of hepatitis C patients here went mad, and they messed up with two people, two public offices of the system. In a car they withdrew all the accusations about them. And by reading the car, I think it's clearly specified that it's unquestionable, the car doesn't give rise to any doubts. There was no apology or any further discussion of this subject by opposition groups. As for the waiting lists, the Galician waiting lists are the best quarters of Spain. They are calculated exactly with the same calculation system in all autonomous communities. But it's no use here. Look, I'm going to give you a data that I found by chance. The National Institute of Statistics conducted a quality of life survey, and one of the items in this survey asked the citizen: "Have you ever needed medical assistance in the last 12 months except for the dentist, for yourself?, have you received medical assistance every time you really needed it?" And if the person shows that he has not been cared for, he gives him two groups of causes to justify why he has not been treated. The first group included that it was very expensive, that it was too far away, that it didn't have time or that there were waiting lists; in the second group, it didn't know any good specialists, to be afraid of doctors, hospitals, evidence, to wait to see if the problem improves spontaneously or other reasons. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, how many of the Greeks expressed themselves in the survey of the National Institute of Statistics — not the People's Party — that they were not treated, for any of these reasons, in the doctor? Zero percent. It's published. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] And, of course, we all know individual cases of waiting, in some case of prolonged waits, longer than it should. But, of course, in the millions of attentions that take place every year in the public health system these waiting lists problems are insignificant. They're very relevant to the person they touch, but you can't do anything about those cases. It affirms repeatedly that there have been cuts in Welsh public health and that there are fewer personnel than when ruling the Bipartite, we hear it millions of times. And we're doing the calculations from a 2009 budget that was over 2,000 million euros, which we're still returning from the German Government. And indeed, it lowered health expenditure in the central years of the crisis. But how was it done? It was done by reducing the pharmaceutical bill, limiting the investments and controlling staff costs with wage freezes, but always maintaining the operating expenditure of the own centres and increasing the expenditure of chapter I plus chapter II — no concerts — but chapter IV — no pharmacy — that is, what was healthcare — and it is constantly shown in activity figures — it has always been upwards. See the Report of the Board of Auditors — often here are reports of the Board of Auditors — corresponding to the year 2017: the average number of professionals who served in the autonomous body during 2017 was 38,044 people, 1.1% more than the previous year. Here has always been mentioned that the figure of 38,000 workers cited by the manager of Sergas was false. Well, it's true according to the Board of Auditors. And of all the self-governing budgets approved in that year, which devotes the most percentage to public health is Greek, 41%. There's no autonomical budget coming in. We also have the repeated fallacy of the privatizing effort that goes into PP's DNA, that we want to close the comarcas to favor private. Report of the Board of Auditors of the same year 2017: expenditure in concerts, EUR 202.5 million, 10.2 % less than the previous year, and represents 5,4 % of the total expenditure of the Board. It must be remembered here that in the years 2008 and 2009 it was 224 and 228 million euros, not 202. [[Murmurs.]] The prophecy about the Law of Guarantees was that it was going to privatize, that it was a job for companies. Not a single person cared for outside the guarantee system in the public system, all cared for in the public system! The OECD's Quality of Life Report has just been published and gives the highest score to Galicia in citizen security, which is a 10; and in public health and health, a 9 over 10. It's an OECD report. And I think it has nothing to do with the image that is constantly being manifested in this House of Health that seeks to fix the Secretary General of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr. Caballero. He's been manifesting it these days. It would be interesting if you spent your time getting Mr Sánchez's government back to us the 200 million euros that are behind us — but not to mention the other 170 —. [[Applause]] But I also wanted to get rid of another troupe, in which I insisted a lot here many times, about doctors immigrating abroad. I asked the presidents of the Medical Colleges Council, the Greek and the national, how many of those doctors who asked for the certification went abroad. For now we have figures, the General Council of Medical Colleges of Spain has now published them. In 2019, 4,100 certificates of fitness were requested to exercise medicine outside Spain, which were requested not by 4,100 doctors, but by 2,500; that is, as it expires at three months, it is asked again. Those who actually left were 433, 17% of the total doctors who asked for it, and 10% of the total applications. The autonomous community where most were requested was Catalonia, 591; and they left 229. His professional school in Barcelona stated that, of course, 50 were Catalans, 27 were other autonomous communities, and 150 were foreign doctors who had come to work in Spain. Foreign doctors: 229, 150. I think that argument has to stop using it because it's not a real argument. We could talk about the Pediatric Service at the Verín Hospital, a service that hasn't shut down the People's Party, which has been closed since 2006. There was no hospitalization pediatrician, but that's not interested either. Look, Counselor, I'm not going to talk too much, I think we've had enough. We want to thank you for your presence. I think it was meridianly clear that they didn't dismantle themselves or lock themselves. It's a question you're repeating — as you said well — every time the autonomous elections approach. It has provided data, hospital, personnel, investment or increased services that demonstrate that this is a recurrent fallacy. There are, of course, timely problems to cover specialties -- we all know -- such as traumatology in some hospital or dermatology in some area. But, look -- I said it here -- it's not a Greek problem. In Teruel, the capital of the province, there are 350 kilometers to Zaragoza, to go back and forth, to be attended by a traumatologist or a dermatologist. From the People's Group, Mr. Counsellor, we urge you to continue to improve your attention in the Italian countryside and continue to provide the Greek comarcas hospitals with more services, more staff and more investments, necessary for the development of that rural, which is of all. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u24	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Replica from the Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the truth is, I think we come and work with humility. Not everything is done, of course, but what can't be unknown to the data. And we came to present data, data on the dedication of the budget of the autonomous community — as the spokesperson for the People's Party, of 41% — said. We are from the communities that we approve budgets every year, and that makes it possible, of course, to improve services, especially the health system. Today, many autonomous communities are without budget. Galicia has been approved and increased; and with a budget in health, in absolute numbers, that never had the Welsh health as a whole. Even with superior budgets of the Galician Union, at the time of the Bipartite dedicated 35%. It is also true that later it was shown that it was an inflated budget and that it didn't count the reality of income. But this budget, which currently has the Unity of Galicia dedicated to health, is the greatest in history. As I say, we've come here to say that we've moved in an important way, but we've still got a way forward to keep moving forward. In this second part, I'll talk about some of the performances. For the impossibility of time, I will not be able to describe in detail each of them — but it is true that, for example, tomorrow there is a question about the Valdeorras Boat Hospital and we can expand. But, of course, if we are going to mention the actions planned in 2020 that affect all seven comarcial hospitals. We, in the face of sterile words, present facts, realities; and in the face of declarations of closures and cuts, the Council of Galicia places more services. It's a recurring theme in every election, and the truth is, lately, as there have been many elections, because it has been said many times that the comarcal hospitals are closed. The reality, of course, is the opposite. On comarcal hospitals the opposition only creates alarmism, spread falsehoods about their existence and their future. It is an opposition that is continually lacking to the truth when it says, as we said before, that the idea of the Government is to cut down and close. Of course, that's not the reality. Look, at Cee's Virgin Hospital, Cee -- I've been commenting on what we've done in recent years before -- even now the extension of the dialysis service is in place at three more days in the morning. We had Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, and now we'll have Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays. With this we will cover up to 48 patients — practically all of this region — who will not need to go to the Coruña Hospital, except that, because of special conditions of the patients themselves or who voluntarily wish to go. But, of course, we're going to avoid displacements, as I say, from a part of the population that is at a difficult time in their life and which, in addition, resorts for time to this kind of treatment. We're also going to open a high-resolution cardiology consultation to be able to diagnose everything in the same consultation and avoid displacements — as can be now — to the city of Coruña. In ophthalmology there will also be a retina unit in this center. We're going to reform the emergency service and the areas of patient care and social work, which are also fundamental to attention and to maintain the confidentiality we need in each area. In the health area of Santiago and Barbanza, specifically in the hospital of Barbanza, so it refers to this care area, in January we have just opened the Cardiac Rehabilitation Unit. And we will also end the new emergency service — which will increase in spaces, in services and logically also in staff — possibly in June 2020. The BNG spokesperson said we were late. Well, at least they are saying that there are works, and important works, that will radically change the attention at that point, at that important point located in the Town Hall of Ribeira. There is an investment in this total of 1,400,000 euros and the new emergencies will have a new area of admission, patient waiting room, family waiting room, triage room, two filter consultations, high clearance, public toilets, eight boxes, a critical box, pediatric box, nursing control, eight-bed observation room and toilet, observation room with chairs and own toilet, pediatric observation room, cleaning offices, warehouses, staff living room and medical room. Obviously, we have changed, expanded and improved circulation within this service, which is so necessary at times of increasing urgent care. 25 patients can no longer be treated in a peak of emergency response 38. We're also now on the project of reform of digestive endoscopy rooms. We're going to expand what the surface is for endoscopy, but also the patient recovery room after sedation exploration — nowadays a very high percentage is achieved with sedation. And also a new area of endoscope disinfection with sufficient ventilation and amplitude, in addition to other reforms. It is also an important investment, nearly 250,000 euros, which will come about soon. We're also studying the work to improve the hospital with an oncoholic day hospital. I move to the Lugo area, specifically to the Hospital de Monforte—then I'm told that I don't speak to one and another; I'm talking about everyone in both the first and second speeches. As I said before, the Monforte Hospital has the best surgical waiting lists, at 31.2 days, and it's the third in consultation delay, at 31.1 days. We're going to do the functional integration of the three laboratories in the area and we're going to implement the Hermes Program, which, as you know, is to increase the direct relationship between primary care and hospital care. We will also integrate functional hospital services for coordination between the three hospitals, speciality in specialty. We'll start specifically with the Neurology Service. And we're going to launch a day care hospital. The management plan already presented consists of five phases and a total of 15 million euros, as I say, at the Monforte Hospital. And the first phase will be the new oncohematologic day hospital and the care process and the extension of the pharmacy; enlargement of the pharmacy that will always be linked to the creation or increase of the oncohecologic day hospitals. This plan, as a whole, is going to act throughout the hospital, transforming all the hospitalization areas and starting up on the pediatrics and gynecology plant. In the Navy we have a master plan that is transforming it. In fact, marine users already know that expansion with a new hospital building, day-to-day hospitals, consultations and new entrance to this hospital. As I say, we'll end phase 1 B in June. And we're already preparing — asking for — the technical project to run the following phases of the management plan. Specifically phase two, which will be addressed to all those unaffected services at the other stage, and will be reviewed and improved in a very important way. And we're also in the start-up phase of the thermal envelopes of this hospital building. We depend only on this moment that the Town Council gives us the municipal license — we are late —. We are asking for it because it is a work of EUR 1,824,000 — European funds — to improve, as I say, the envelopers, external carpentry. Here too, like at the Monforte Hospital, we're going to implement the Hermes project, which has already been implemented in the Lugo area. And we're going to significantly improve that communication between the lines. We're going to make an emergency service space reform and implement Security. Security is an application of emergency services that will give us control of the patient since it is even captured by 061 until it enters the emergency service and ends up on discharge or hospital admission. It is an automatic follow-up that will eliminate the role in all this attention; and, of course, there will always be a responsible patient doctor. It's already used at some other hospital and, as I say, this is going to be one of the first. And we'll also start a physiotherapy program for chronic patients. At the Barco Hospital we've already called for the reform of the field of external consultations. The recruitment process, in fact, began on December 2. And we're trying to finish these procedures so we can start the work. The project plans to act on an area of 808 square meters, with an estimated budget of 477,000 euros and a deadline of 5.5. The reform of the Oncology Day Hospital and the Digestive Hospital and the Outpatient and Pharmacy Surgery Unit are also now in the drafting phase of the project and monitoring. And we estimate that we can bid this work between February and March of this year 2020, with a very important investment of EUR 900,000 as well. In addition, we have in the 2020 budget some €500,000 dedicated to equipment for this hospital, which will decide the management with the service heads of the corresponding services giving proper priority to what is appropriate. And right now, with the recruitment of a last professional, the expansion of the HADO comarcal level from home hospitalization. As you know, the German Home Hospitalization Plan is a pioneer, presented for the first time in an autonomous community, which means that in a very short time we have the coverage of 100 percent of citizenship. At the Hospital de Verín, in the area of care, in the first quarter of 2020, the consultations will begin on xinecologic nursing, menopause and pelvic soil, and in the following months there will be an extension of the pilotage of the Galician Cervic cancer piloting program. After the first one, which is done in the area of Lugo, it will be in the district of Verín. As for works, the construction of new emergencies and CAP is very important. With a location that may not be the best right now, and with a scarce space, you will almost triple the space devoted to these actions, to the urgent actions they need in this district. Investment in the emergency area is estimated at about 2.3 million euros. In the 2020 budgets, a budget of €300,000 is provided for equipment from this hospital. And at Salnés Hospital we are now opening and initiating the activity of the new oncotoxic day hospital, which allows the treatment of chemotherapy to oncotoxic patients in the Salnés region and avoids logically important displacements in patients who are in a sometimes complicated situation. Avoiding such displacements is a clear goal, a clear strategy, of our advice to improve the quality of attention. And we're also with the new sterilization center, which is the last work of that master plan to complete it definitively. With an investment of 600,000 euros we are going to go from the surface of the area now, 73 square meters in the sterilization area, to 246 square meters. And we're also working on a very interesting project right now, which is the very early chair surgery process, so the trauma and rehabilitation services aim to reduce the length of time for patients to enter their homes or their work. All that's presented here are real performances that consist of projects or even tenders and that we're going to launch, as I say, over these months. We try to bring facts, bring realities, and of course contrast data. And it's funny, because talking about what the opposition is talking about is much easier, talking about elements though they then get into contradictions. They always say before the elections that the People's Party, the People's Party's Government, always cuts. But it turns out that when they ruled, when he ruled the Bipartite for four years, what he did in Verín was precisely to close the pediatric service. And Mr. Villares also said something interesting. He was talking about the health area of Verín. Interestingly, Verín, before the law, was neither a health area nor a health district. It didn't exist. What the law reform did was to create a district, with the same identity as any other hospital in Galicia. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Just like the Ourense Hospital, which is district, I have the Verín Hospital, which I didn't have. So sometimes these contradictions arise. And it also speaks of the opposition that, when the People's Party rules, cuts increase and privatization increases. Interestingly, at the time of the Bipartite was the most spent there was in private centers. So, what they say before the elections, when they rule — rarely here in Galicia, thank God — it goes, of course, right against. The closure of the comarcas hospitals we know clearly that they are electoral slogans that repeatedly use — and without wearing, besides, coloured, that could be but not so —. Look, I'm going to tell them, because they always repeat it, the street theme. The theme of the street is, like other areas of Galicia, that of a municipality that asks for, and we understand that they need, a new centre. But curiously, the last request that was made by the Town Hall of the Street in the previous legislation was by the mayor — at that time it was the mayor of the BNG, because I think it was a government that shared, two years the BNG and two years the Socialist Party. So, curiously, the request I had, and for which I signed an agreement with the mayor, was not another health center. He asked me for an elevator to the health center, which was installed with that agreement we signed. What the new Mayor of the Street wants is a new health center, and what we signed was a protocol. As soon as the mayor can complete the procedure to pass that plot to the Councillory, the Councillory will build. But I want to tell them not to say "ah!"because now I'm going to tell the Moaña case. It happens exactly the same in Moaña. We signed a protocol with Mayor of Moaña, BNG, and we said that, as far as the mayor — who has a great interest in making a health center, just like us — we'll make the plot available, we'll start the project and the work of the new health center. Curiously, the Street and Moaña are in the same situation, and I know that both mayors and mayors are both very interested in making a new health center. And the Health Council also has it. So I think so. Look, thanks to this bond today, the opposition is talking about the fight against cancer, and I think it's good. Mr. Villares, I think it's important that we be united in important things and I believe that the fight against cancer is important as if we are and not using it as a slogan or to make a triumphal entry into what you're counting here. [[Applause]] And I also want to say that the idea of not having for two months what health care is for women and children in the health area of Verín has been explained many times. And the only justification behind it is the security we seek in the health care of pregnant women and children born in that birthplace. When we got the full endowment, with an embedded pediatrician, it was when we were able to start that activity again yesterday with total security and providing information, because informed consent is nothing more than an informative procedure. It's a citizen's right and we have to give as much information as possible there and at any point in our hospitals. We'll keep insisting and we'll keep an eye on security. They obviously can't accuse us of voting, of stopping this activity for two months by vote, but by security. However, I have to say that we go to many more hospitals than you all do, but the truth is we have fewer photos in hospitals. [[Applause]] We work to provide services and some of you are looking for wear, because that's what they announce, they say they're going to use health care to wear out the government and get to power. That's what they ask. What you need, what you want, is to get to power. And it's worth anything, even going against the safety of our patients. We're not going to allow it, and we're going to keep working to improve our services. [[Applause]] I come here with everything, with a balance of what has been done. But this counselor didn't, he did all the team that formed the Health Council, which is 38,000 professionals in all categories, including managers. And they do a good health service. It's better, like everything else, so in phase two I've told you what we're going to do in the next few days, in the next few months, and of course in the next few years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u26	Thank you, Counselor. Round of clarifications. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Turns out for clarification, as the president said. First clarification: on 27 March 2019 the People's Party in this House refused to increase investment in cancer research. It's a clarification. Well, now you come to the fence and clear that up. More clarifications: no services are closed, the neo-language is to stop and restart activities. Well, all right, you call it what you want. There were people who were entitled to a health benefit, they stopped having it — in the case of Verín — and now they have it again. Well, if that's not a lockdown and a service reopener, you call it what you want. You say the opposition only makes alarmism, alarmism. It was the People's Party who, with their unjust decisions—and even cruel from a human point of view—separated a mother from her son nothing more born at the Hospital de Verín, nothing more born. Just an hour after birth he was separated from his son, who was transferred to Ourense. And then she had to spend several hours until she could get back her skin contact, which is what all the protocols recommend at the international level. And we're the alarmists, are we? Man, no! Here seems to be the counsellor, even though he has time unlimited, or does not listen to what is said from the opposition or has no answer. And that's why I'm going to review some of the shortcomings you didn't have to answer. But before that, in relation to the health area of Verín, I will also tell you that in the process of reform of the Galician Health Act we, from En Marea, proposed moving from 11 to 14 health areas — including the health area of Verín — from 11 to 14 health areas. You were more of a cut. Then they cut down the areas and moved from 11 to 7. Well, there's a difference, of course. There's an ideological difference, there's a management difference, there's a political difference. We believe in the autonomy of health management, in its own media organization capacity. We think that, with proximity to the territory, it's the best way to manage health. You believe in something else, you believe in the "hospitalocentrism", in centralization of services around large hospitals, which are not so large and therefore to be derived from the private, not in a conjunctural way, but in a structural way. And private derivation is the hidden privatization of health care, all for greater glory of those who benefit from it. So there's a use of public money for the benefit of private businesses, which comes out to all of us and all of us more expensive because in private derivation there's a business benefit that in the public doesn't have to exist. Therefore, private health care costs us more money and also damages public services. So I want to get back to that necessary question that needs to be taken into account in health care, and we don't talk about numbers, we talk about people. Look, health rights throughout the territory — a health care provided fairly throughout the territory — as Isabel Calvete once said, a woman from Cervantes, are not expensive or cheap, they are simply the assumption of legitimization of a democratic state. There is no democratic state if there is no provision for the rights of those who commit themselves to modern democracies. And we're talking about this, about the provision of rights, about people being first citizenship, whether living in a city or living in a rural environment. And that's what you're denying him with the progressive dismantling of public health in the county hospitals. Here we are subject to health care, with a restructuring that has been taking place throughout the ominous decade of its government, the government of Feijóo, to the economic interests of a few multinational companies. But that's not all. We have also come here to denounce matters that are not questions of money, they are ideological issues that also cover other beginnings. For one thing, the censorship I spoke about before and about what you didn't have to answer properly. Please immediately withdraw the Sergas instruction that prohibits explaining to patients and users the removal of services that Sergas does. If you're so sure your health policy is so good, don't stop people from explaining that health policy inside the center. Secondly, with regard to strengthened consent, you explain what is the normative anchorage of that and why women are penalized with that obligation. And thirdly, transparency. He didn't tell me any of the non-structural waiting lists either. And this has a lot to do with today's appearance. You come to assume from the good numbers of the comarcal hospitals on the waiting lists because you're obvious all the non-structural lists. Do an exercise of transparency and compromise. I asked him the first time and I asked him again for a second. From the Verin Hospital I told you a lot of shortcomings -- transmitted, by the hospital's own health personnel this week -- that you didn't answer -- services that were infred with dermatology, trauma, rheuma, etc. There was no answer. At the Barco Hospital, at the Valdeorras Boat, the structuring of the pediatric guard system, well, because it was an illegal system, and said the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia. Their ability to organize services in comarcas hospitals could not cover illegality, an illegality that, by the way, had once again an economic background, which was to save the money paid to professionals who would serve the pediatric guards.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u28	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u29	I'm done. At the Barco Hospital, a third of the specialists were lost, and in nursing. Beds are closed, beds like those that are locked in Salnes in the summer, etc. That is, a disaster, a disaster that you don't care about and that you don't respond to, despite having unlimited time, which we lack the rest to denounce the measures that are necessary. And not for us, this isn't an election issue, this is a matter of necessity that even affects those who vote for the PP who vote for them in tide. Therefore, in the name of that common good, please meet En Marea's demands and the rest of the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u30	Thank you, Mr. Villares. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u31	Mr. Mayor of the Núñez Centeno People's Party, for you it was a troupe that wanted to close the comarcas hospitals. Neighbors don't let them shut down the services of the comarcal hospitals! It's not that you don't want it, it's not that you don't want it! Because, of course, here the counselor spoke of security, lack of expertise, inefficiencies. [[Applause]] They used all the excuses. The reality was that they wanted to take away one more service, one fundamental service, and that also affected women. And, of course, because health is in those high parameters in all those surveys, so year after year is the third element of concern for the Greeks and the Greeks, just behind the employment situation. That's why, because you don't see any problems, to the Greeks if it happens to them, to the question of which are the most serious problems they have, to say that it's health? Is that a whim? It's just a whim, it's not because they see what the situation is. [[Applause]] They're like this, we're different places, we're different places. [[Applause]] Look, you have so much, so much concern for the comarcal hospitals, that they thank the councillor who's here talking about the subject, and then he doesn't talk about any of the comarcal hospitals. He spoke of everything but the county hospitals. That's why they're very grateful to the counselor who's here. You lied and you kept lying, Mr. Man, saying that the goal is to provide more and better comarical areas with services in favour of supposed efficiency and effectiveness. What they did was take services from the comarcal hospitals. They have no regard for the reality of each of them, their population reality, their reality of extension. All they're doing is avoiding the health care of the population. Equity is an empty word used systematically in its mouth and which does not correspond to reality at all. Every time our country's health has less fairness. People in rural and rural areas have worse attention than urban areas. And besides that was his goal, that was his goal. Instead of providing the comarcal hospitals with services, what they're doing is spending them little by little, scratching them, turning them into chronic hospitals. They've all been debased, and it turns out that some of them were no longer sanitary areas. And then, as some of them were no longer health areas, we eliminated them all as health areas and turned them all into districts, which means they're uniquely and exclusively dependent on larger hospitals. I don't know if that information you're sending to each county is going to send a single photo or if you're going to do a photoshop sitting in front of each of them. What I ask you is that you add that in Verín you have no dermatologist—and you have never been incorporated in spite of having the place there—; that in surgery and anesthetists there is such a problem that in December there were entire weeks without interventions for not having a second surgeon or anesthetist to enter surgery. And, in the boat, otorrinos, urologists, oncologists and diestologists go now and then, even though they have the square there, they go to Ourense, which is where they are. In Cee they still have no janitors, they never had janitors and they're still without them. The new works of the O.R. services, which you said were increased, were endowed with wasted material from other hospitals, essentially from the Hospital da Coruña. And that happens not only at Cee Hospital, but at other hospitals. Send them the second-hand stuff. And the services that were previously covered in full-time and now are no longer: hematology, laboratory, preventive medicine... in Monforte have been non-digestive for years, the cardiologist has been down and is covered by an internist — who will be very good professional but is not a cardiologist, he is an internist. In the Navy, knee surgeries are all derived from the Place; like fimoses, testicular twists and basic pediatric surgeries, which go to the Coruña. Premature, 100 percent, are derived from Lugo despite there's ability to do it at the Coast Hospital, where there's only one rheumatologist and the waiting list is one year to see the results. Lack of rehabilitation. Leave the pacemaker. They used to be in the Navy and now they have to go to Lugo, and they know how far Lugo is. Magnetic resonances are only portable — and less and less — and systematically send everything to Pulusa. I could keep enumerating her a few more things. In any case, Counsellor, I'm going to make a series of proposals for you to take them into account, proposals to rectify your health policy with regard to the comarcas hospitals and to restore their resolution capacity, which resupplys the health areas of the comarcas hospitals. What they should never do was remove them. And those who didn't have a health area, such as Verín, Barba and Cee, donate them and return the agency to nearby health areas with health needs identification functions, with planning and management capacity, with decision-making capacity.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u32	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u33	Make a position in the value of comarcal hospitals decentralizing decision-making and respecting the competences and autonomy of these hospitals. It provides the comarcas centres of personnel, materials and technology necessary for adequate care for people in that field. Retrieve the administrations. Remove the need for strengthened consent from the Verín Hospital.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u35	Finished, President. Counsellor, you have no justification except to penalize women who decide and insist on giving birth to this hospital. And withdraw the censorship instruction, that health pin, because, as much as they want, they won't get people to keep moving, just like they're doing next Sunday here in Santiago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Now we're going to greet the students at the center of Manuel Padín Trueteiro, of Arcade, in Soutomaior. They are 5th and 6th primary students who are visiting Parliament today and who are also accompanied by their teachers. Welcome to Parliament. And now if you have the floor, by the Joint Left Group, Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u37	Thank you, President. As a preliminary question, Mr Almuña, we are working against the safety of patients. I believe that it is out of the question of parliamentary debate. I've moved here even rather rough ratings about your management, but I think we've never made a personal attack. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] To say that we want there to be a safety problem for the patients, I think it prevents you from in such a serious debate, and not as health counsellor but as a member of this House. [[Strong murmurers.]] I think, although we disagree — and even we have asked him to resign — no one here works against the safety of the patients. We understand that the measures... there is a usual excitement, every time we intervene in this House, in the Members and Members of the People's Party. [[Strong murmurers.]] I believe — and I will end this issue already — that the measures you take cause pain on many occasions to people, but we never claim here that it was something that you did on purpose thinking of causing pain to those people. So I think it's out of place. It is already the second full in what you miss about — like me in the past interpellation — and I would ask you to apologize. He spoke as if there was nothing before Mr. Feijóo. You said there was nothing, that there were no districts before, that there were no areas, that there was nothing. It's like the fourth coming of Christ, before Mr. Feijóo there was absolutely nothing in public health and the chamans took care of people. No matter what you stand for your reform of the Health Act, I believe that before, and fortunately, things have been done. They've done things and we've been curiously demanding that more measures be taken to put more personnel in those centers. You've been ruling for a decade, and yet you haven't done anything in that way at all. It's not worth announcing here any more square meters of dependencies if they're not accompanied by staff. Let's also tell you when the CHUAC emergencies have been expanded. The reality is that on many occasions we need infrastructure, and we ourselves ask for it in the amendments we make to their budgets every year — health centres, improvements in the comarcas hospitals and in the rest of the hospitals. But obviously the basic structural deficiency, the problem of our public health, is the lack of sufficient personnel. So this element is central. Not because you say there's more boxing in an emergency -- and this is basic to understanding public health -- they're going to take care of more sick people, because the staff is the same, and we've already told you in the past full reference to the home hospital service, Mr. Almuño. If you don't put any more personnel, it's impossible to give more service. It's impossible. They announced, I think, that even three times, that the hospital service would be extended to the home of the ship of Valdeorras. But it's not true, and the same thing happens in Verín. It's only reached 15 kilometers around, the rest of the municipalities don't have that service; and sometimes it's a difference of one kilometer, because, depending on where it is, whether it meets or not. And it's not because people are bad or planning is better, it's because with a medical professional and a nursing professional, you can't take care of it anymore. What is needed is more doctors, doctors, nurses and nurses to provide these home hospitalization services, because otherwise it's very difficult to extend coverage. And that's the situation we have in the county hospitals. I believe — and I'm not going to be in the health centers because I wouldn't give myself time and it's not this attendance — that, rather than coming here to transfer responsibility to the municipalities, you have to assume your own. Ten years ago there's been land to build the health center of the Iron, lands that have been paid with public money, which are at your disposal. And you didn't build anything at all. For a long time you've had the land to expand the Porriño health center, for example. I'm setting examples of centres I worked at and about which I moved proposals to the Health Committee, and they didn't do anything. So I don't think you can come here to throw balloons out on your responsibility. And the situation we have in public health and in county hospitals is complex, and it's serious in some cases. I could have even talked about that emergency collapse today. Yes, collapse, because there were patients waiting for two days — according to family members — to a bed at the Barbanza Hospital. And you said last year that by decree, no one would wait more than 24 hours in an emergency service. That's the situation in our health centers, and so that should be -- and I'm finished now -- which dealt with the presence of a health adviser. That's the central element, the lack of staff, and not the ads. Because I think you have to understand something, you have to understand that for some coins, for an auction, for an announcement of an enlargement, people will not stop mobilizing when they remove the pediatrician, when they remove the doctor from the health care center, when they take out their parentage service. You learn that people will continue to mobilize and that, however afraid they may — and that is why they use their appearance to transfer ads — the mobilization of next Sunday will be a success.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. On some of the things Mrs Solla has said, I tell you that I am presiding over this debate, and we need to know how we frame them. I know that no one here, no one in this room, wants there to be insecurity about patients. I know, what happens is, sometimes they say things rhetorically. As I also know it's not bad news that you decide to open a hospital and a health center, and sometimes it's used rhetorically. We will therefore frame the debate in which it must be framed. It was also said here, and I know that it was rhetorical, that it was ill-treated in health, that there is a medical abuse. I know this is rhetorical, because if it wasn't, I'd automatically have to suspend this plenary. Please, let's start the debate where we have to frame it. And, therefore, I ask them a certain degree of restraint on this matter. You have the floor, by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. We share their words from our group, although we are surprised that I always do these appreciations after the intervention of an opposition group and never of the People's Party. Yes, it's always in general, but when the others talk. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Counsellor, you, as you could not be otherwise — you must sometimes appeal to the classics — go to a traditional classic: it was Touriño's fault. This is good. Look, allow me, I'm going to transfer what the Government did to the Verín Hospital. He made a public hospital, because it used to be a foundation. It's not a bad decision, we think. [[Applause]] It's more, to make the public hospital first had to pay the ingenious and insumable puppie that left the foundation model. And to make it a little bit more relaxed, in the mode of television contest — I think the foundation was built, and you are probably going to correct me, who manages data, in 1992 or 1993 by Sergas in Verín, I'm going to ask you who was Sergas' manager in 1993. I'll give you a hint: sit down with you in the government group. I'd say there, but, in fact, we'll think about it. [[Murmurs.]] I'd say there. I think he was Sergas' manager one sitting in his government. And you know what he did? A private foundation at the Hospital de Verín. You know what happened? That the puppies had to be paid and the staff had to be returned to the public system. That's what the Tourin Government did. That's the model, their sound the foundations and our public hospital. And from there we discuss what they want, from there to the north, as they say in my village. About the comarcal services, he didn't question anything about the home hospitalization of Valdeorras. It's impossible to pay attention to the staff. Even though they announce it four times, the staff does not multiply four times. If they announce the same thing four times, it's still the same thing, it's not four times. It's important. He didn't say anything about the problem of dermatology in Verín, which was a major cause of the announced mobilization before you fed that mobilization with the parity, with the closure of the parity. He didn't say any of the appointments presented by user associations, like in Salnès, that say waiting lists are announced but that they have much bigger waiting lists and that no one gives them an explanation why; nor why there are no staff to attend surgery that are not used months after they are built. You deny systematically, and did not explain — this desire to deny — what happens with the warning made by the Galician Medical College Council on strengthened consent. Or are they also alarmists? Or do they also want, as you said, power and are willing to defeat the Government? Do they not defend medical professionals and say that you are introducing something that is unacceptable — what do they say? He quoted here Mr. Núñez Centeno — he didn't want to waste much time — that dismantling was to make something stop working. I think I got it right. And he says that under that description you couldn't talk about dismantling. He said, "Make something stop working." And it corrects me linguistically, but I would say that the birthplace of Verín is no longer working. It's decommissioning. I didn't make the warning. [[Applause]] And he also warned about the scams. I recognize him, in my land, too, if he says "Trola," it's a rather nice word as a word. Two days before they announced the closure of the Parish of Verín, the People's Party said here: We will increase the services of the Verín Hospital. Two days later, they closed the yard. Trolleys, trolleys... And these denials are going to happen despite the fact that everyone is discussing this health policy system that they're leading, and even though you're taking the posters off to the professionals. By the way, allow me to differentiate. They remove the health centers posters to prevent some professional complaints, but they send them emails every day from the Galician Union to promote their actions. Official mail advertising, yes; complaint cartels in health centers, no. So we think that's insatiable. What shows, Counselor, is that you have the inability to solve these problems. You came here to expose only what you wanted. It's an appearance, but not to Members and Members. You came to the media, that's all right. But the parliamentary task is to come to a certain debate. He didn't answer any of the things we asked him, he didn't care. Maybe answer later so we don't have a replica shift. It's the usual, but not the usual, but the usual, in any case. And you have suggested — and that is what we want to contribute a little bit to this debate — that comarcial hospitals now have better attention because the circulation of professionals from universities hospitals to comarcial hospitals is allowed. Let's go to the central business. That's not true. One of the motivations of this reform of the Health Act that affected some of the comarcial hospitals — some of them their legal status was the same — was one of the motivations, it came around. But not to solve it like that, but the final result was, as everyone told you, the opposite. It's not happening, they're losing services. And they're concentrating services on city hospitals. At the Education Council are smarter and more creative and solve the problems of difficult-covered squares? Why is there no such problem there and yes in the Health Council? Why? Is it because we have some advisories that have a different assumption or is it because in one case nobody has the ability to transform and find solutions to cover the difficult coverage squares, which is what happens in the Health Council and does not happen in other councils? Well, that's what happens. It's not like that. But this would be nice if you were on this, but you're something else. You said so. He just talked about power and pictures here. They're there, the headlines and the photos. And that's not gonna get us out of the health problem that we have, and that's why it's going to manifest people, so you went to the Street the other day and that's why it's coming today, to see if you can convince someone that it's not going to Sunday's mobilization. But there's going to be a lot of people, and that's actually, Counselor, it's not good because it shows that there's a deep complaint, although you believe that people and professionals are manifested for sport. That's not the case, they manifest themselves because probably the professionals and all the people who mobilize are more concerned about public health than you prove.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u40	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. "The cuts kill." If that's not to accuse the system and its charges of harming people... I suppose it'll be rhetorical too, Mr. President, because, if that's not rhetorical, if someone's accused of cutting and cutting kill, I think he's being called something, which is being insulted. I don't know. Of course, welcome to the seriousness, Mrs. Solla, welcome to the seriousness. Then, in that field, we'll always meet. It seems that being a government in Madrid is also moderated to you. It seems that being a government in Madrid is also moderate. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Mr. Torrido, indeed, the birth room in Verín is no longer working. It stopped working for security reasons, and they know perfectly well; for mother's safety and newborn. You've been talking about dismantling comarcal hospitals for years. I don't think there's such a dismantling. Today the advisor gave figures, all of which you don't want to hear: activity figures, staff figures, investment figures, service figures, everything. But that's not what you want to hear. Of course, right now compare the possibilities of covering a square of the Education Council with a doctor's seat, the Health Council, I think it has little comparison. I can tell you that when I finished my career, we were 20,000 unemployed. And if they gave you eight days to work in the year, or if you worked one month a year, you were the king of the mambo. You took any place you had given him, no matter how much Fistra was, that it was the Handyman, that it was the Guard. It was the same, at that moment there was a stop. It's much harder today. How will you cover the hard-covered squares if people can choose where they're going? Don't make comparisons that you know they're not real. Look, Mrs. Prado, I appreciate the... I know you don't like listening, but you'll have to listen to something. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I thank the counselor for coming in; first, for he explains things and, second, for dismounting lies, for dismounting lies. [[Applause]] You're upset to disassemble them. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Of course, you don't want to hear about any data. Here's a certain collective saying there's a lot of waiting lists in Galicia. With what data? Where do the data come from, from a person at a given time? Of course! [[Murmurs.]] Yes, Mrs. Prado, I know you don't like it! You also said that specialists go from time to time. I think it was you. Obviously, in small populations, with a small number of populations like some of the districts of these comarcal hospitals, there's no pathology for a professional to go seven days a week, that's obvious. And maybe that professional can work for three days at the central hospital and two days at the comarcal hospital, and he can attend and he can approach people's services. I know, I know you're upset, too, Mrs. Prado. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Go on, go on. I also didn't hear any kind of apology from opposition groups, excuses for fraud, excuses with people falsely accused of hepatitis C. We keep waiting for those excuses for the things that were said and that were commented on in this Chamber on repeated occasions. We're back to what Mrs. Solla used to say at first, aren't we? You've never talked bad about anyone here, and nobody's messed with people, for nothing! And indeed, before Mr Feijóo there were comarcas hospitals. And there were comarcal hospitals because they were built by the People's Party, by the governments of the People's Party. You remember the ambulances, the debate about more ambulances. [[Applause]] With four children of Bipartite and not the first ambulance. Not even the first one! [[Murmurs.]] Remember your government, how many areas did your government have on the health map? Seven! What was the difference with the current health map? That Burela was going to Ferrol; Burela wasn't going to Lugo, went to Ferrol. There were seven sanitary areas. And they know that Verín had no district or that Cee had no district. Cee, by the way, works so well that it's operating people from Bergantiños County, that, theoretically, it doesn't belong to him. Because they're working very well in certain specialties. They're helping. You know, today, of the thing that works the most, with a lot of difference, is cataracts. Well, they're doing cataract surgery. They call my Carballo insured and they'll operate on Cee. Is that good? Of course it's good! What we have to do is facilitate assistance. Look, Counselor, I think you gave explanations more than anything else about what I said, about the subject of both staff and investment and how to operate. I believe that the whole issue of closure has been forgotten, that of the comarcial dismantlings has been completely and absolutely clarified. And I thank you again — as much as it bothers Mrs. Prado — for your presence here. I think it also highlighted in this last intervention things that will be done as well, that they still stand to say that the thing is still better than they mean to us: expanding services and expanding people, workers. I think I have little more to say. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u42	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. To close this show, you have the word of the Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u43	Thank you very much. I also fire students at the Arcade school, Manuel Padin, and their teachers. The truth is, I wanted to end by simply reinforcing something very important to us, which is human resources. I want to remind you of the opposition that during my visit I talked about very important staff increases in all and every one of the comarcial hospitals. I know that this is not meant to be taken into account, but I think the opposition should at least recognize it. At some point I know you recognized him, and at most they talk about delay, because they can't go against that reality. Mr. Touriño in Verín changed him, and if he was founded he passed the public hospital. But he did something else, which went to end the pediatrics service at the Verín Hospital. Mr. Touriño's done with them, he's done with that service. [[Murmurs.]] Look, they're talking about puppies. Unfortunately, we had a very serious problem in Spain for years by the socialist government of Mr Zapatero, which led to an economic crisis that led to. That's why I say, every time socialists govern, what happens. [[Strong murmurers.]] And I'm also drawn to the attention that, during this debate, if I talked a lot about the Council of Colleges of Physicians in Galicia. What a fragile memory! Two weeks ago the opposition wasn't talking about anything about the Council of Medical Colleges in Galicia because they said what was done in Verín was well done, because there was no security in the attention of women and especially the newborns. [[Strong murmurers.]] How curious that they remember him now! It's too bad the President of the Council didn't ask Sergas what we were talking about. I have explained here on several occasions already in this Parliament. The opposition doesn't want to, but really the president of the College could call. We'll explain exactly. Informed consent is a fundamental information process, and it is a right. It's a right that we, of course, will continue to exercise. And, as I say, we'll take care of security. The opposition also talked about the abuse of oncology. And there was talk of space problems in Vigo. But curiously today, there's an interview with the Oncology Service Chief, who talks about the characteristics of this service, which is one of Spain's best services, with personalized medicine already available in Vigo for all patients. Galicia's public system works fine. It works well because it has magnificent professionals and because it has a government that approves budgets, so, with those assumptions, you can make investments. With extended budgets in Spain we have for several years, by the way. They're not very bad budgets, because Mr. Montoro did them. But it's Mr. Montoro's. So, a fundamental problem for a government is, of course, budgets. And if you don't approve them, of course, no service will be in operation. And it must also be said that the system that we create from health and district areas is so that we can solve the great problem we have right now throughout Spain, which is the lack of professionals of certain specialties. There are places that are difficult to cover, and that's how you spoke at the Interterritorial Council. And today, although we're not going to talk about it, I'm going to tell the new minister that we're going to ask for an interterritorial council as soon as possible to talk about human resources, which is one of the most important problems together with drug depletion, which is also a central government competition. Of course, we're gonna keep working on it. And we have to say, about the treatment system that we're doing in comarcas with oncologists, that the same oncologist that treats lung cancers in Lugo, in the HULA, treats them in Monforte and treats them in the Navy. That's the best possible system, that's equity and accessibility. That's what we're doing with this model, which is referred to by the Health Act. But it's a lot more than the Health Act, it goes a lot further. And that's what we want to achieve. We have a problem in human resources. We have it in Galicia and we have it in Spain in certain specialties. What are we going to do? Well, look, in Galicia we were pioneers taking steps to tackle this problem. First, we publish public offers of annual employment. We were the only autonomous community that did so in times of crisis. He did. We broadened the retirement age, a rule that was established at the national level. Galicia was the first. We're about to have professionals who are around 69 years old, and doing, in addition, a great job. Another was to increase the number of doctors in training. The only thing that stopped us were accreditations. In pediatrics we've been asking the Ministry for a year. And in the end the last minister did so and got what Galicia asked for — a whole year asking for seven more pediatrical squares. And we went up the largest number of family doctors in training this last two weeks ago: 129. So we're doing it. And also, according to the unions, we have developed the open and permanent transfers, which make us win professionally from other autonomous communities that come to Galicia because this is an open topic, as I say, and permanent. Every year, these merits are placed on the table. And now, as I say, after the sectoral table negotiation, we incorporate an additional score in the merit bar in the open and permanent competition for those professionals who worked or worked in the comarcas hospitals. We are already talking to the unions for the new public job offer of 2020, and we have reached an agreement. What was done for the open and permanent competition, increasing the score for professionals who carry out this activity in comarcas, is also going to be in the next OPE in 2020. It's a new element, an important element to encourage professionals to decide to go to the comarcas. But not only will it improve the possibility of those professionals working in the comarcas, it will also affect those workers in the centers of the central hospitals who will consult or surgery the comarcas hospitals, which will also increase their score in proportion to the time when they develop the activity in the comarcas hospital. If you go two days a week, you count those two days as days that score higher than the others in your call for public employment. We're even valuing, and we want to negotiate it too, the possibility of increasing even more the score in the case of medical specialties of special coverage difficulty. With which, that incentive is the most important incentive today so that professionals can go to comarcial hospitals, rather than economic incentives. We're also valuing facilitating access and step-by-step of the professional career of these professionals, so that it's also another further stimulus. And of course we will not abandon the possibility of introducing economic incentives, which, as I say, will be a sectoral table issue to talk to the unions. In conclusion, and after speaking I believe that of very important aspects saying what is being done in Galician Union, what is being done in the comarcal field, since its creation, comarcas are fundamental to the health care of nearly 340,000 Greeks, and also with magnificent professionals. Services have grown steadily since the beginning despite the population's fall. The fundamental end, as I say, is, both in primary care and in comarcial hospitals, to bring the services — and if they are so resolute — to the population; quality services, more and better services and with more professional, equipment and infrastructure. The activity is growing and with magnificent results. As I say, Spain's best lists dance in these hospitals. The health districts of Law 1/2018, of 2 April, guarantee the future of the comarcas. The Council is committed to further improving services and, of course, seeks — as I have just described — new incentives not used in other parts of Spain for professionals in comarcas hospitals, both for those who develop their entire activity in comarcas hospitals and for those who perform part of their activity in them. I want to finish as I began, thanking all the professionals in all the professional categories who have been working for many years in the comarcas, those who work today and those who will continue to work. I think they're doing a great job. And we, of course, are going to try to facilitate that way of working with more infrastructure, with more equipment and, of course, with more coverage of professional squares. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u44	Thank you, Counselor. Debates and votes of the Ditome issued by the Non-Permanent Study Commission for Equality and Women's Rights
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u45	Particular votes have been put forward in favour of the Joint Parliamentary Group, the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, the Left Joint Group and the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The president of the Non-Permanent Study Commission for Equality and Women's Rights, Ms Paula Prado del Río, has the floor for the presentation of the dictatorship.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u46	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, on October 30, 2013, after the beginning of the IX legislation, the popular parliamentary groups of Galician, Galician Socialists, the Alternative Left Galician and Galician Nationalist Block called for the creation of the non-permanent study commission for equality and women's rights. On 19 November that year was created by agreement of the Bureau of the Galician Parliament, and its work plan included the drafting of a dictatorship which assessed the application in the various areas within the competences of Organic Law 1/2004, of 28 December, of measures to protect against gender-based violence; and of Law 11/2007, of 27 July, of prevention and treatment of gender-based violence. Following the initiation of the current legislation, on 7 November 2016 the popular parliamentary groups of Galicia, Galician Socialists, the Galician Nationalist Block and En Marea requested the creation of the said commission with the aim of finalizing the work that had been pending in the previous one; creation which took place according to the Bureau of the Chamber of 15 November of that year. In the appearance phase, 21 expert persons in all the required areas were interviewed and 16 reports were received to expand the knowledge of both laws. That, combined with the work of the IX legislation, gives a total of 83 attendances and 28 reports. Finished the first stage of obtaining information, the presentation was constituted, which prepared the corresponding dictation project. The work within the presentation was very intense and with a high degree of consensus; in fact, it presented only amendments to the wording of the presentation by the Group of the BNG. These amendments were discussed in the Commission of 20 December 2019 and some of these proposals were incorporated. The committee approved the ruling by a majority and without a vote against it. The statement that I have the honour to present today is structured into four headings: background, legal framework, appearances, reports and recommendations and conclusions and proposed measures. The heading on attending people, reports and recommendations is in turn divided into four axes: awareness raising, prevention and education, improvement of institutional response, improvement of assistance, assistance and protection, rural women and the sea and feminicide. The conclusions and recommendations of this dictatorship are drawn from the analysis of the reports and information that have been transmitted by the persons present from the various issues involved: education, training, assistance, associationism, trade unions, bodies and security forces of the State, the judiciary, prosecutor's office, lawyers, information centres to women, universities, health, employment, the media, other administrations such as Fegamp, etc. Conclusions and recommendations which, as indicated in the introduction of the dictatorship, synthesize concrete proposals for action that will support the basis of the Greek Covenant against Gender Violence in order to achieve a common goal: to eradicate violence against women in our society. I would like to thank the intense and generous work of all the parliamentary groups and all the Members who participated in this work, not only for this legislation but for the past legislation. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u47	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado del Río. We then turn to the parliamentary groups to set their position on the dictatorship and, if so, to defend the particular votes cast. Mr Villares Naveira has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u48	Good morning again, gentlemen. The document proposed for your vote is the result of debate and consensus, after a long work of active listening and analysis of the appearances of experts in different aspects of male violence and inequality. So from En Marea we want to thank the members of the Equality Commission for their work both in this X legislation and in the IX, which preceded us. As a Joint Group of In Marea, we have joined the commission which has already begun, but this has not been an obstacle to making our approaches and reflections and for some of them to be collected, and we want to thank the rest of the commission as well. On saying it in itself, we want to be very clear: there is not all that is — or what it should be — in our opinion, but that is all that is. We know that consensus means this, we are going to give up on specific aspects so that central measures can be taken forward, and that is why we are going to vote in favour of it. We think they're insufficient, but they're necessary; they're indispensable, we mean. We are based on the awareness that the arrival of this consensus is a achievement that once again puts Galicia in the vanguard of the struggle against male violence at the state level. And if we make our own votes, even if we are going to vote in favour of the text, it is because we believe that this should continue to be the case. And besides, not only in the formal aspect of the approval of the dictatorship, but also in the necessary materialization of it. To continue this vanguard situation as a result of the approval of this type of document also depends — and we want to be very clear in this sense — on the fact that all forces recognized as Democrats strongly refuse the speeches and practices negationists of machismo and the structural violence it generates, not being compatible with the defence of women's rights with political forces which deny the existence of machismo. That's very clear, you can't be in Mass and repeating. You can't be defending women's rights and agreeing and ruling with those who deny them, because from there comes the relaxation of the fulfilment of those commitments and hence wet paper commitments that give a fundamental character. It is not compatible to be by a pact against gender-based violence and at the same time allow anti-LGTI hate speech to penetrate into educational centres or endorse measures such as educational censorship that prevents affective-sexual education or prevents education on an equal footing. As for the position of En Marea in relation to its particular vote, we believe that the measures in the conclusions paragraph are of consensus — we have just said — urgent and necessary. And logically, from this consensus between groups, because we are talking about measures that are minimal, but not all measures that would be essential for this group to develop the future Greek Pact against gender violence. However, since Marea, we consider it essential to arrive at a number of points that we understand should be among the conclusions that have already been gathered into the existing legislation and that they should not be compromises that should generate dissent between the political forces. First of all — we want to make it clear — it is necessary to end the concerts with centres that segregate the student by sex as a precondition for co-education, as set out in the Plan of Action for Equality in Education in the Galician Union. One thing is that these centers are legal and another thing is that these centers have to be arranged, and much less already receive public subsidies. It should be recalled in this respect that the Education Council is also not transparent with regard to the funds allocated annually to this type of concert, despite En Marea's repeated requests for information even in the debate of the 2020 budgets. Secondly, we demand the derogation from Law 5/2010, which establishes and regulates a network of support for pregnant women, a rule that camouflages support for female management, the provision of grants and consultation with Red Madre and other anti-abortists, as well as adjudicates direct information work for pregnant women under a clearly ideologicalized perspective on one of the positions in the extension of rights. The law, moreover, deepens in essentialist positions on women and on their role as a gender, and considers, among other things, the right to life from conception, contradicting scientific consensus and the right to voluntary interruption of pregnancy collected in state legislation, something that should not happen. Thirdly, we consider it essential to provide psychological support to victims of violence, also to minors, in primary care, by expanding in this sense the resources of the mental health area of Sergas and thus developing article 25 of Law 11/2017, for the prevention and comprehensive treatment against gender violence. Logically, this type of specialized support must gradually spread, and it is currently being rendered efficiently by means of an agreement with the Official College of Psychology of Galicia. But it must start from the indispensable provision of more means for all the mental health of Sergas, an aspect infra-dominated in our health system. On the other hand, we want to remember that there were discrepancies in the commission about whether or not there was an assessment of the degree of development of Law 11/2017, for the comprehensive prevention and treatment of gender-based violence. But the object of the committee we understand was clear in this regard, yes, it was within the subjects to be discussed in the committee, although it was not exclusive — one thing is that it is not exclusive and something else that cannot be addressed. We consider it necessary to assess that there are still missing points to develop from that law and that in the future, it is necessary to build on awareness and resources to specifically address sexual violence. We also arrive at the commitment of the parliamentary groups to develop without delay a Greek pact against gender-based violence, which we consider — and this is our particular position — that must be taken into account before this X legislation is over. It is important that we do not leave for the next one the continuation of this joint commitment to work against macho violence. The closure of the Equality Commission has taken too long — as you know — as you know. Welcome to the end of this legislation, but let's not leave unopened tasks that should continue in the XI legislation and lay the foundations. The fourth point I mentioned earlier, and we want to be very clear. We think that we should explicitly reject any kind of pact or agree with the negationist forces of Machism. In Marea it was the first political force in an autonomous chamber to propose this debate as early as January 2019. If you remember, we proposed to close the passage, as a democratic bloc in which we place all the political forces in this House, to agreements with political forces that materially uphold non-democratic values. First of them, Machism; secondly, homophobia and supremacy; and thirdly, the denial of Galician self-government. Well, at that time, unfortunately, we didn't get the support of the People's Party. We want, a year after that debate, to make a call again to reflect on all the negative consequences and on the return of rights in the field of equality, in the field of machismo and in the field of fighting against gender violence that has assumed that decision and also in relation to the defence of Galician self-government. Finally, the Greek Covenant against Gender Violence must establish clear deadlines, budgets and follow-up mechanisms to ensure its development. It takes, ultimately, its juridization; that is, the establishment of concrete control elements that make them even legally protective; and, of course, measures to materialize what is now collected in the paper, therefore, with very concrete economic memory and development contents in concrete terms as well. Already in the immediate future of this Greek Covenant against Violence, I would like to take advantage of to make a series of brushes which are essential for us and which should therefore sink into the joint line of work. Firstly, equal employment. We understand that it is not compatible with a fair and democratic society the persistence of the gender pay gap, which, as you know, reaches 29% in our country, as a result of a labour market which penalises women with lower wages, with greater partiality, with greater temporality and with greater occupation in the tasks of unpaid care and reconciliation, which penalises professional career. And in this very work environment it is essential to put emphasis on the prevention of sexual harassment and to eliminate the intolerable labour penalty that many victims of male violence suffer, as they themselves recalled in their own commission. Secondly, breaking the feminization of poverty is also a structural element of inequality, and poverty rates, although they have converged in recent times, are worse in women and especially in monomantal families. In this way, Risga is an insufficient and feminized benefit. We must therefore work on more social protection mechanisms with a view to gender. In this regard, we also add measures to combat so-called menstrual poverty, starting with our non-law proposal adopted in this House for the reduction of VAT in female hygienic products. Thirdly, affective-sexual education from childhood, which, instead of occurring, is recently on the line of encouraging educational censorship. Training and information are the basis of a free public opinion and a democratic society and also the future of the guarantee, of the persistence of democracy in younger generations. That is why it is indecent, in democratic terms, to deny them training and information. I have already finished with two additional measures: the promotion of equal sport, the need for full development and the evaluation of the Equality Plan in educational centres and, finally, the eradication of practices...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u49	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u50	...that may constitute obstetric violence. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. Villares. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. I wanted to start with where Mrs. Prado del Río finished as chairman of the commission and for the gratitude that she preceded us in previous legislations as well as in the services of the House as well as to the people and groups who were present - with the exception of the National Police and the Civil Guard, who refused to come to appear in the German Parliament - as well as to the comrades and colleagues of the other parliamentary groups for the work done in recent years. Regardless of the discrepancies that have led us to present both amendments and a particular vote, we want to point out here that we understand that the work we have done has been positive, although the result to us — I insist — does not satisfy us and that makes us maintain that particular vote. I wanted to explain the discrepancies that led us to do so, which may seem like a method, but which in the end and after all are also of political background. We understand from the very first moment - and thus we express it at the meetings of the presentation and in the committee itself - that we could not act as mere puns or transcripts of what experts have come to tell the committee. First, because it would be less honest to think that in our own choice of approaches there is also no political criterion that we have each one of us. And secondly, because the Galicians and the Greeks didn't choose us for that. This is a parliament, it's not a class; therefore, it's not a matter that we hear a lesson and reproduce it, but that we draw a conclusion. I'm setting a different example. Imagine that there are experts from the medical field coming to tell us that it's very bad smoking in closed spaces for those who smoke and for those who breathe that smoke, and that our conclusion is to reproduce that instead of taking measures like those that were taken on their day to ban smoking on a train, a hemicycle or a university. For us this saying is a teenager of that, that plus promoting new and different issues that we already had. That doesn't mean we're undervalued to have reached this point. It must be seen from the perspective that it is no less for the political moment in which we live, where the parliamentary dialogue is important. This collective reflection also leads to feminism in its DNA, although we also have to recognize that it was difficult in a political context where there are also political forces that deal with the negationists of gender violence and with people and collectives who want to illegalize sovereignist forces as I represent. But, despite that, we have tried, despite that, we have drawn all our will from the very first moment, with the limitations that a small group has, sometimes, like our own, and the limitations that have also had the electoral schedule in loops in recent years. But I believe and I can proudly assert that no one can say that the BNG did not put everything on its side so that this dictation was as good as possible, although it seems to us that this objective was not achieved. In fact, as early as January 18th, 2019, we put forward a proposal for the debate with many of the issues that we come to today in our particular vote. It is clear that we have had an important difference with the majority group of the House, but also with other groups, about which method it should be and which one should be the final horizon. But, in any case, we understand that, in a context where other non-permanent commissions such as disability or road safety are still working on the dictatorship, or in a context where we have a parliament that has embarrassing examples such as the Committee on Boxes, the Committee on the Seamen or the Committee on Health, which the People's Party has perverted since the first moment - they still have no conclusions - here has been taken a step, although — I insist — does not meet our expectations. Anyway, I wanted to explain a little why. If we look at the statement we are debating today, we wonder if we have any results that translate into a firm commitment to something different from what is already in law. And for us the answer is no. That's why we presented this alternative dictation, basically for two reasons. First because we understand that the goals of the workplan are not met. Mr. Villares, I added: is that this objective was exclusive, and I will read it: "Assessing the application in the various areas of competition of the law of 2004 and the law of 2007". The question is: Does this dictate to me the fulfilment of the Greek Law of macho violence? The answer is no, don't evaluate it. He didn't evaluate that target, which is marked and, therefore, to us, that invalidates this dictation. And the second reason is that, if we go to the contents, there are interesting proposals, there are nuances, issues that seem enriching to us, but the truth is that if we make a comparison between the Greek law of 2007 almost thirteen years ago and what comes up with this dictation, we don't see great progress. And I can set examples. For example, in point 4.1.14 it speaks of work insertion. That's Article 35 of the Galician Law of Male Violence. 4.6.5, to promote studies and research. That's chapter II of the Welsh Law of macho violence. He speaks of psychological care in article 25 of the Welsh Law of male violence. In point 4.6.8 of the dictatorship, about secondary victimization, and there is a specific article in the Welsh Law of male violence. Point 4.2.2, on strengthening associationism, the same; of the rural environment, the same; of education, the same. That's it, though. So, as much as there are matters that can be enriching, there is not a single firm commitment to advance the law of 2007. We think that we are the daughters of a story, that we have to have a collective responsibility and that if we took a giant step in 2007 what we cannot do now in 2020 is not move a single millimeter of that frame. [[Applause]] For us today it is a process, and it seems to us that this is limiting. We understand that it is not evaluated whether or not the law has been complied with for the past 12 years. We understand that we can set out half of the issues that are covered by the Law itself of male violence and we want to make a reflection here today. Since 2014 this work plan has been approved, a lot of things have happened in this country. Lots of things have happened and the degree of demands from the street has increased greatly. It's not new for social pressure to go faster than the legislative power or it's going to be something that we can break the thread of history and make that not happen. But the truth is, we have to ask ourselves, how many women have been murdered since this work plan was approved in our country? I was upset to collect the data collected by the World Women's March in this country, because, indeed, society has advanced, although statistics have not advanced in many respects, and 40 women have been murdered, 40 women! Can we do this with a saying that it doesn't mean a qualitative leap towards the Law of Violence? We think it's insufficient and we do it with a constructive spirit because we understand that we are able to give a broader answer from Galicia. So despite the differences in method and approach, we contributed up to the last minute that this dictation was as good as possible. That is why we were also an amending group in the committee itself, and that is why we complement it with this particular vote, which cites for us what should be the way forward. In this time there have been many things, there have also been two absolutely historic March 8 in this country that we cannot ignore. We cannot offer the society that is outside this single House and exclusively a small range of proposals which, in many cases, are already incorporated into the law or which we have voted in this Parliament in recent months. We understand that we cannot conform and that this dictatorship is not up to historical circumstances. In any case, we insist that we have complete will and complete availability for this legislation to actually come out of a Greek pact against masculine violence, so it was us from the BNG that we pushed in January 2017, as a result of one of our first interpelerations, a motion on which the whole House was committed to that issue. We do this and we will continue to do it, and that is why one of the amendments we tabled in this process was, precisely, that within two months we committed ourselves to closing budgets, planning and watching follow-up. It wasn't accepted, but we understand that we still have a margin in the next few months to make it a reality. This saying isn't the best starting point for us, but it's there, we're going to take advantage of it and we're also going to build positively around it. Anyway, I wanted to finish with three very brief notes on our particular vote. We mention the issue of feminicide. We thank you for your willingness to come to a dictatorship that does not force us to vote against, as there was some question about feminicide that initially does, but we collect in our proposal a development of feminicide that goes further...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u53	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u54	...to limit it to the criminal framework, because we understand and defend it from the very first moment that when we talk about incorporating feminicide, we're not talking exclusively about the area...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u55	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u56	...penal; we agree that this scope must not be developed, but there are many more aspects. We also included in our assessment of the law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u57	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u58	...which is not included and, finally, a battery of proposals open for debate; in some we know there are discrepancies, but others we understand that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u59	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u60	...would have been a good starting point. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u61	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. For the Joint Parliamentary Group on the Left, Mrs Quinteiro Araújo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u62	Thank you, President. We also, of course, want to begin by thanking all the people, entities and institutions who have come to appear in this committee, also all the Members who have been part of the committee, in the previous legislation, but the first thing we want to point out is that in our view this ruling comes too late. We don't think we can take it for granted. I think we have to criticise that the commission's work had been extended during two legislated periods and that it had concluded only with this part, which is purely descriptive. In our view, this dictame is a first step, but it does not meet all the objectives that have been set in the framework of the committee. We believe that there are a lot of issues to be included in this dictatorship, that we believe they should go beyond this initial work, that concrete measures are lacking and, above all, that we need to translate the recommendations that put the dictatorship into concrete measures, with a clear timetable and with an budget, with an implementation date, because if we do not, we understand that everything will simply remain on a paper with good intentions, but that it will not have that real translation. It is precisely for these eyves that we intend to present a particular vote. The evas have to do with what he said about the lack of realization of all the measures that have not been implemented in this part. We understand that they should go backward, but the most important thing for us is that these measures have clear data and an allocation of budget. We also understand that the task of this commission, as mentioned here too, was a reductionist, and that it was not met with all the objectives. We believe that we must be aware that it has not been done until today a rigorous assessment of the application of legislation on equality - in fact, we have talked about this issue many times in this Parliament - and we believe that there is a repeated failure to comply with many articles of the current legislation. It's been 13 years since the passing of that law, which I assumed a great normative advance, of course, but 13 years later the balance is that there's a very scarce, totally insufficient development, and that there was no political will to do it either. At the same time in this Parliament on many occasions when we discussed certain issues and our parliamentary group brought out non-law proposals that brought about compliance with the legislation, compliance with certain articles of legislation that were not being guaranteed, the People's Party voted against, even proposals that were only asked for strict compliance with the legislation, for example, with regard to the media and the treatment of male violence. That's why, by taking stock of the recent years of the People's Party's policies and also of the latest decisions made by the People's Party, we don't understand the abstract calls to consensus. We have made everything available in this committee and on many other occasions to work and achieve consensus that really requires us to make progress in women's lives; real consensus, with real application, concrete measures, but what we are not going to accept is a framework where it is said that when we talk about equality yes or whether we have to reach consensus. There are obvious political differences, and then I'll talk about what these differences are, and there are also inconsistencies in the government between what they say they defend and what they then apply. We also have to repeat -- because this is a novelty of recent times -- that they deal with the extreme right, we understand that there is no, that they can't talk about defending equality, it's an absolute contradiction. They're evading us as they rule with people who are denying the existence of macho violence, as long as they have no clarity about what they're going to do in the next elections. We understand you can't have any more incoherence. It's incompatible to deal with the extreme right and say they defend women's rights. And, as I say, it's not only because of these pacts with the negationists, it's that, too, if we make an evolution and analyze their political action in recent years, we see how there was really not a defense of equality, not only for not complying with the legislation, as I said, but for many other specific cases. On March 8th, they went directly against the women. They have convictions for imposing totally abusive minimum services on the feminist strike. There are Machist statements of March 8 of the People's Party's voices that are totally unacceptable, even from the president himself. They have continued all these years by funding an organization that goes directly against women's rights, an anti-abortist organization, such as Red Mother, which denies or intends to deny women's decision-making capacity, and continues to dismantle family planning centres. That's why we're not going to believe they want to defend women's sexual and reproductive rights now, because their policies go right against the line. We also keep insisting that they continue to fund schools that segregate by sex, and it doesn't make any sense that we put measures for equal education when they continue to fund these schools. Law violations are sometimes so serious that we see how in thirteen years they haven't been able to implement an equality plan within the public administration itself. How are we going to think that the government will make businesses comply with equality plans when they themselves have not even been able to implement this equality plan? Now they're trying to do it in a fast pre-election year and without following the minimum procedures. They also had convictions for denying conciliation rights. And to us this issue seems very important, because lately we see how they're trying to sell fake conciliation measures to sell that Christmas idea. We'll soon talk about the law of demographic impulse, but then they don't apply a single measure that favors the real reconciliation of women. On the contrary, we've spent many years of dependency cuts, we've spent many years where more and more women have to take care of care at home and many years privatizing all these services. They have the reception network and the network of fully undersized CIMs, so for all those actions and for many others that I wouldn't give time to report today, we don't believe these supposed good intentions, because the facts are there. In all these years, they remained completely alien to what the feminist movement posed in the streets, they didn't want to listen, and we're going to repeat it: what we need are firm measures and budget, more public money, and they're always denied. A 1 % of the budget set seems to us a totally necessary amount, a minimum, a minimum amount, because the situation no longer allows, is unbearable. Feminicides continue to be there and are only the most visible part. Behind the murders are all the everyday violence that women live in all, absolutely all, the spheres of our life, such as insults, aggression, condescension, overburdening the work of care, cossification and a long et cetera, and no action is being taken to end these violences. We believe that there is absolute disillusionment by the Administration to end, for example, with this work of care that women do, even with the payroll, that we see as it shoots in the jobs where the payroll is better. The Government has to offer clear tools. And this saying, in our view, is a first step, but it doesn't respond to all the urgent needs of women. We will continue to have all the disposition and will count on all our work, as we have come so far, but if we wanted to emphasize that we are not worth a false consensus, a false call to unity, because there are political differences. Their political action is often totally different from what they then carry forward, and we want clear commitments, firm and clear commitments and that they are not only propaganda, because we understand that women's rights cannot be negotiated, and in recent times the People's Party is negotiating with these rights when it deals with those who deny male violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u63	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quinteiro. The Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor to Mrs. Pierres López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u64	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. After listening to the different voices and voices, I can only express sympathy on the part of the Socialist Group with a large part of its exhibitions and with the common fund of our particular vows. It's just that the statement that this dictation is a point and followed by our task of achieving responses and actions against masculine violence, but in no case can it be understood as a point and end, which we understand would be desirable. Does this mean that we deny the work done up to the moment or that we will also downvalue the contributions of all expert people? Obviously not. Moreover, we also want to thank and believe that it is important to highlight this generosity of all the people who have participated in the committee, of all the rapporteurs, of all the people who are drafters of the reports, of Members and Members and of course of the services of the House, who have contributed to the good doing of it, both in this legislative process and in the previous one. All his testimonies have undoubtedly broadened our knowledge of the Greek reality of equality and the incidence of male violence, and their conclusions will undoubtedly serve as the basis for the elaboration of the measures and actions necessary to combat all inequalities and all violent behaviour against women. That's the ultimate reason for our abstention from saying: to see that this is a document that is inconclusive; a document that, as already pointed out here, is merely descriptive of the statements of all the rapporteurs; a document that is multi-colored and that I would even dare to say that it is aseptic, in which it is basically concluded that there is macho violence in many areas of our life and of our Greek society. A document, therefore, that draws our context better, but that in no way assumes the challenge of focusing on and describing the measures needed to combat violence, nor to solve the obvious difficulties to meet -- as it has already been said here -- with many of the mandates of the self-government laws that today are vigilant and that continue to fail. To vote in favour, therefore, without the issuance of this particular vote that at least this important issue would be to favour the completion of the commission's task at this point and, therefore, to betray the last task that has taken us to the Greek citizenship, which is to work, precisely, to meet the solutions to the problem of male violence. Therefore, in our particular vow, no one intends to find turns and turns. There is only the need to better point out the final end of the commission and to act from the absolute transparency with Greek citizenship. And in order to better understand our position, it is also necessary to remember the example of work developed in other joint committees that have been carried out following the process that we are today -- understanding -- we all claim, both in the presentation created in the Senate and in the Sub-Commission on Equality in Congress. The resulting dictates contained both the measures that would soon form part of the State Covenant against Gender Violence; something which seemed logical, for that was the order of the different groups, to draw the conclusions, but also the measures that should be put in place. Well it's true -- and I also want to point out that no one explains it for us -- that our group, like the rest of the groups, finally agreed to conclude this part only with the rapporteurs' conclusions and not with those of the groups in order not to prolong the issue of this part of the report any longer in time. And we did it because we were and we are aware that, after several years - because we talked about years - it was more widely not desirable for any of us, and it is that many of the issues or problems that were being dealt with and were being shaped in that document were already in a totally out-of-date context of the current one, with some debates and problems — I repeat — that were already overcome, even by measures that have already been launched from the autonomic point of view, but also from the state and even from the local one. In any case, and precisely for this reason, it seems important to us today to note this need for the completion of a process that we understand - and I repeat - inconclusive. It is also not understood as a question of lack of trust or commitment on our part to the completion of the process, it is an act of mere transparency to make clear to the entire citizen that the last end has not yet been conquered and that this is, I insist, one more step but in no case the goal pursued. And beyond that main reason, which I think is explained enough, it is also necessary to understand how this commission arose and the tasks of it, and what was the position of the PSdEG then, which is neither alien to what we hold today. The non-permanent study commission for equality and women's rights, at its meeting on January 14, 2014, adopted a series of agreements to establish precisely its own rules of operation. Collect the object itself and its duration from among other points. The Socialist Parliamentary Group has shown itself on its day against the limitation of the objectives of this committee - only the assessment of the laws of State equality or Welsh, and of course the only one in which we had powers - which it has already stated on its day with an amendment to the rules of operation and which collected in a far broader sense the object of the commission, understanding the end of this as a useful tool for the evaluation of all laws and also of all the regulations which collect measures in defence of women's rights or equality; amends that it has been rejected. So our group has already assumed on its day that reduction in the commission's duties, but then it also now understands that the achievement, in any case, of a Greek pact against gender violence should contain measures that worked to ensure not only compliance with the law of equality in Greece but also, of course, the rest of the rules and laws that cross-borderly safeguard women's equality and non-violence or discrimination. Even so, understanding the fundamental part of the Government at every moment, responsible for the design and put in place of autonomous policies, we also believe that it is essential to demand coherence and commitment in the implementation of measures, especially those already reflected in the Act of current equality, as has already been commented and emphasized, and that they were not motivated by desire and, in any case, by failure of the Government's will. We applaud the Government's willingness, of course, to promote the pacts, as it has done with its recent record of a proposal in such a direction, but in any case, we believe that this should not be accelerated or conditioned, and what is most important, must respond to a participatory process throughout citizenship. So far we have a presentation paper that reflects the opinion of experts each in his/her/its field of work, but Greek citizenship, associative movement and feminist movement should also have lived. Any victim, in addition, who knows better than anyone, the difficulties he's encountering or finding in his daily life, in order not to be revitalized, in order not to be stigmatized, in order not to be stigmatized, in order to be supported by all these issues, has to have a voice in this very important final process. And that's why we believe that the Government has to make this pact an exemplary process of participation and transparency, and that it's not one-way, but totally two-way. And in that sense, our particular vote goes, which aims to add to the document of the motion the addition of a point which refers to these proposals and strategies in which it is necessary to consider, among other things, the need to develop, before the end of the legislation, a Greek pact against gender violence which contains, at least, the measures and actions needed to ensure and promote the proper enforcement of the current law for the prevention and comprehensive treatment of gender violence; a pact which is accompanied by a sufficient budgetary commitment to allow its immediate implementation, but also an annual assessment of the degree of execution of the proposed objectives and which is at all times accessible to the knowledge of the entire citizen. It also guarantees, once I know the content of the non-permanent study by the Commission for equality and the rights of women, the different social groups or individuals to carry out their approaches to this pact in order to meet the opinions of the entire citizenship, as well as to update the views or conclusions gathered in the presentation that could be obsolete over time. But we also believe that it is necessary to demand the Government's maximum and real commitment to the Welsh Law for the prevention and comprehensive treatment of gender-based violence and for the immediate implementation of those actions already covered by the law, especially those which, by not requiring extraordinary budgetary allocation and by having their own means for their development, could already be put in place. And finally, once this committee's current work plan is completed and completed, we understand that it needs to start as soon as possible a new work plan for the evaluation of the rest of the laws or actions that in relation to equality or women's rights can carry out public administrations in Galicia. We believe it's all reasonable petitions that at nothing contradict what really should have been the minimum content...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u65	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u66	...of a final presentation, of a study commission like this, and its purpose should not be to make publications but rather to provide solutions and actions. For our own sake, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u67	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. García Míguez has the floor. We take advantage to greet the students of the Sacred Heart of Ferrol College, students of 4th of the ESO who have just entered the plenary. We salute them on behalf of all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u68	Good morning. I am surprised, in fact, by their arguments, that, rather than being the arguments that experts and all the visitors gave us at work, in the hard and intense work we had with this dictatorship, they remained exactly the same in the different political groups, both of the Socialist Party and of the Nationalist Galego Block and of the Tides at that time, and now with their excision. I am surprised they were exactly the same in 2013 as now in 2020. I'm very sorry that they had this way of acting and that they didn't learn anything from everything they recommended. Because, in the end, this saying is a work with a lot of content, a work of enrichment, not only personal for each one we could be there, but also for all political groups. And we need to be able to have a positioning, to have a strategy and to be able to provide the necessary measures to end and end this situation in an effective and efficient way, within our competences, and to do everything possible to make this situation no longer a reality, as, unfortunately, it continues to happen. Today we will present, in fact, the evaluation of all visitors, the evaluation of our Spanish Law of 2007, of comprehensive prevention and treatment against gender violence, as well as of the 2014 Organic Law against Violence, as well as the analysis of the implementation of local, state and autonomous policies on what is being done and how is being done. And we will also propose concrete improvement measures, which is the end of this document, to propose concrete improvement measures. I would like to begin by thanking the work of each of the honourable Members who have previously been working on this committee, who were Cristina Romero Fernández, Eva Solla Fernández, Carme Adán Villamarín, Carme Acuña Docampo and Rosa Oubina Solla, and also in this X legislation, of Dolores Toja Suárez, who I know will be glad that we are here today finishing this work. As you know, there were four opinions in the Equality Commission in this Parliament, two of them working, one on the socialization of minors and adolescents and one on the situation of female prostitution in Galicia. But the reality is that this one has many peculiarities. This is what has been the longest in time, with more than seven years, from 2013 to 2020. The work plan had to be approved unanimously, Mrs. Pierres. Twice it was approved unanimously in 2013 and also in 2017, with which all the political groups agreed to carry out this dictatorship. Also, it was what had the greatest content, the most complete: 22 reports and more than 80 technical files from the information centers to the woman. And, in addition, it was also where most experts and professionals came up, specifically 83 people from all areas, as the chairman of the committee said earlier. They've been nearly three times as many of the attendees as in other diets. As far as working meetings are concerned, I want to tell you that, in order to reach this dictatorship, we had to do a two-year job, and, Mrs. Quinteiro, I don't know every political group's responsibility for this to be approved sooner or later, but the reality is that each one should evaluate what was his disposition, his ability and his anxiety so that we could finish it in time as soon as possible. So to blame others is very easy, but I think we should make a personal reflection. It is very important that the historical moment at which we are and these laws, both the Galician, who is 13 years old, and the state, 16 years old, are in puberty. Puberty is the time of change; with which, if any changes were to be made, it would be a good time. In the symbolism of the State Covenant, the solution of gender-based violence was prioritized as a matter of state, with a contribution of EUR 1 billion and with assumptions that are still being carried out by a government of the People's Party. Let's remember that state pact was thanks to a People's Party government. Mrs. Pierres, I'm telling you there'll be a Greek pact. We have already registered the proposal so that there will be debate in this Parliament and will be able to reach it by consensus and with unity. The measures will be reflected here. You, instead of talking about the dictatorship today, came here about the measures, the future measures of the pact, exactly like Mr. Villares. I understand that you have no knowledge of the dictate because you have not participated directly in it, but you know that the measures for the pact are where you have to put them, those measures that you were talking about, and that there will be an budget, as could not be otherwise, just as there was in the State Pact. After 38 years of birth of this Parliament we will be able to approve this future Greek Pact and I think we must try to be all one in order for this to happen, so that all the political groups in Galicia can assume that we can come to an agreement by and for the victims of gender violence and for their children and, of course, to work everywhere so that batterers can change their conduct. They made it very clear to the visitors what the next line was. The president of the Observatory against Gender Violence, María Ángeles Carmona, indicated that Spain is vanguarded in the fight against gender violence, and Galicia is a pioneer, since our Welsh law is far above state law. I want us to do exactly the same for the content of the intervention of Vice-President of the Galician Union, Mr Alfonso Rueda, because I sincerely believe that this is the spirit, and not only from the Popular Parliamentary Group, but all the visitors and all the experts have indicated it to us. I'm going to say specifically what their words are: "They are undoubtedly figures without reason, figures that should not be given but that are given and therefore we are faced with a social problem of first magnitude which questions all the values, all the principles of coexistence, dignity, freedom and equality that our democracy wants to defend. And that's why I'm convinced that especially in this area it would be necessary to move the nuances that are necessary, but to transfer a message of unity, a message of consensus and a message without cracks, or at least, lordship, without cracks that made this message useless." Now to finish, with regard to the measures proposed in the committee and the conclusions, as was previously reported, there are eight large areas and within these eight large areas, I'm going to report just a few, because for lack of time we can't specify each of them - but I want to point out some because I think they are very important -. Within the area of economics and employment, particularly we are dealing with issues of expanding networks of children's schools, of networks of care centres for older people and of conciliation measures. Within the rural and sea environment, we also want to consolidate women's association movement and implement reconciliation and co-responsibility measures within the rural sphere. Within health care, we want to create a plan for equality in Welsh public health. As you know, the committee's work started in 2013, we're in 2020. There are many measures that are obsolete, but not because at that time they were not pioneers but because they are already being carried out. With regard also to the health area, which Mr. Villares made a point about this, this shows a lack of knowledge of the dictation. I recommend you read it for the kid, because he will realize that we agree on many more points than you believe. It should be noted that within point 3 of Health, it states in point 4.3.7: "Ensure sufficient and continuous psychological care that favours the empowerment of all women victims, especially of the most vulnerable groups, women with disabilities or victims of trafficking." Besides, that's already going on. Within the social area, there are measures to prevent and combat sexual violence, trafficking and sexual exploitation. We have recently adopted here in this Parliament a plan for the fight against trafficking and sexual exploitation and also for state legislation to eradicate this problem. With regard to education and awareness-raising, it is about promoting training specialized in gender equality and co-education in education professionals. And the promotion of equality in sport, Mr. Villares, which you pointed out, is in the document. In 4.6, the Administration, the first point...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u69	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u70	...—I have finished—is the Programme to support the network of women's information centres to promote equality at the local level, Mrs Quinteiro. You, who are the voice of equality in your group, seem a lie to ask for something that is already within the measures and to propose it here as if it were a novelty. It's already collected inside the dictame. I think I should have a little bit more...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u71	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u72	And just to finish, I mean something about the term "feminicide." They know that all the visitors arrived -- I think it was unanimously -- to renounce the incorporation of the term "feminicide" because it does not take place in our society, in Galicia, or in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u73	Thank you very much. The role of the parliamentary groups to define the particular votes cast by the others or for the reply. First of all, you have the floor, by the Mixed Group, Mr. Villares Naveira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u74	The voice of the People's Party never ceases to fascinate us in the sense that, while announcing the vote in favour of dictatorship in the search for consensus in such a sensitive area as equality and the fight against macho violence, it is not so happy. I welcome that you refer to a number of our concrete measures and proposals for the materialization of the Greek Pact against male violence in order to demonstrate here, from this rostrum, that they will support them, because what we are really doing is to provide concrete aspects which are set out in very general terms and on which it has not been possible until now to reach a consensus. That's why they don't go on saying it, and if we can't go on saying it, that's why we move our will to continue walking and to continue to specify, specifically in mental health, in the area of the eradication of macho violence in sport, etc., all these contents. So I want to celebrate the intervention of the People's Party in this regard. Come here and remind us that this is not the pact itself. Well, of course it's not the pact, but it's the basis on which it's then called to form that pact. So we can give our opinion -- and that's also part of our particular vote -- about how to build that pact in concrete as well. And I say in concrete, because we are talking about two ways of conceiving - different, certainly - the value of political pacts in the Parliamentary House. We want a legal standard that has the full capacity to force, to be able to create rights for people, for women in particular, and obligations for public authorities. We therefore want the full judicialization of those commitments that are acquired in this House, because, if not, then what happens is that continuously what has been committed to with beautiful words has no budgetary backing, no deadlines and no recognition of objective rights. And that can't be, because if we don't, we're making simple toasts to the sun as long as women continue to die, as long as they remain discriminated against and as long as they suffer the macho violence of a patriarchate that obviously won't disappear from society by good; it's necessary to be accompanied by firm measures to advance in equality. Therefore, full legalization, which will be what we will ask for in that covenant. And that also consistent with another idea, from paper to reality, from materializing rights. The materialization and materiality of the right is that it can be exercised as a right of subjective character and that it can be demanded, if any, before the courts. That's why we also talk about several questions. We are talking, first, of deadlines, so that what is stated as necessary does not go into a drawer; and deadlines also so that those legal statements or in the pact that require a regulatory development do not sleep neither the dream of the righteous, but that they have a development in concrete terms so that they can be activated in specific times. And in addition, we keep saying it very clearly: it is necessary that the agreements are valid to recognize new rights which are not yet recognised. The statement that this is needed or that the other one is required, if one does not recognize a subjective right, as one has the right to provide or to act in a certain way, nothing will be advanced, because when the rule is directed solely to public administrations and administrations can choose to do and not do the only control that can be taken is the political control that we do here, that in an absolute majority scenario we already know how it will be deduced. In the meantime, the population affected by those measures that have not just been implemented has nothing to do with the reality of those rights. So we have to say this because we believe that progress should be made in building the pact in this way. It must also be clear that every kind of pact must be accompanied by an economic memory, a budgetary development in time, so that they are effective and we are not as we are now, in many other standards, pending a development that never comes. Even though we have made amendments to the budgets since En Marea, they refuse them continuously, and that prevents the development and implementation of the rights that are stated. But, well, of course, for all this we need to have clear political will beyond the mere declaration of intentions, and that is why the political wills - and all opposition groups - are affected - are also reflected in the wishes of the political pact. And we no longer speak of this political pact, we speak of that other political pact that allows the People's Party to continue ruling in certain autonomous communities, in certain municipalities, the cost of dealing with the far right and the cost of giving up fighting for equality between women and men. And look, we've been saying it several times since En Marea. Let us not doubt the sincere will of many and many of you to continue to move forward in equality and to fight against machismo. We don't doubt it, but what we do have is the certainty that that will is truncated as a result of the pacts with the extreme right. You prevent them from making greater and better equality policies, so of course!, and make us back in the fight against machismo, as in the fight against homophobia, the fight against racial supremacy and the defense of the country's self-government. So, of course, we have to say the clear things, and that's why we tell them that they have to choose who they want to make the pact with. This pact -- which is called after this dictatorship -- is the pact with the whole of Galician society, is in favour of everyone and is not against anyone, the difference in the pacts that you make with the extreme right in Spain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u75	Thank you, Mr. Villares. For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u76	Thank you, Mr. President. Good day again to all and to all. The spokesperson for the People's Party said she was surprised at what the groups said. As far as we've said in the name of the Galego Nationalist Block, let's be honest, that's what we've been saying for three years; that is, you can't be surprised at what I said here. I understand that you don't like it, that you don't share it, that there are many differences, but of course, in honesty at all those hours that we've been discussing and debating, disagreeing and understanding, because I think it's fair to acknowledge that the Nationalist Block Galego has had a coherent position from the beginning and that we haven't seen here saying anything we haven't said. [[Applause]] In those debates we are happy with all that time we invested, I wish it had been more, because I think we all got close to each other in some respects. And there are such issues as the one percent defense for masculine violence -- which initially defended the BNG and which has now been assumed by more groups -- that I am convinced that at some point the People's Party will also assume. So I think we can give a mature, adult debate, since divergence, in many cases, since convergence in some others, as does feminism outside of this Parliament, and without pretending to hide in false victims the radicalization of some speech or the failure to comply with the law. They ask for consensus. It will not be by consensus that we have not woven the hand of the Galician Nationalist Block too with this majority group!, but what we cannot expect is that we are voting for a work plan in 2014, in 2017, that this work plan is not being complied with and that we have no repair to put on the table, because the question is that there was an objective, which was to evaluate compliance with the Law on Male Violence. Do you have that goal? No, the assessment of compliance with the Law of Male Violence is only in the individual vote of the Nationalist Block of Wales, and that's what leads us to the fact that we cannot support it with one. But believe me if I tell them it's also an effort for our band to abstain in this vote. It's an effort also thanks to the collective effort we've made, and it's also made the majority group of the House to remove some issues with which we had a diametrical opposition, such as, for example, that killing that made one of the comparable people on the issue of feminicide and that that discriminates trans people. It was only necessary for the group that voted against the Trans Law, which proposed the Greek collectives, to accuse us after transphobics for defending feminicide, for setting an example. [[Applause]] We abstained, because there was an effort everywhere to find a text as much consensus as possible, although for us it is insufficient and it does not have an evaluation. But we also abstain because we think it's a sign of dialogue for firm action in the coming months. Of course, there you will have us, no doubt about it. I want to ask you and the whole House for a favor. Please, when we talk about the Greek Pact, I think it would help us all and put aside the example of the State Pact, because I don't think it's an example that we have to follow, because it has failed, because economic commitments have not been fulfilled, and because three years later we have to be demanding still basic issues such as assuming a broader definition of macho violence. I think it's not a mirror to look at, that we have to think about our own history, about the 2007 agreements and think about how we can move forward from there, and of course we will. Now he announced that they're going to bring in a non-law proposition so we can make a pact. It looks great to us. We've brought a motion in 2017. We will be in favour, and indeed, if they voted in favour of the amendment we tabled to the dictatorship where we committed a two-month deadline to achieve budgeting, planning and follow-up mechanisms, we no longer needed to debate it. But nothing happens, the whole debate is little and we're not going to compete for the motherhood of the concept "Greek pact." We're not interested in that, but there's something real. And, of course, they'll have us there. They can't accuse us of not being elected because I remind you that the previous legislation ended at the last plenary session of the Greek Parliament with an agreement to amend the law of macho violence driven by the BNG. We had no problem voting with the majority group of the House at the last plenary session of the Greek Parliament. I believe that we are not going to have any problems in doing so again, if what is put at the table really requires that consensus, because it brings about a change and a long-term commitment. We're not going to stop it because of electoralism. You see in others your own flaws. Now the ball's on your roof. If you want us to start, we'll start right now. I have the next debate, but if Mr. Vice-President of the Board is still there, we can join the commission with him, which is what the key to money is, and we can start talking about that Greek pact. We don't have any problems, we're going to be there, but also, I'm telling you, as I always did the BNG, always and when there's a firm commitment to make progress, because while society's asking for giant steps, what we can't do is change posture from the same position just to make us do and that doesn't translate into something real. We won't be there. If they want to do anything else, of course they do, as we have always done, and as our own history prevails. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. For the Parliamentary Group on the Left, Mrs Quinteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u78	Thank you, President. As a first nuance, that the People's Party intends to let it fall that the commission's work has been delayed by some groups, and specifically by my own, I will not allow it. He knows perfectly well, and all the emails are there... if he dropped it, he seems very offensive and that he should correct, because the layout was always absolute, always! I won't allow that. The only ones who have paralysed the pact for a while and those who have been agreed to resume it publicly, without speaking to the equality honourable Members, were you. Mrs. Paula Prado gave a press round when Mr. Married went out to say that he was going to make and push the Greek Pact in Galicia, when we were already working within the framework of the commission. They were the only ones, and we didn't say anything at that time, but, then, that they still come over here saying that if he's been late for so many years to see who he depends on, we won't let him. [[Applause]] And then, after that, they do a lot of demagogy, because, of course, as we're going to abstain in this vote, they say the opposition wants to stay the way we were in 2013. No, what the opposition wants is concrete measures, with a specific timetable, with concrete budgets, and out of the inconsistencies of the People's Party, which are in the press every day for their political actions. What the People's Party wants is to have a document, as if it were definitive, which are recommendations - that we listen and thank - to all the visitors and entities who have come to appear and brought up a lot of questions; issues that we have already come to hear before and which is good to hear them, but which are not enough. It's likely that many of the visitors didn't seem enough to them either. We agreed to close this first part, because it couldn't last any longer in time and because two years of delay was no longer admissible. We accepted it, but with the firm commitment that what was left was the most important. The work that was left was the most important: concrete measures, a timetable and a real debate with society as a whole, especially with the feminist movement. This should not be limited to the framework of the Members we formed the Equality Commission. By listening to your intervention, we reaffirm ourselves in our vote, because you intend with this saying to do as this is the final point, not the starting point. They intend to make this the last step and reach a great deal of agreement and consensus. Agreement and consensus, why? For what? Because if they really had the political will to reach an agreement and a consensus would start by fulfilling, for example, equality legislation, because it did not have a minute here to talk about repeated non-compliances. And he says that this saying was trying to make an assessment of the legislation, when he knows perfectly that it wasn't done, he knows perfectly well. So how can you come here to say that if that evaluation is done? It's not done, the law is not developed, the law is not applied, there are repeated breaches, and so on. There are a lot of articles... so come here to say that the targets that were marked by the commission are reached with this dictate, man! So it seems like a laugh to us. They're not reached. First step. And now we will have to continue to deepen and really reach concrete measures, not remain in a merely descriptive document. We sincerely believe that they do this many times for mere electoralism, yes, and we have to say it, because there is a obvious contradiction between what they say they defend and what they do. We cannot dissociate the debate of the dictatorship of equality of the possible Greek Covenant, of its pacts. It's just that we can't because they're just evaluating those who are putting Machist speeches, reactionary speeches, which are directly against women's rights. And you don't make a clear pronouncement. If the extreme right reaches and is representation in the German Parliament, does the People's Party undertake not to compromise under any circumstances with them? They can't make that claim. When they make that statement, we will begin to believe that yes, that they can really defend equality, and especially when they start to comply with legislation and stop applying all those policies that directly go against women's rights, when they stop funding the Red Mother, when they stop segregating by sex in schools and all those issues, because there is absolute inconsistency. That the People's Party publicly commits itself to the fact that 1% of the budget is devoted to the fight against macho violence if so priority is given to it. Why don't they? Because to come here to say at Mr. Rueda's appearance - that they were a couple of measures, but that they are not all the measures that are approved in the State Covenant - that everything is being accomplished, man!, because I don't feel good either. Are there any progress? Of course! There are some advances thanks to the pressure and effort of the feminist movement, because the feminist movement was the one who forced the People's Party to change certain issues. And besides here - and there's the hemerotheca - we see a significant change in the votes of the People's Party, the non-law proposals of the opposition, when we speak about November 25 and March 8. When we bring equality initiatives on other dates, it's very difficult or almost never reached an agreement. It's much easier to reach an agreement when those dates are approaching, or surely from now on, because we're in the pre-election year. Well, be clear, which side will they be on? Are they going to be defending women's rights and equality or are they going to continue on whose side she's dealing with male violence? For us the two questions, of course, are not compatible. And we think it's important — and we insist again on this issue — to listen far beyond the audiences who came to the committee...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u79	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u80	...that were many and that brought up many questions, but it is necessary to incorporate in a central way to work from now on the feminist movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u82	Mrs. Prado, what do you want the word for? Give a voice to Mrs. Prado del Río's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u83	Thank you, President. In Article 76.1, for a serious inaccuracy that has just been said here. I, as chairman of the Equality Commission...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u84	No, it was actually alluded to by a matter that ought to be clarified: whether or not you have prevented anything about the commission, which was what Mrs Quinteiro said. Yes, yes, that's what I understood. [[Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Yes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u85	Two questions. Firstly, as chairman of the Equality Committee, I would like to express here — and I will also be ratified by all the members of the committee — that in no case, at any time, this chairman has stopped or prevented the work of the committee. Each time the committee's work has been stopped was the request of a Member or Member who is part of the committee, and it has been requested in writing. And in addition, this president asked all members and members — or as they want to call them — from the committee unanimously to paralyze those jobs. I mean, never unilaterally did this president paralyze the work.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u86	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u87	It was always to make it easier for that job to be...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u88	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u89	...the most agile possible, mainly in the time of budgets, when the other groups were calling for work to be stopped...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u90	Thank you. It's clear.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u91	...because there was more parliamentary work.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u92	It's clear. Thank you. [[Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo asks for the floor.]] Allusions have no replica. [[Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo speaks words that are not perceived.]] No, it's just that allusions don't have replicas. The Regulation shall contain it. No, no, I'm sorry, you have to read the Rules of Procedure. [[Protests.]] You alluded to her... on a subject she answered, and the matter was clear. [[Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo speaks words that are not perceived.]] And allusions have no replica. No, no, allusions have no replica. [[Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo speaks words that are not perceived.]] It was a direct allusion to her. She responded to the allusion, nothing more, to the comment you make. [[Murmurs.]] Well, I think it was clear. Now, Mrs. Pierres, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u93	Yes, president. Thank you. Since our group we're going to insist, Mrs. Garcia, that our position, of course, has no turning around. Our abstention in the vote on the dictatorship is explained as an act of responsibility, because not to reflect the inconclusive nature of the dictatorship would be to begin to understand — and I insist in this regard — the task of the committee as finalised, when we understand that it is not so. Our look is already set at the really important moment of this whole process, and we now have many of the necessary tools — not all — to implement the policies. And those policies, besides, they can't know about parties, but they have to respond effectively to social demands. This group will not hide, as it has never done, its willingness to reach that pact, but it also wants to be clear about it. This pact is so in such a hurry that it needs to be dressed slowly because it will dress us all and everyone, and in it we have to be, of course, comfortable all and everyone. But that's right, dressed, housed by him. It can't be a time, wear and throw dress, it has to be a strong but also comfortable coerce, which resists the aggressions to which it will be subjected, but which also allows to move with agility and without stumbling, always secure. And it is that this pact — I insist — is not just ours, of this House's groups, it is of the Greeks and the Greeks, of the German feminism. And that means that everyone who believes in equality has to have the opportunity to manifest themselves and to bring their vision to the issues that concern them and detect how best they can. In addition, it is important to open that channel of hearing and collecting information for a victim of violence, for an orphan of a murdered woman, for education professionals, health care professionals, those in the field of justice or security forces. It has to be a process as participatory as possible, because that will be the quality dose that we should demand for this pact, and not do it in a hurry. We have to wear the pact, and we don't want paper clothes. It is so obvious that this pact has to be supported, in addition, in budgets, in stable and desirably growing budgets, because of the analysis that can be made today of the fulfilment of the laws of equality or prevention against the fight against gender violence, we could conclude that many of the legal measures already established are not met by lack of sufficient budget. [[Applause]] They are laws which have been shown mainly as legal expressions of wishes, but which in practice do not imply control or obligation of their compliance because they are not penalized or punished; that is the sad reality of these laws. What's more, the administration itself is the first -- and here too it has been said -- to continue to fail to meet such basic obligations that it is competent for it to facilitate an equality plan for employees and self-employed. 13 years later, and after announcing it again and again in recent years as something imminent, we're still waiting for him. But if that is a clear example, it is also the claim that measures have been made that are already reflected in the laws as well, for example, the elimination of sexist language in the norms and applicable laws of an autonomous nature, which surprisingly also the People's Party has denied in parliamentary commission. It is therefore questions that undermine, of course, the confidence of this group in the real involvement of the Government group. In any case, and as a pact is born of that will of all and of all, from the Socialist Group, of course we will put everything on our side to bring it to a good end and to do it with resources, to do it by listening to all voices and to ensure that the ultimate goal is to dress the life of all the citizenship of Galicia, especially of the women and children of the present and future of Galicia. And, by the end, our vote, consistent with all the talk, will be in support of the particular votes, of course, of all the opposition groups. It is true that in very particular matters we could disagree with some of the ideas or objectives pointed out by some of the groups, but since they share with us - we understand - that need for an unfinished process is going to count on our positive vote. For our part, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. García Míguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u95	President. Here we have talked a lot about pacts with whom the People's Party is committed, and even if we could deal in Galicia with some force that has no representation in this House. I'll tell you the truth about the pacts of the People's Party in Galicia. With regard to gender equality and violence, our pacts in this matter are with you, and so it has been reflected over the past few years. The German Law of Gender Violence, our Greek Law of 2007, was a law of the Socialist Party and the Nationalist Block of Galicia and which, of course, we support from the People's Party; exactly as the aid received by the victims, the improvement of the aid, proposed by the Nationalist Block of Galicia. We support him from the People's Party; it wasn't from the Socialist Party. Therefore, the People's Party has always been in the consensus of the legal framework and, of course, made all regulatory developments so that our law could be carried out in a unanimous and effective manner, as well as in an effective and effective manner, as reflected in the appearances and as reflected in the analysis made of our Greek law. I read more agreements with those we reached with regard to the State Covenant and that the vice president of the Senate pushed. The issue of sexual violence, the improvements in the annual report, the improvements in periodic aid schemes were all agreements with you. It is true that normally those who put generosity in these agreements were mostly the group of governments, it was the People's Party, but, for example, on issues such as equal training for the entire public administration and the work integration programmes for women victims of gender violence you did not support us, when today the victims of violence have these programmes of labour integration and many of them benefit from such an important measure. It looks like the history of pacts in terms of gender-based violence in the Galician People's Party is this, be it with you, the budget we have since you were ruling until now is far superior. In all the measures that have been carried out, there has also been a breakthrough since 2007 until now. For some reason today they don't want to recognize that the Galician People's Party is talking about the facts and proving that they've always been by their side. Why do they do that? Let us remember that in the debate in the state of Autonomy one of the proposals that we have taken, precisely, to that plenary was to condemn in a round manner all kinds of violence, explicitly condemn the negationist positions that aim to divert the harsh reality that victims suffer and also that no attempt is made to partisanly capitalize the advances in the fight against gender violence. You, curiously, voted against this initiative; by which, your position and your votes to this day are very clear. You want to position yourself in a place where the People's Party isn't there and you want to try to get some electoral receipt so that this can benefit you. And electorally they may have some benefit, but for victims of gender-based violence the benefit will not be any. We will continue, of course, trying to bet on you, not to think that this gives electoral profitability to our party, but because we believe that it will really improve the quality of life of all victims, of all minors, so that we can solve among all gender-based violence. It depends on you that that agreement is a reality. And I give them advice: stop thinking about where they're supposed to be electorally positioned. We stand on this subject with our facts and their proposals. [[Murmurs.]] Our facts and your proposals are very clear, ladies and gentlemen. In this matter we want to be in hand to fight against gender-based violence. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u96	Thank you, Mrs. García Míguez. Voting of the commission's dictation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u97	After the debate on this text was closed, we proceeded to vote. In particular, we vote on the particular votes cast at the dictation. We begin by voting on the particular vote of the Joint Parliamentary Group. We vote. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I think he was already fixed his seat. Didn't you fix it yesterday at the table? It's fixed. I think at the table it was the stage that the Joint Left Group proposed. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That was the writing where they proposed it? Well, then it's okay. Well, but the name in this case hasn't given time yet, which matters is yesterday's table deal where the seats were enabled and you've been enabled that seat. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, yes, that scan is enabled. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's in your seat. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They're all on your seat right now. Yeah, yeah, right now they're all in your seat. [[Murmurs.]] Well, let's repeat the vote. No, it wasn't, it wasn't. [[Murmurs.]] And we begin by voting, once everyone is placed on their seats, in particular the particular vote of the Joint Parliamentary Group. We vote. Vote of the G.P. Mixed Ditame issued by the non-permanent study commission for equality and women's rights The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This particular vote is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u98	We now vote in favour of the European Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. We vote. Vote of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Bloc to Ditame issued by the non-permanent study commission for equality and women's rights The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This particular vote is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u99	We are now voting on the particular vote of the Left Joint Group. We vote. Vote of the G.P. Common Left to Ditame issued by the non-permanent study commission for equality and women's rights The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This particular vote is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u100	We voted in favour of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We vote. Vote of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia to Ditame issued by the non-permanent study commission for equality and women's rights The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This particular vote is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u101	And now we are voting on the committee's dictation. We vote. Voting of the Ditame issued by the non-permanent study commission for equality and women's rights The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; abstentions, 32. The voting is positive. Consequently, the Ditome issued by the non-permanent study commission for equality and women's rights is approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u102	Finished voting. Open the doors, please. We continue with the legislative text. Debate taken into account by the G.P. Mixture of sugared beverages
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u103	For the presentation of the bill, Mr. Villares has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u104	Good morning again, gentlemen. Taxes are mainly supported on two pillars, one of which is more known than others. This first known piar is to provide the different public administrations with the income they need to be able to develop their activities and provide the services necessary to cover the rights recognized in this case in the Autonomy Statute or in the Constitution. But, in addition, taxes serve another purpose in contemporary legal systems, and they can be used to promote or penalize certain economic activities as well as certain social habits. And that goes precisely this bill that the Group of the Tide presents to the House today. We present a bill that establishes a tax that is intended primarily to discourage or reduce the consumption of a certain type of food that is sugared beverages. What are we talking about? Look at this glass in my hand. [[Mr. Villares Naveira shows a glass.]] This glass contains the capacity for a refresher can, a refresher can that we usually have in our dispensers or cafes and restaurants; refreshing drinks that are usually sugared drinks. Without going further, this same glass contains in this case the amount of sugar equivalent to what would be the volume of that sugared beverage, without going further, one of the most known glue refreshes or some of the soft or energy drinks. Computed in number of sugar envelopes, such as those you usually use to sweeten coffee with milk, for example, an amount that varies between five and seven envelopes depending on the type of drink, but which, in a medium type of drink, glue refresh, can reach or oscillate between thirty and forty grams depending on the brand. That's what we've been talking about, the power that sugar drinks have to influence our diet, the influence on public health and, therefore, the public measures we should take in relation to this situation. Why do we say this and why do we bring this proposal to the House? Well, look, because the World Health Organization, WHO, in recent decades has warned of a substantial increase in cases of overweight or obesity, and in this way it is expected that, and are data for the Spanish State, eight out of every ten men and 55% of women will have overweight or obesity around the year 2030. One of the main causes of increased overweight or obesity is related to the intake of sugared beverages, i.e. mainly those drinks known as refreshments. And, in particular, he draws attention — and I will mention more carefully — to the particularly high consumption in the younger population. Regarding this situation, the World Health Organization recommends that the consumption of sugar does not exceed 10% of all the calories that we should enter daily, which in an average diet implies 50 grams daily. Well, a refresher can, which could fill this glass, almost equal the amount of sugar we need in one day, measured here also in number of envelopes like what you usually use for coffee. [[Mr. Villares Naveira shows a glass.]] In view of this picture, different scientific reports, as is the case with the Spanish Society for Family and Community Medicine, have pointed out repeatedly the need to reduce sugar consumption and point out that it would be necessary to introduce some tax element that would reduce the consumption of those products that make the percentage of sugar established by the World Health Organization significantly surpass the percentage of sugar, particularly in refreshments and energy drinks. This proposal is therefore a proposal that seeks with a normative reality to have a positive impact on the reduction. Yes, we seek to discourage, we seek to reduce the excessive consumption of sugared beverages in our food environment, particularly among new people. And are we talking about a measure that is new in legislative terms? No, she's neither new in Europe nor new in the Spanish state. It is important to point out that sugar taxes have gained land in a short time, particularly in the last fifteen years, as instruments to the service of fiscal policy and health policies to prevent unhealthy habits. This has been done in several countries of the European Union. There have been some countries, such as Belgium, Latvia or Norway, which have chosen only to record the volume of the drink, regardless of the amount of sugar they contain, while the rest of the countries around us — the case of Estonia, France, Hungary, Ireland, Portugal and the United Kingdom — also have this tax, and take account of the ratio of magnitudes between the quantity of sugar, taking into account the overall volume of the product, the liquid. This is precisely the chosen form, because it is the majority in the countries around us and the most appropriate one, too, according to the criteria of the World Health Organization, which we work on the hypothesis that we came here today. The essay in the European countries of our surroundings has also been completed with the incorporation into the autonomous communities of this tax with a success that I will now comment on, in all favourable cases. This tax is already positively regulated in Catalonia, Valencia and Canary Islands and other autonomous communities have it in processing. And I want to share with you that a study prepared by Pompeu Fabra University on the impact this concrete tax on sugared beverages established in the Autonomous Community of Catalonia indicates that their consumption has been reduced by 15.4%, with an average intake of one hundred and seven calories less per person and week. We are therefore talking about a proposal that is strictly not innovative either in fiscal policies or public health policies and that is successfully tested, successfully tested, both in our state environment and in different countries within the framework of the European Union, which is not the only one that has done so. In fact, the global paradigm of the protective legislation of healthy habits against the excesses that produce sugar drinks currently stands out from Chile, which is the reference at the international level and in which certain aspects of the regulations we propose always remain within the canons already approved by other autonomous communities. Moreover, we must point out that, although the main objective of this tax is to reduce the consumption of those beverages which contain a high sugar content, it is also intended as a secondary objective — and it is a necessary legal effect, an economic effect in this case — to increase the level of public revenue of the Government of Greece, thus helping to alleviate the lack of resources from which we are all in agreement — we are all in agreement — is ill with our public system and, in particular, the health system. The usual consequences of the implementation of this type of fiscal policies, based on public health criteria, have several positive impacts. The most notable in economic terms is saving health resources: reducing the impact of diabetes, reducing the caries, reducing cholesterol and decreasing the infarctions. In addition, on an economic basis, the proposal made assumed or assumed, in an approximate reference, given what is the current impact of drinking consumption on the economic level, an additional collection of some less than 10 million euros, something that we would like, even though we do not reflect it in the regulatory proposal for the difficulties that this would bring, which was also devoted to improving public health policies and training and information in healthy lifestyles. So we bring a standard, a sugar tax that would try to achieve, as we say, two fundamental objectives: firstly, disincentive and penalize the consumption of those beverages that may be harmful to health, especially among the younger people; and secondly, it would be related to the tax policy of the Autonomous Community's own, and their income. It's not En Marea's proposals that come with unaccompanied support from social groups that demand these policies. In fact, still yesterday we had a meeting with the Galician College of Dietists and Nutritionists in Galicia where they shared with us the need for the establishment of this type of measures, also based on unquestionable data, and that Galicia is the second autonomous community with the highest rate of childhood obesity among its young population; therefore, the need to make a cross-sectional effort in various areas, also in the tax field, to discourage minors from abusing this type of sugared beverages. Moreover, according to the move, they also demand more determined active policies in both education and healthy lifestyles in schools and in general population training. But, above all, and what we are interested in and want to focus on, is that this proposal for sugared beverages tax complies with the World Health Organization's recommendation, which is included in the October 11, 2016 report, which calls for the adoption and promotion of fiscal measures to impose sugared beverages with the aim of reducing problems such as obesity and certain types of diabetes. The tax proposed here is therefore intended to tax the consumption of sugared beverages packaged by its effects on the population. Add a couple more references to the World Health Organization's own reports, where they point out how common it is for many families to accompany food with juices or sugared drinks instead of water, a habit that they report is not very healthy if you take into account that these drinks add calories to the feeding of children and children, and the additional custom, also very extended between the population of Galicia and Spain in our surroundings, to consume this type of drink not only during meals but also in hours, with an effect especially harmful to the functioning of our internal system. There are a number of diseases that are associated with excessive consumption of sugared beverages to which WHO refers, which relates as one of the factors that increases health problems, in addition to sedentaryism, is unhealthy food and especially the intake of highly sugared beverages. It tells WHO how in populations with high consumption of sugar sugar sugars increases the risk of suffering chronic diseases, among which chronic diseases, among which they stand out — and I would point out that I am looking for an organization with a consensus I suppose that throughout this chamber - the following chronic diseases: first, overweight, obesity, obesity, understanding that there is a scientific evidence that drinks cause less satiricness than solid foods, among which they stand out — and I am looking for an organization with a consensus I suppose that in this whole chamber - the following chronic diseases: first, overweight, obesity, obesity, understanding that there is scientific evidence that beverages cause less satisfaction than solid foods and that sugar sugars are associated with a higher risk of excess weight and obesitys are associated with a higher risk of excess weight and obesity and obesity risk of teeth polishing due to acidity; second, lower consumption of vitamins and minerals and minerals in diet; second, the caries, because sugar sugared beverages have less drinks than drinks are sugared; higher risk of eating sugar drinks than high sugar drinks; higher risk than in the high sugar content in the sugar content in the sugar content or sugar content in type 2, the type 2, type; the type; the product, the type of the product, the product of the product of the product of the product, the product of the product, the product of type; the product of the product of the product. the product used by the product used by the product used by the product of type; the product produced by the product produced by the product of type; the product produced by type; the product produced by the product produced by the product produced by the product; the product produced by type; the product produced by the product produced by the product produced by the product produced by the product; the product; the product produced by the product produced by type; the product produced by the product produced by the product produced by the product; the product; the product; the product; the product produced by the product produced by the type; the product produced by the product; the product; the product; the product produced by the product; the product produced by the product; the product produced by type; the product or the product or the product of type; the product produced by the product produced by the product produced by type; the product produced by type; the product produced by the product or the product or the product produced by type; the product produced by type; the product by type; the In addition to WHO, I would like to refer to other organizations of relevance and authorities in the sector, such as the Foundation for Family Hypercholesterolemia in Spain, where we speak of how the bad eating habits in Spanish youth have a particularly significant impact between the ages of 13 and 17, where practically half of the population incurs undesirable risks. Also, and the part that focuses on the day on which we are today, on World Cancer Day, the World Health Organization itself and other organizations such as the Spanish Cancer Association warn of how certain types of cancer are associated with overweight by poor eating habits and excessive intake of sugar products. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that there are scientific reasons, social reasons and health reasons more than enough to take into account this tax that we propose and that it has a positive effect on those autonomous communities and those countries around us that have already implemented it. I'm just making two points about your technical configuration. The purpose of the tax is to tax the consumption of sugared and packaged beverages due to their effects on the population's health, and, as for the taxable effect, it refers to sugared beverages containing added caloric sweeteners, such as sugar, honey, fruity, sucrose, maize syrup, maple syrup, nectar, agave syrup and rice syrup. I want to draw attention, finally, also to reassure you of what a tax of these characteristics may entail, which Article 4 expressly states that drinks made with natural fruit or vegetable juices, concentrated or reconstituted, or their combination are not subject to tax. Neither milk nor alternatives to milk which do not contain added caloric sweeteners are subject to this tax. Yoghurts, fermented drinking milk, medical products and also alcoholic beverages are also excluded because they are the object of another type of tax action. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, by strictly focusing on the terms recommended by the World Health Organization, following the positive experience of other autonomous communities in the impact on the reduction of consumption, with the side effect — which is the main achieved — of reducing chronic diseases and acute diseases related to overweight and obesity, we want to move and share this initiative that we hope has a unanimous support, because it is a proposal that seeks to increase quality of life and increase life expectancy, reducing and disincentivating bad habits, and seeking the improvement of the well-being of our country's population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u105	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Parliamentary Group Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u106	Thank you, President. On the part of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, regardless of whether we understand that in the subsequent debate there should be a nuisance of some issues and that our own roadmap on the basis of this issue will be to vote favourably, because we understand that it is a positive proposal, and we have moved similar initiatives during the budgetary debates over the past few years, with little success, as your lordships already know. We understand that here we would have an opportunity to give a more peaceful, more planned debate and to reach some kind of consensus, as it had been, in the face of the forthcoming budgets of the Galician Union, which perhaps no longer has to develop the People's Party and must stop changing itself with this issue. In any case, we will support it, and in addition to our own coherence with our previous proposals, for two fundamental reasons that we believe are on the table and that they support it. On the one hand, there's the need to increase income; it's true that there's a deeper motivation here, but a need that we can't put aside. And, on the other hand, the need for fiscal policy and economic policy as they affect the improvement of society, which helps us to modulate what is the German society of the 21st century that we want to build with certain values. And we understand that, within these values, this approach would contribute to promoting public health as a right and as a priority for public policies. First of all, I want to refer to the need to increase income. For us this is also relevant from the point of view of the situation we have right now, because there is an underfunded Welsh public health, of which we are debating at the first part of this session, but in which it also has a lot to do with many of the consequences that the proponent himself reported here. And we also have a situation of a financing system that is clearly insufficient. We want to stop taking the opportunity to remember that Galicia lost more than four billion in the 2017 settlement, the last year of what we have data, with the current financing model, and that, while the state raised more than twelve billion, because it only returned less than eight billion. And that must also be added to the other consequences on the fiscal and economic model that we have given ourselves, as well as the taxes on the deficit, greater recentralization of spending capacity and a long et cetera, which conditions our limited self-government. So it seems positive to us that we express it, that we express a possibility that it gives us, that it has already been tested in other latitudes, and that it opens a door both to build a better society and to have more capacity to do so. And besides, I can't resist asking the People's Party for some restraint, because the truth is they scandalize themselves when we give this debate about sugared drinks as if no one in the People's Party had ever put this spit on the table. I want to remember a holder of December 2, 2016: Mr. Montoro proposes new taxes concerning tobacco, alcohol and sugar. Then we saw or final outcome, March 31, 2017: "The sugar lobby achieves its goal by curbing the tax on refreshments." I mean, at least put us on a table and debate whether this is a possibility and how we have to articulate it, because it should be something that unraveled consensus, and more in such a debate, where the People's Party cannot simply go to a debate of criticism and ridicule of figures, both because of the need for resources and political will. I therefore insist that we vote in favour. Also, because the fact is that there are social needs and the fiscal tax policy of which we are endowed cannot have only a collecting factor, it cannot be a mere acquisition of resources. And today we have a serious problem in our society with overweight and obesity. Some data has already come out here, and the truth is that there would be a deeper debate also on the material conditions of life in the capitalist system, the pace of life, the schedules, the economic capacities of families. We should also give a deeper debate on all that, because there are studies, among them several of the Spanish Food Health Agency itself, that show something that we can all and can all check in everyday reality: that, too, when we talk about health, when we talk about food, when we talk about overweight, there are class factors, and there are also educational factors. And so it's an area where public authorities could be expected to act with a redistributive will, not only in obtaining more resources to share them better in social needs, but also in modulating priorities and also in guiding their own social behaviors. And the truth is, there's a need that's imperative. According to the Ministry of Health, Galicia presents the highest rate of overweight in the state and also occupies the second position as regards obesity, surpassed only by Asturias. Also, the data we know about the Health Council are not encouraging, but they confirm this trend. We can remember, for example, that they estimate in a recent survey that 16.4 per cent of people aged 16 or older are obese, a fact that Sergas himself indicates that he understands that he is underestimated because he corresponds to the information that those people surveyed come up with, and that, therefore, it is to be expected that if we measure it with objective data obtained in the medical consultations themselves, it would be superior. In this respect — as the rapporteur put it — youth and the child population are particularly worrying sectors. The Galinut study of the USC professor indicates, for example, that childhood obesity has tripled since the 1970s its incidence, at a rate that is also ascending, which is therefore unsustainable. Also, the Galician Joiner Xermola program maintains that one child every three years between the ages of 6 and 15 has BMI compatible with obesity or overweight. And these are very worrying and yellow data. In fact, it's not anecdotic, it's not random or alien to this debate that the Galician Union has in recent weeks announced that it wants to increase in school hours the matter of physical education. We do not refuse to open this debate, but we understand that there must be more measures and that there is an area to which we cannot give up, that we must take it as a first-order problem, because the evidence says it, because it says it in science itself and because it has a dominant effect. When we talk about obesity and overweight, they're not problems closed in themselves, but they have greater problems in people's health, and the OECD itself estimates that in the next thirty years, obesity-related diseases will be charged more than ninety million lives in OECD countries. Of course, it's a worrying situation and it also has an impact on the Greek public service system itself, because if we're spending on healing we're not investing in predicting; if we have problems of economic capacity in our health system by political decisions, we're wasting resources if we care more about healing than prevention. The truth is, here we would also have a significant margin of improvement. Because this whole thing about what we're talking about has an impact on the economy that's not smaller. The same OECD reported that in the Spanish State the cost of overweight is 9.7% of health expenditure. If we have that worrying index of obesity in Galicia, it is expected that this data translation would be greater and also that this would imply a reduction in gross domestic product by almost 3%; and, on the contrary, indicates that it would design active policies to combat obesity overweight as it could stimulate the economy. For these reasons, we have also proposed opening this debate on the recording of sugared beverages. I insist that it would be good to be able to move this into a presentation, it would be good to even be able to count on the opinion and participation of the economic sectors, which can be reticent and which can see risks in this matter. We could have an in-depth debate on how to tackle the types of gravel, what to do with the implementation of this system, and also so that the councils themselves responsible for teaching skills and health skills could design complementary measures that would have made this not an island in a desert but a step forward for more ambitious and complementary measures than at the end of the day could have an accompaniment, because there are other sides of the currency of the debate. We could bring back here the debate about school dining, about the management of the Galician Union, about that there is no compliance with existing rules on industrial balland other kinds of products that are very present in our educational centres through expensive machines, and a long et cetera, and we could give a more global debate. We shall therefore vote in favour. We urge the other parliamentary groups to do so, because we really think we should ask ourselves: what do we lose if we do so? We understand that what we can earn compensates with a great deal of time and work that can lead us to this presentation, and that, of course, new realities, new challenges in a changing society like the one we have today requires that we also open our minds and discuss our fiscal and regulatory framework, also responding to these growing needs. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Joint Left Group, Mrs. Torregrosa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u108	Good morning, President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, we have to say that, although we may have certain discrepancies on some purely technical aspects of the bill presented here today, we agree that the underlying problem in this House must be tackled again. It's not really a draft general rule regulating the manufacture and distribution and consumption of sugared beverages, as might seem to us by the title of the law, but simply a bill of a fiscal nature. We're facing a bill to create a new tax, an indirect tax on the purchase of sugared beverages. Although the proposal states a double purpose, regulatory and also recalibration, it is in fact a tax that disincentives — as the joint group spokesman said — the consumption of beverages sugared by the impact that sugar intake has on obesity and other diseases related to some type of diabetes. From a purely technical point of view, it seems to us that both in the Statute for the Self-Government of Galicia, in Article 44 of the Statute for the Self-Government of Galicia, where the functions of the Self-Government of the Autonomous Community, as referred to in Article 51a, are laid down in Article 44 of the Rules of Procedure, are to be established, in which we are told, the proper procedure for establishing in this Parliament in Organic Law 8/1980 of 22 September, the financing of autonomous communities, a more explicit revision of all legislative matters, seems to us that it does not really enter into any other conflict with taxes which may come from the State or other type of administrations, and therefore we believe that from the purely legal and competitive point of view of view of the proposed law (acquisition of sugared beverages) is not subject to any other tax and, therefore, fully fulfils the conditions laid down in Article 9 of the Act of Law, so that there is no impediment for Galicia to establish its own taxation on the purchase of beverages. Formally, therefore, this is a bill of a taxation nature, although we are actually facing a public health measure. There are multiple studies that point to a positive correlation between the volume of intake of sugar products and the tendency to obesity in economically more developed societies. With an epidemic of obesity at the alza — almost tripled cases since 1975, according to the World Health Organization (WHO) — and in an unfavorable future scenario, eight out of ten men and 55% of women will have overweight or obesity in 2030, according to the study. WHO recommends that the consumption of sugar should not exceed 10% of all the calories that we should enter a day, that is, twenty-five grams — as already stated — about five spoons a day — and we have to think that one single can of glue is already thirty-five grams of sugar — seven spoons. And that's why member states were asked to consider WHO's recommendations to apply taxes and, in order for them to be more effective, to be located around 20% on high-energy foods — i.e., we talk in general, not only about sugared drinks — in order to improve diets and prevent non-contagious diseases. The recommendation was also collected by the Spanish Society of Family and Community Medicine in a 2016 working paper, where they proposed to record all beverages containing more than 80 grams per litre with a minimum tax of 36 cents per litre, and between 50 and 80, with a tax of 25 cents per litre. The recommendation — as the text of the initiative points out — has already been followed by several countries of the European Union and we also believe that the Autonomous Community of Catalonia is autonomously autonomous. In fact, the bill we are debating here today in this Chamber is a literal translation of the Catalan standard regulating this tax on its territory, the Catalan tax on sugared beverages packaged, Law 5/2017, of 28 March, of tax, administrative, financial and public sector measures and of the creation and regulation of taxes on large commercial establishments, on stays in tourist establishments, on radiotoxic elements, on sugared and packaged beverages and on carbon dioxide emissions. We believe that because of this literal translation, the initiative we are discussing contains some formal errors or inconsistencies that should be corrected, in case the procedure is admitted. For example, in Article 4.3, where "refreshs or refreshments" is referred to in the original text: "refreshs or sodas"; or formal inconsistencies between Article 6, where the contributor's alternate is defined, and Article 10, where a more common terminology is used in the public store's issue, when referring to the contributor's substitute. So, we think there are little details -- as we already mentioned -- and we also assume that this is a mistake, but in the legal plane, we have to say that it surprises us that Article 14 includes, as a supplementary right, Catalonia's tax legislation and the complementary rules that develop it. Without attempting to enter a debate on the sources of law, where the proponent could undoubtedly illustrate us with his vast knowledge, we believe that it is neither legal nor political correct to extend the scope of the application of norms approved in another autonomous community to Galician territory. And if for the proper application of this rule there was a need for regulatory development, we understand that the correct one, technically and politically, would be to enable the German Government to carry out that development. And if it was still necessary to refer to legislation, it should necessarily be state or Community legislation, of general application throughout the state territory, and not the particular legislation of another autonomous community. Regarding the results of the evaluation of the studies produced by the Centre de Recherca en Economia i Salho da Universitat Pompeu Fabra and the Institut d'Economie da Universitat de Barcelona, 22% estimate the reduction in consumption of this type of beverages in Catalonia in the first year, 2018, of tax application. In the absence of official statistics, some sectoral sources place Galicia in an intermediate position, where the consumption of refreshments, in all autonomous communities, refers to around 90 million kilograms of annual refreshments, which translates into an annual consumption per capita of 33.5 kilograms per capita per year, slightly above the average annual consumption per capita in Catalonia, at 32.6 kilograms. And although the main purpose of this tribute is not its collection function, in the 2018 exercise — the first year that was applied to Catalonia — this community collected about EUR 40 million and two million through this tax, and it is estimated that savings for Catalan health could reach the sixty-three million per year. In summarizing, and already reaching the end, the increase in price as a result of the implementation of this new tax in Galicia will not rootly correct the problem of childhood obesity nor will it eradicate the consumption of sugared beverages by youth, but empirical evidence from other experiences suggests that it would have a positive impact on the reduction of consumption. We also think it's not the only point. I mean, in the words of Francisco Tinahones, of the Spanish Society for the Study of Obesity, we have to stimulate the reduction of consumption and try tax strategies, but we also need to seek the commitment of the industry to reduce the sugar content in products. According to the July 2018 Isocat Report, we also need to bear in mind that one of the most notable and everyday aspects affecting poor families is the difficulty in accessing proteins and a healthy, balanced and varied diet, and malnutrition is directly linked to childhood obesity or poor nutrition resulting from the abuse of pre-cooked foods. This has a double impact: an imminent, due to lack of access to a balanced and healthy diet; and another, in the long term, of physical and cognitive development in children. And so we think it is a responsibility of the administrations to use their resources to support education in healthy nutrition habits, honest advertising of negative health outcomes — especially the younger ones — and to set an example from the educational centres themselves of the media that have the public administrations themselves — in this case, the Junta de Galicia — and to use the educational centres themselves by regulating the sale of certain products, and in school dining rooms with food based on unprocessed food and with consumption of products of proximity, using the benefits of this own tax. For this reason, the Left Joint Group will support the consideration of this bill, without prejudice to the formulation of partial amendments in the event that the proposal was accepted. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Torregrosa. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u110	Thank you, President. In this tax-based public health debate it is worth mentioning that there are some differences in the approaches that public policies make or even researchers who work with them on the need for some matters that deserve nuances and on which we have raised some doubts. We are going to vote in favour of your consideration to be able to debate them. Of course, this is not the first time that we have expressed this sense of our approach, but we also believe that the need to debate is made known in some matters. And there were some nuances of interest, because it's a measure that sooner and later you'll probably have to face reality through various governments. Firstly, a question of competition, and competition, not because the Autonomy does not have it directly but market competition. We are proposing a measure — without needing a dogmatic position in favour or against — that would differentiate the price of a refresher can in Ribadeo and Vegadeo. And this is a difference that has its nuance, not necessarily bad, but for us it poses a need to have a certain estimate. Sometimes differentiation causes difficulties and therefore we have to evaluate what levels of differentiation we want to mark. But in any case, that trade inequality, because it has to be evaluated, it may be an advantage and, therefore, it is more right to do so from an autonomous tax figure, but it may not be. Will we ultimately reduce consumption — which is the final objective — if we do so with that inequality? Well, it's interesting to meet you. Second, the counties. The justification of the accounts is based on what we interpret in this proposal in the Catalan proposal, which actually took place in 2017, basically because it is a literal replica of the initiative. And the accounts are the same as those proposed in that measure, but not even at that moment are justified on their own. In fact, the World Health Organization says that these types of tax figures have resulted from a 20% increase in price, which is not given in this case in some type of drinks based on size; they would be given in large bottles of refreshments -- let's say -- but not in small packagings of other types of drinks; and therefore it's also soft. And then there are three issues that seem relevant to us and on which we want to raise some debate, moving forward that could be the debate and at least the question, because we understand that you have some chance to go ahead with this proposal, but you have some others — perhaps more — that it is rejected by most of the House. We are going to vote in favour, but we know that it is difficult for other groups to vote in favour. That's three questions. First of all, the type of products that are affected; secondly, the final consumer has to pay; and thirdly, the data that assess this public policy. The type of products, a pure question of public health. They're out of alcohol, that's something that proposes the Catalan measure, but let's think -- and we understand Mr. Villares when he made the proposal -- that alcoholic measures already have an impossive figure of their own by the consumption of alcohol, which must also be analysed of course. But we understand that if you have a double problem with consumption. Let us say that the existence of alcohol and high levels of sugar should have a double taxing figure, because, let's say, the danger is not paid once again; if the danger is double, we must pay double, or triple if there were three questions. I mean, we don't know if it's the best measure. For example, we would be paying extra -- and we insist: it's not necessarily a bad measure, plant us doubts -- by a sugary drinking yogurt but not extra by a worm. And we have some doubts why that kind of drink is yes and the others are not. In another sense, dairy companies manifest some discrepancies — and from our point of view we believe that with a certain meaning —, for example, with regard to promoting healthy lifestyle habits and with healthy nutrition habits especially for children. This example of sugary drinking yogurt would be affected. And they think it should not be in the same sense, it should not be placed in the same place as some other kind of refreshing drinks we know. And they might have a good deal of reason. We probably also have to encourage companies, especially those that go with dairy products, with great ground on our land, to take care of their drinks or their products to be healthier, and it's okay, and so they're at an intermediate point; there's the debate that we'll have at some point but it'll probably come from European instances on the food traffic lights, which probably also goes more or less in this direction, and we understand that the Joint Group is presenting it in this line of healthy habits in terms of nutrition. But there are some doubts there in that space that causes us and that we would like to be able to debate — we insist — and that is why we will vote in favour, in order to be able to debate this. Secondly, the imposition on the final consumer. There is one thing that shocks us from our group, which is that the literal copy of this measure of Catalonia is literally extracted, because we understand that there has been some debate between government, the sugar industry, consumer associations, and at some point they earn consumers and at some point the sugar industries. In this case we believe that the tax on the end consumer was a victory for the industry, and I literally read: "The taxpayer is obliged to pass the final consumer tax on the drink." We don't even let a company — they don't tend to be sisters of charity — want to pay in advance to competitively reduce the price of their product; we assume the tax; they are not allowed so much. We're just limiting companies to taking on the increase in costs and we're forcing them to pay the final consumer. It's supposed, according to some variation in public policies, that that's what finally makes the consumer think twice whether to actually consume or not a product that's bad for his health. But some examples that have been put in place allow the final consumer not to be affected. [[Mexico, France or some American cities]] But it can be an interesting debate. And in the end, there's what it has to do with the evaluation of the results, that some of them exist, and it's interesting because this is basically what it has to do with public health. Is consumption redoubled by this measure? The data that Pompeu Fabra researchers offer says yes. I could see something the study, with a nuance, allows for a nuance. They are high-ranking and recognized researchers who evaluate measures on which they previously advised and then conduct an evaluation study; that is, their academic level is indisputable, and therefore we trust that study. First data on the study: it is made only in supermarkets, not in hotel consumption. Let's plan that doubt affects only one type of population, and so what population we're making measure, because we don't have data on the consumption at the hostel and therefore we can't make a full assessment. In fact, some of the data say that this effect is seen more in non-touristic areas than in tourist areas, where you don't see it, probably because when you're in tourist or visiting times, on vacations, because you care a little more about some things, but I mean it only affects one part. It greatly reduces consumption in large drinks — let's say — in large bottles, but much less in cans. What are the most consumed, especially the smaller population, children and children or adolescents, as compared to sugared beverages: drinks of two liters or cans? Well probably cans, and that's what less affects; yet, it affects, and it's fine, but it affects less. And then researchers actually avoid it, in the usual academic formats, analyzing data but not presenting it in the final results, and there's a relationship that's being tested, and that's that it's a lot more affecting families that have a high level of income, or what's the same, translated, are families with a high level of income that reduce consumption. So we are affecting less those collectives who have more problems in public health, which are, as we know, the most disadvantaged groups, urban or non-urban borders of families with less resources, and therefore the measure is not being so effective in a certain type of population, precisely that it has more obesity rates. So there's results, but they're something more relative than that, and yet they're good results, better than nothing, and of course that's the way. So we have raised some doubts about this proposal. We believe it is important to adjust it or to tone it, but in that sense we vote in favour. And we close by saying that we believe that yes, that we must go this way, and that we should go, and we think it is appropriate to open this debate. We regret in advance, yes, knowing that it is complicated that it will be opened, and in this sense we deeply regret it, but we believe that in this sense we should go and therefore probably have to do a joint work to evaluate, yes, from the imposition measure, but we also accompany it with measures of dissemination, knowledge and pedagogy on the field of nutrition, which probably, with the increase of resources that we would obtain through these measures, we could also finance it, and that would be the final issue. But we already know that in the end it is a public health issue, and public health issues are worth a lot more money than it seems, and when it comes to working in health care and putting money on, then we're going down to the reality of this parliament, and I think we'll see a negative vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u111	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Fernández Macías.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u112	Thank you, President. Once again there is debate in this parliament about the creation of this new tax, a subject which is already recurrent by all groups of the opposition and which in this case is presented in the form of a bill by the Joint Group. The tax on sugared beverages has already been discussed not only in the committee and in the budget debate, but also in the Tax Measures Act this year and all previous years. But today, with this proposal, it has reached a new dimension, which I will tell you later at the end of my intervention. Today you present this measure as a bill, but the content remains exactly the same as on previous occasions, that is, a proposal that is mostly empty of content and is quite incoherent. I'll also tell you about it after the end of my speech. And as you therefore do not present any novelty about it, and the novelties they present are incongruent, because our position and our arguments will not vary, and in coherence they will continue to be the same as up to now. But to explain better, let's go somewhere. First, it is true that the World Health Organization alerts to the increase in people with overweight and obesity in recent years and that many of these cases are related to excessive consumption of sugar — although it does not, in all its variants, speak exclusively of sugared beverages — but it is also true that the World Health Organization speaks that, in the case of implementing such a rate, it should be an appropriate, integrated and well-designed tax, which is not the case of this proposed law which the Joint Group is proposing today. Secondly, and on the other hand — and this goes on the line that Mr Torrido commented on differences and market competitions — you want to impose a tax that falls, in this case, on a clearly defined product which therefore has a high elasticity in the price and also in demand in relation to its cost. This high elasticity is precisely due to the fact that there are almost perfect substitutes by definition in this case, and that by this measure they would not be recorded, such as natural fruit juices or sugar-free juices added. Therefore, the greater elasticity the greater the probability that consumption will decrease and decrease to zero, but also the greater the probability that consumption of substitutes will also increase and therefore the purpose of tax because it would not — yes, Mr Villares — be clear what it is intended to create. [[Murmurs.]] That is to say, sugar intake may not be diminished in consumers, but consumption is shifted to other products not recorded but with similar characteristics, or to other markets, as Mr. Torrado said. That would require a much wider study on this, before implementing new engravings, and perhaps bet more on training and nutritional information. Thirdly, there is something that surprises me and we could also see it in the budget debate of the previous months. It's just that I'm surprised that you, all opposition groups, have the ability to agree against what the People's Party says, regardless of whether the measures presented by some or other groups are different and shoot each other. And Mrs. Presas doesn't like to be reminded, but the difference in figures is too big. In the budget debate — and I speak of this year, because the figures of previous years were still more disparate — the Joint Group intended to raise 15 million euros with this tax, the Left Joint Group intended to raise 500,000 euros and the Galician Nationalist Block, which had to make the accounts with the Joint Group, also proposed a collection of 15 million euros. But in no case does any of the groups set up a specific tax model for this tax; they simply talk about its creation, copying — yes — exactly the tax model presented in Catalonia. [[Murmurs.]] By the way, Mr. Villares, you were talking about the tax also being implemented in Valencia and it's not true; a December 2019 news: "We-We-We-We-We-We-We-We-We-We-We-We-We-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we-we- What if it exists in Valencia is a proposal, an approved text that is far from being this same tax that you submit, not that it is intended to "incentive healthy life in schools and to conduct a study on the opportunity to implement the rate that must subsequently be assessed by the Treasury Board." That is, it has nothing to do with this tax, as you intended to point out. So we don't know what data each of the groups handle to be able to do this calculation and for the numbers they want to collect. What's clear is that, with those differences of numbers, the models they pose have to be totally different and you shoot each other. But that doesn't matter to you, you don't present any kind of model, and what you want is to create a tax and pay people -- yes -- the common people, as you usually call them. And also, by the way, during the Budget Act, but during any debate that we can hear in general, we must listen to and endure from the People's Group that the People's Party of Galicia practises a model of tax and tax return policy, which lowers taxes on the wealthiest — according to you — and therefore is also socially unjust. That is, after we have to endure everything we have to endure and listen to them, one day yes and the other too, this matraque, you present here today a tax that is regression by definition, because it would have to pay for all citizenship equally, or, worst of all, it would fall above all into average or low incomes, which are precisely the main consumers of this type of product. So what are we left with? What does the Galician People's Party do to eliminate or lower taxes is regressive and what you want to implement new taxes is progressive? I think you should review those two concepts a little bit, because they're not very clear. But to set an example, progressiveity is what the Galician Board does when it lowers IRPF's tax on lower incomes and gives it to those who have the most resources, or progressiveity is to raise the tax on wealth in times of crisis and now keep it below the crisis. Or progressiveness is also eliminating taxes in rural areas and encouraging deductions of birth, purchase of housing, new creation companies, etc. That is a progressive taxation and something very different from what you want with this tribute, which falls entirely to the final consumer and therefore indiscriminately affects all citizenship in general. [[Applause]] And to finish, I'm going to focus more on the law text they presented, which I am quite in agreement also with Mrs. Torregrosa and Mr. Torrado, who said it was a literal copy of the tax approved in Catalonia, but it's a literal copy and paste of the tax approved in Catalonia in 2017; a tax which, of course, was annulled by the Catalan High Court of Justice, but precisely because it was not well designed and with a poor processing, since it did not comply with the legally demanding procedures. That is, pending final judgment, the Catalan Fairy takes advantage of to continue collecting and shielding the tax with a royal decree last year 2019. But, well, let's go back to the text you presented. You record this copy and take it that it is plagued with inconsistencies and chaotic and quite surprising points — by calling it in some way. They use a terminology that doesn't exist in tax and tax law. They speak of a taxable person, pass the consumer tax, substitute for the taxpayer, a type of bail, a type of tax law...; that is, a completely new argot — by calling it somehow — and that doesn't even exist in tax matters. I mean, you don't understand anything at all about what you intend to put forward in this bill, and this is the best evidence of your lack of rigour in tax and tax matters. Now, as soon as the end is over, I would pray you a little more serious in your next bill, too, because we understand that if you want to look like Catalonia and that you prefer Catalonia before Galicia, but copying and picking up the Catalan law like that, translating it and not even taking a look at it is a lack of rigor, seriousness and above all a lack of respect for Galicia. [[Applause]] Look, you just put the title: Proposal for the law of sugared drinks. Then they copied and beat the Catalan law and then transferred it to the House register. It is impossible for you to read what you have presented; and if you have read it, then you could answer me — as Mrs. Torregrosa asked — why in Article 4(3)(a) she literally says: "They are subject to tax the following types of sugared drinks: refreshments or refreshments"; and I don't understand what you mean. Of course, then we go to the Catalan law and say, "They're subject to the tax of different types of sugared drinks: refreshments or sodas," and then we understand it more clearly. I would recommend that you at least use the translator of the Galician Union, who would recognize the word "soda", since it also exists in Greek. [[Applause]] However, as a final point, we also see that in article 11, and in the last paragraph of his initiative that he presents in this disproposition of law, after copying and pasting the law, they weren't even worthy to change the word "Cataline" to "Galice". And so you say textually in Article 11: "The management, collection and inspection of the tax corresponds to the Tax Agency of Galicia, according to the Act 7/2007 of July 17, of the Tax Agency of Catalonia." Point number 1. [[Murmurs.]] And in the last paragraph they say, "in the application of the tax, the general tax legislation applicable in Catalonia and the complementary rules that develop it are complementary." [[Applause]] That is to say, with this statement you refer the matter of management, collection and inspection of the law to the Catalan Finance Board as a competent economic and administrative body and establish the application of tax legislation in Catalonia to its rules in the application of tax in Galicia. [[Applause]] I just don't know if they want to pay the Greeks and the Catalan agency to go back, I just don't understand. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] And I'm done with a conclusion. In the face of the people's coherence, rigor and seriousness in all areas, but especially in tax and progressive taxation, you have an alternative of incoherence, disproposition, lack of respect and tax and regressive tax measures. For all this, you will understand that we cannot take into consideration your disproposition of law. And I would recommend that you stop wanting to look so much like Catalonia and stop copying Catalonia so much and advise you to copy a little more to the People's Group, which works seriously for and for the Greeks. [[Murmurs.]] However, for something the People's Party is the party that most looks like Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández Macías. Mr Villares, Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u114	Thank you, Mr. President. From En Marea we would like to thank the approaches made by all political groups, which demonstrate the clear interest in this bill. And I would also like to thank you for the only fundamental criticisms of this bill that are unique and exclusively related to material errors and not, therefore, to ideological or substantive errors on this norm. And she said Noa Presas, from BNG: what do we lose if we try a process that will result in the benefit of public health? The answer is nothing. So, look at the current objections to the text and its suitability or not when following texts from other autonomous communities, there are two nuances that I wanted to make. First of all, it's not a literal copy, because we've made a drafting... which saves the Constitutional Court judgment 43/2019, in articles 51 to 68, which were annulled as a result of the infringement of certain matters and contents that did not correspond to autonomous communities, so that that part of the articulate will not be seen by you in this bill. [[Murmurs.]] On the other hand, with regard to the Supreme Court of Justice in Catalonia, in its decision of July 2019, we also took good note not to incur the errors by which the regulation was annulled, which was, among other things, to include, on a regulatory basis, what had to be chosen as a legal rank, something that we have already done in our bill. So these two judgments are taken into account, which are important to establish the normative and constitutional framework in which this tax is developed. I am very grateful that there was no constitutional, legal, or regulatory objection to the way this bill is set up and that the only thing I've done is the anecdotal of a material error. On market competition, I, who know the area quite well, find it strange that the boys and the girls of Ribadeo are running to Veiga looking for the can of Coca-Cola; and, if they go, there is no problem, because the calories they lose on the journey can already recover them perfectly with that excess sugar. So there's no problem in that sense. And I thank, of course, also the technical approaches, additions to the subject of alcoholic beverages. And the theme has to do with the chosen formula, and the chosen formula with respect to other communities has to do with zeal for consensus. That is, sometimes you can choose a differentiated standard, a standard that contains maximum standards, but many times -- and so we've been doing it since En Marea in recent times -- we're looking for formulas that can raise, if there's political will, consensus, and, therefore, we're renouncing certain formulations which, of course, we're open to them. And I myself was the one who mentioned the question of alcoholic beverages that also have high amounts of sugar. And if we did that, they would tell us from the People's Group that, of course, as alcohols were already recorded, because it didn't make any sense that kind of tax and therefore we would have to vote against it. With regard to the dairy lobby, because all the political groups of this chamber received the visit of the dairy lobby, which met with us to try to curb this bill, at least in what had to do with the dairy derivatives, we were very clear, and it is that — and apart from this we clearly leave it in Article 4 — both yogurts and certain dairy products were left out of the tax. Now -- and so the dairy lobby itself recognized it, we suppose that, as you were told, perhaps with different intensity, because with us, as we were the proponent force, it carried more ink, it was that a milk drink was not good for the mere fact of being milk if it had a sugar content that, for example, was rounding the thirty grams in thirty-three centimeters. So what we had to do was regulate sugar content below the amounts recommended by WHO. And that was also said by the dairy lobby, and they agreed with us. So what we suggested to them was that they go to a sector pact where dairy-derived drinks had some amounts that were acceptable in sugar. And that was something about what they said that, well, they had it in their head but that they had not yet materialized it because, among them, they also had their discrepancies, discrepancies that had to do with the economic articulation as well, of course. He said, yes, some more matters to the People's Party's representative on competition and the market, and on the incentive and disincentive to the product and the derivative to other products. First of all, with respect to competition in the market, there's also the health center, and because it's autonomous, as Julius Torrado also meant, that doesn't mean that tax cannot operate effectively. We, of course, have certainly discarded that massive emigration to buy sugar products and drinks outside the autonomous community. With regard to the diversion, as Mrs People's Party also said, towards other non-taxable beverages, the World Health Organization agrees with that. I mean, there's no problem with consumption drifting towards, for example, natural juices, because the problem is the additives, in this case sugar. On collection forecast, he also makes a criticism that is not fair to the representative of the People's Party, and that, we see, in the budgets of each year, indeed, the tax is named and what can be collected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u115	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u116	"I'm done." This bill was meant precisely for the purpose of discussing all elements of the tax in order to be able to justify where those amounts are drawn. And that's why it's not indifferent -- and it was one of the reasons for discussion here -- if the tax type is going to be one or another, but there's already a concrete articulation, something that, as you said here too, could be calmly discussed in the presentation, so if we consider it acceptable a 5, a 10 or a 15 because those were the terms...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u117	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u118	...in which they settled. This — and I'm done —...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u119	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u120	...it does not aim — it has been said clearly — it is not a question of tax justice, it is a matter of policy and public health, and that is the main purpose of tax: to discourage consumption. It is precisely also — and you speak of the popular classes as the ones most affected by this measure — that is, we agree, but in the opposite sense.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u121	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u122	The deterrence of this consumption leads to a decrease in the associated diseases that also have a clear marker...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u123	Thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u124	...of class, because not everyone has the same...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u125	Thank you. [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Thank you. Voting of taking into consideration the proposal for a law
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u126	At the end of the debate, we proceeded to the vote. Close the doors, please. We vote. Voting of the consideration of the Proposal for a Law, of the G.P. Mixed, sugared drinks. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. Consequently, the consideration of this bill is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u127	We suspended the session until 4:30, four and a half.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u128	Good afternoon. We restart the session with the fourth point of the agenda, motions. G.P. motion. Joint Left Group on actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in the field of public health
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u129	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion you have the word to Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u130	Thank you, President. We put forward this motion today in connection with the interpellation we had last week, which gives continuity to the debate we are having in recent weeks on the situation of health services in parishes and rural municipalities. An element that, as we have said in all interventions, is crossed by the concept of equity, which is part of the foundation of the National Health System in this case and most public systems based on the redistribution in some way, the compensation of territorial elements, equal access to rights and, of course, systems that are also a preventive base and based on the promotion of health itself. In this case we wanted to bring in this substance of last week's questioning a number of elements that are key to us in addressing the complex situation of public health in the municipalities and parishes of rural areas in our country. Almost every week we move issues related to the absence of health personnel to the Health Commission at various points of our geography, many of them in rural areas. Being inserted at this moment in a situation beyond that where the problem is not only from Galicia -- of course, there are problems in other autonomous communities -- it is quite obvious that in our community we haven't been able to address from the beginning and there was no proper planning. The news is like this, which is an example - that there could be many more - in which we are talking about a health crisis in rural because Sergas does not find a substitute doctor for Pastory in this case. There are multiple occasions of the different municipalities that in primary care are even seeing their centers closed. It seems that this day the news was coming out - we are going to discuss it in the Health Commission - of that situation suffered by the neighbors and neighbors of Valexa, in Cañiza, that for two months they have not opened their health center - in this case a consultant - because this professional was not replaced, and these neighbors and neighbors were only being cared for at the continued point of attention. A situation that I believe to us that overcomes the continuances that may produce an unplanned absence and that the extension for two months of that violent circumstance basic rights in health care, such as access to primary care. But all this morning and in the presence of the Health Counsellor we've been discussing also what has to do with the situation of the comarcas hospitals, and far from all triumphalism, of that triumphalism of what seems to be permeated also the counsellor's intervention. Unfortunately, just two months ago too, the Valdeorras Boat Hospital, for example, was cancelling surgical interventions because of the lack of surgeons; other times in Verien and other centers are due to the failure of anesthetists. It is a situation that is being normalized and which is already being structural in the municipalities and parishes of rural areas, both with regard to primary care and with regard to comarcas hospitals. For us, it is an element of gravity, because, as we explain, it creates comparative aggravatings between the population depending on where they live; aggravatings that are also increased by elements that we have discussed on other occasions, such as the absence or existence of urgent and programmed health transport. And we've talked about the need to increase the means of emergency health transport of municipalities that are far away from the health centres and therefore need to increase that element. So today we wanted to bring this question here, first of all, with a first point, which I think we've been discussing on a number of occasions, which is that there is a coverage of permits, discounts, vacations and retirements, so that this quality of care can be maintained at all times. That's a key element. And I have to reiterate here that there are professional categories that have no problems with the number of professionals available to work; it's not all so unfortunately, but there are them. And yet the problem of non-covering permits I think is a constant in all services, by order of reducing the expenditure that has been incurred since the beginning of the economic crisis. This for us has always been a political decision rather than an economic one, because, of course, there is also the possibility of prevailing the element of health coverage over other necessary elements within the Galician Union. A recruitment plan in the Galego Health Service that ends with the current precariousness, which serves to stabilize, which implements the necessary public job offers for all categories. We've discussed it up to satiety, and there is currently no element that makes you think this is going to change. The OPEs that come out are counting and what we cannot -- as we have in the last few months -- use the replenishment rate right now as an element to hide, when the People's Party had previously voted against reducing or eliminating that replenishment rate. Something to remember every time we intervene, because I think the fair will be defending her at all times and not only when others rule. We are in favour of it being eliminated, but of course we were in favour before. We need to provide the comarcas hospitals with human and material resources to maintain current services. And in this element I want to stop to remember that when we first discussed the absence of this pediatrician, that closure of the parish priest in Verín, we proposed removing our entire proposal to introduce a point which the People's Party proposes precisely in the debate of the House of Ourenses, which was that the services should be maintained. In this case, the Parliament of Galicia's PP decided contrary to its colleagues' voting against the proposal of the Ourense People's Party. And today we bring it back here again -- of course, we are willing to accept if a point vote is requested -- so that you may this time be able to support your fellows who ask that no services be withdrawn. And here we must remember the reduction in the service that has to do with the case of Verín de Palliatives, the problems in Internal Medicine, the problems in Anesthesia, etc. Ensure by law a minimum portfolio of services for all health districts, regardless of their geographic situation. Here we put "districts" because right now, even though we believe that many of the things must be eliminated from the very modification of the Health Act, right now is the demarcation that the People's Party has decided, and we understand that there must be minimal services that are kept in all those districts. I think we've been discussing it on many occasions and from all the health spokespersons on this camera we're absolutely reasonable in that sense, because there are some services that by their specificity should concentrate on more specialized centers. But there's got to be a minimum wallet so there won't be anything like what just happened to the neighborhood of Verín, both for primary care and for the county hospitals. It's an element, I think, of justice, that should be guaranteed legally. We no longer set what standard it has to be; probably the most appropriate thing to include it in the Health Act itself. The reality is that in the face of population dispersal and increasing problems in relation to the demographic change that this country is experiencing, the abandonment of rural areas and the increase in the number of inhabitants around cities, more in the coastal line, I think it is essential that this government guarantee this equity, which is denying when services are reduced in comarcial hospitals or when unfortunately they decide to close, as happened to the Verín Hospital. That is guaranteed in the Demographic impulse Act - which is currently being processed - that access to equitable public services for the rural population. I've already said in the intervention in the past full that we have just entered a text into the Chamber that we consider to be absolutely insufficient and that to our surprise, the truth is, there is no single article in relation to the need to guarantee health services and territorial vertebration that produce services such as primary care throughout the country. We simply have an article, which is 77, in relation to the accessibility of public services, which speaks in general terms that all citizens have to have the same access to education, health, social services, but, however, this is not done in practice. And that's absolutely within our legal system, which is equity, but you ignore the possibility that there are specific articles about how those health services are going to be maintained or which are those minimum services that will be maintained so that there are no problems in the municipalities and the most populous parishes. And finally, let that amendment of the Health Act that was carried out in this legislation be repealed. We continue to consider that it is tremendously detrimental to health areas, now districts, to these comarcal hospitals and, of course, to primary care. We believe that it must be eliminated and sat down again to understand that we must recover both what we have to do with primary care agencies, the ability to decide within primary care, and, of course, the administrations of these comarcal hospitals. And here I warn you that this is not an increase of leadership paintings within the Health Council, but a reorganization of services that allow autonomy to health areas, to old health areas, and, of course, to primary care. We believe that it is a compendium of measures - of course, there can certainly be many more - that we must start a debate work on the state of public health in the municipalities and rural parishes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u132	Good afternoon, gentlemen, Mr. President. From En Marea we will support the motion put forward by the Joint Left Group because it seems to us that it goes in line with the most fundamental territorial justice from a health point of view and from the point of view of the solidarity of society as a whole. The need for equity in access to the health care system and, therefore, for homologous conditions of access to the provision, not only in an area of the country, but in all, fairly, is essential. On the other day, on the occasion of the whole debate in the Galician Land Management Act, we denounced how the planning of the territory itself was not well structured in so far as the hierarchical criteria that should lead to the deployment of all the effectiveness of the Land Management Guidelines and subsequently the different plans were not established. That was not a lie in the idea that we are now planning on the health area of necessary coverage with a infrastructure allocation of resources in order to be able to adequately care for all the population throughout the territory. That is to say, this is how the territory is planned in full, and then sectorally, as here is proposed also in one of the paragraphs of the motion, specifically with regard to the amendment of the Galician Health Act which was approved in 2018. Starting with the question of character of human resources, of staff, it's obvious that one cannot guarantee the exercise of civil servants' rights at the expense of patients' rights, which is what has been done here in recent years. I mean, there's a legal guarantee of permits, discounts, vacations and retirement of staff, but the coverage of these rights does not have a correlation, which is the coverage of that situation, so that citizenship does not resent the exercise of rights by health personnel. So when it doesn't happen, even sometimes it seems like you want to confront the exercise of official and health care personnel with the exercise of citizens' rights. That is a false dilemma, a false debate, because what we are really facing is the failure by the Health Administration to extend coverage fairly throughout the year. The idea of an immediate recruitment plan, which gives rise to staff stabilization, is something that we have been particularly suffering from this legislation. The progressive precariousness of working conditions gives rise to migratory movements, and health professionals or professionals leave the country because the Galician Union does not establish a stable recruitment framework, which supports this situation. Something that should happen, particularly because there are needs that are structural and are not of a conjunctural nature. Then, in relation to the actual resources of health care, reference is made to the staffing of the comarcial hospitals of human and material resources. That's what we're talking about this morning. I believe that the way to take up the topic by the Galician Union is being catastrophic. And an example we see when this very week we see that in order to cover the Pediatric Service of Verín, it happens as a result of the deforestation in the case of the Pediatric Service of Cee, on the Coast of Death. So, we see that in the face of the structural shortage of resources, the structural shortage of professionals, what we are doing is patching up, dressing one saint, undressing another. This can't happen, because the care needs aren't falling, they're getting bigger and bigger. There is no appropriate consideration either of another phenomenon, which is that of the progressive chronification of the use of the health system as a result also of the ageing of the population, which gives rise to the fact that nominally with the same population we have the highest demand for care precisely because of the increase, among other things, of the average age. The portfolio of services that are missing in many comarcial hospitals was announced this morning. Even in well-known places like Verín there were problems in Dermatology, Trauma, Rheuma, etc. And we saw in the boat how justice had to correct the public administration's dismanshipments, which took the hand of illegality to establish a service that was absolutely precarious. To save four euros they gave way to a system that was unfair and unfair, also with the professionals themselves, which was finally annulled by justice. The loss of a third of specialists and nursing staff in Valdeorras also results in the fact that the structural needs of this region are not sufficiently met. And that's how we could keep going all over the country. Finally, we want to point out - that we have also proposed it and therefore we want to support it explicitly - the derogation from the amendment of the Health Act carried out in this legislation precisely with the object of resizing the health areas, recovering the health areas in all its initial configuration; that is, with management capacity, with autonomy, with budget, with the ability to plan on the territory, which, in addition, has the positive effect of bringing health closer to citizenship. And don't do it the other way around, whether it's the citizenship you have to make long trips to either attend or either to primary care or to specialized care, as is happening more and more frequently in the comarcal care of the health system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u133	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u134	The elements of this motion brought here today by the Joint Group of the Left to debate have been the subject of treatment on multiple occasions, as it cannot be otherwise, because it is the continuous and constant concerns that revolve around the state of public health. The situation of the staff has been the subject of concern and occupation on multiple initiatives that we have brought here also the BNG to this parliament: insufficient public job offers, replacement rates, cut rights, suspended and never returned agreements, precariousness. And these eleven years of the People's Party's government have brought back work conditions and loss of rights and precariousness of staff. A policy of back turned to professionals, of deaf ears, of pre-power, of order and command, of taxation. And as much as they're trying to deny it and have the courage of the President of the Board in the previous plenary session to say without redeveloping that there are two thousand more professional peaks in public health in Galicia than in 2009, I suppose that reposition rate that now insistently calls for it to be eliminated should not have existed. Because if it existed and only one percent could be resettled, 10 percent of the troops requested, and during 2010-2015 every 10 people rejected one, and from there the next year only the lost ones rest from that moment, we live in a parallel world. That's what we're asking for, but it didn't exist. You should have a little bit of stink when you make certain statements. Because, of course, accounts are accounts, and you count stories. A health system, therefore, infred personnel, with an important part of its precarious situation. And what's the point? That's not a new situation, it's not a survival situation, it's not a last-minute situation, but they were warned, they were wise and they had their own reports. I have to repeat again: Sergas Human Resources Management Plan 2010, where they warned which would be the retirement pattern in Sergas, and that it was necessary to implement measures because there would be a professional deficit. There are the warnings of the Pediatric Associations of what the situation was going to be. Why are we at this moment? Because if he wanted to be, because if he wanted to get to this situation, there's not enough professionals to be able to say: there's no, there's no, there's no, of course. We did everything we could to keep them out, you made them, the People's Party. And the staff has made a lot of efforts and sacrifices to alleviate the situation. Here, the member of the Joint Group said that the rights of citizenship cannot be guaranteed at the expense of professional rights. It would be even worse if with those professional sacrifices the rights of citizenship were guaranteed, but neither one thing nor the other. Unfortunately, because it's impossible to do less, and it's impossible with much less personal to meet in the same conditions as population. We are therefore going to support this initiative on the part of the staff, because far from meeting and noting what the situation is, agreements that are not in compliance with the CAP, which come to agreements that do not meet, emergency services of hospitals in a permanent situation of saturation. And, of course, by doing the same thing and not responding to demands, it's impossible to resolve requests. As in the part referred to the comarcas hospitals, of course. Let's discuss it in the morning. The EOXI and the amendment of the Health Act were in the direction of underestimating, converting comarcial hospitals into appendices. That's the roadmap and that's what they're getting. They're only paralyzing to the extent that the population is being conscious, and they're getting up and they're not going to allow it. They won't allow it and it became clear, and it will be more than obvious. [[Applause]] Just as in the matter of the derogation from the Health Act, which goes in that direction, not only for the comarcas hospitals, but for all the burden that this carries implicitly. And all of this requires a correction and a model change in another direction, which is not solved simply by the fact that they now take note. Because the People's Party is not taking note, it's just trying to demobilize an increasingly mobilized society and professionals, because we're in pure and harsh electoral campaign. Since they don't intend to rectify, we're going to have to force them to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u136	Thank you, President. From our group we will support the motion that is being presented, because it goes on to the line of what opposition groups have been demanding for a long time, at least in this complete legislation. It's a debate where there are generic issues or structural issues of the system that are being debated and, therefore, I think they're usually talked about here. However, from our point of view, we're going to try to incorporate some things into the debate. As José Luis Cuerda would say: we're going to try to make ourselves intellectuals, which we have nothing to lose. [[Applause]] The health system problem is in two keys: One's on the question of staff. We have a problem of staff deficit, notoriety, evidenced, shaped by all the collectives who know the system, and even -- I'm gonna make a joke -- which we don't know, too, we say. In addition to all this, reality disassembles each of the arguments it seeks to defend that we have a well-trained system of personnel. Even so, we have a problem of precariousness in much of the staff that exists. Despite the figures that are intended to be moved in the debates of this parliament by Mr Núñez Feijóo or the Council, the reality is tenuous and the data are evidenced by budgets even that we have a staff deficit and that there are many busy staff squares eventually. Dino, for being more succinct, the judges. No more than repeating it, it is no longer serious: fraudulent and torturing recruitment, as the judicial judgments say. And besides, we have a planning problem. It's a problem from a certain point of view, because planning is obviously intended by the Government, which has that health model that's implementing. But we think it's not the model. This model concentrates services on two aspects: firstly, it concentrates within the system itself, by emptying primary care to provide more resources for hospital care and, secondly, it has a geographical concentration, by losing capacity in the most rural areas, in particular as far as the hospital centres in which it is comarcas are concerned, in favour of hospitals in large cities. This problem is that we have some macro rates of self-compensation, but we have lost global attention capacity. That's why we have a Galicia actually two-speed. This problem is double because in the two senses of this concentration it brings problems. First of all, we have a great loss of services in the comarcal hospitals, despite today's attempt to get those seven press releases that the Council has already circulated. And from there on, we have a problem with attention, because citizens who have as reference hospital a comarcal hospital today have less ease of access to many services than they had before. And the professionals who care for them aren't always the same, they don't have the same service, and they have to spend their efforts often moving to hospitals in big cities. And that looks for a debate here in which the People's Party usually repeats that it licks comarcal hospitals; it looks like it's a savings box. It's impossible to shield hospitals. What we need to shield is staff, because we can have infrastructure without personnel or personnel without infrastructure. Both are problems. Although we have staff with infrastructure deficits, we will take care of it regularly, but if we have infrastructure with staff deficits, we will take care of it badly. And that's a problem that we think needs to be solved, and we probably have that problem. The comarcas have an infrastructure supply with some weaknesses, but above all, what they have is a staff problem. As far as primary care is concerned, today we bring a motion against the interpellation of the whole past on primary care. So we'll focus on our next intervention. But if we think that primary care needs to have that volume of relevance that doesn't have until now in the system. We are -- we all know him -- with an aging, dispersed population that needs close attention. What do we have to deal with? We have a system with less capacity, professionals who have less capacity to apply for diagnostic tests, professionals who have less training developed in the system. And we have the impossibility of properly treating citizens of this country with a minimum quality of care in primary care. What's the problem with that? We saturate hospitals, the problem is that we saturate the CAP, the problem is that the number of hospital revenues is fired when you can, because sometimes there are closed plants. And we have an inefficient system. And being inefficient in system design makes us inefficient in management. So we have a model problem. What we are seeing is that, in the end, we have a problem in the sense that the Government is unable to take on a single criticism, because — it is for reflection, and I am finished — they quote me on one occasion in all this legislation where the Government has assumed that it could be wrong in some proposal, whether large or small, and that the opposition has not in any case made any positive contribution. Probably none. And it's very difficult in a system like the health care provider to assume he's always right, because usually when someone thinks he's right he's always wrong enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u137	Thank you, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u138	Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u139	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. It is necessary to remember again at the parliamentary headquarters, because it seems that many of your lordships still have doubts, that for the Government of the People's Party of Galicia the public services on which the welfare state of our Community is based are a clear priority, because it is public and notorious, and so it is reflected in budgets - and more specifically in health matters - that year by year they grow and improve their investments, and specifically the latter assume more than forty-one percent of the budget of the Union of Galicia. The Galician Health Service has thirty-eight thousand workers, 1,544 professionals more than ten years ago. We listened to the Health Counsellor both in his interpellation of the last full as well as in the full of this morning, who came to appear. I'm not going to repeat here all the improvements achieved in recent years, but I just mean that there are more and better infrastructures, better and more advanced technology, public offers of annual employment, an increase in the number of doctors in training, the retirement age has expanded and the family doctor's squares have increased. It is true - we must also say - that we are the envy of many health services, both national and even foreign. You just have to ask them, if you want to know how public health works in Galicia, the sick who are users of public health, the sick who are going to the doctor, those who are in hospitals, only an inquiry, not about a case at all. They have to listen and they have to read more. You can always get better. It's something we can't and must not give up. So Sergas was able to analyze and detect that changes were needed, and together with experts reached agreements with scientific societies, medical schools and trade unions. Thus, the primary primary care plan 2019-2021 was signed. And 98.8 percent of Sergas' short-term shares are already completed or under way. You, gentlemen of the opposition, have been lying for years and trying to always confuse with the same mantra. The constant criticism of public health is but an excuse to try to discredit a government that works and advances in the well-being of people living in our autonomous community. That message of dismantling public health and comarcal hospitals contrasts with reality, which is stubborn and demonstrates day and year by year that does not correspond to reality. Mr. Torado, come in, contrast to the information and think about what he says. We have more and better services, and public health professionals have never had as many diagnostic evidence and as much ability to diagnose as they do now. The Health Act, which you voted against, represents a blockage for comarcas hospitals by creating health districts, which allows you to earn equity and provides complex services in these centers, avoids patient displacements and draws attention to your places of residence. If we talk about waiting lists - and you also criticize the data given by the Government of Greece; I suppose they will rely on those given by the Ministry of Health, since they are all now in the same basket, they are government partners - because in the latest data published by the Ministry of Health, Galicia is the fourth autonomous community with better data. You don't recognize this; no, it doesn't matter. Mrs. Solla, the Government of the People's Party is committed to stability and improvements. Let me suggest, now that you are partners of the State Government, that you add your energy and your efforts to the claim of the Greek Government that they pay us what they owe us. Be serious, leave the catastrophe behind and come to reality. Mrs. Prado, you were talking about the replacement rate. You will remember that in 2017 we voted in favour of a motion that presented your party here at this very headquarters. Yes, in 2017, Mr. Rajoy was ruling in Madrid; remember. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Now you, who also have one of your party there that supported the government of Sanchez, are agile and improve that replacement rate. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Miguez. Author group of the motion, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u141	Thank you, President. Firstly, I would like to thank you for your support for the different opposition groups. The truth is, we've been in this legislation for many years, dealing with issues separately from the different health centers and comarcal hospitals, the deficiencies they're having. And, of course, we wanted to bring here today a debate that was complete. Unfortunately, since the People's Party, they ask us for seriousness and mix the deficiencies in rural services with the return of the VAT. I think I deserved a little more preparation for this debate and a little more attention from the People's Group. Because it seems to me that the situation in rural areas, whatever happens in the coming autonomics, is worth planning. I think it's relevant. After ten years of amortizing squares, because it's good that right now they're talking about expanding retirement ages, when there were even forced retirements within the public health system, even now we find ourselves having difficulty giving coverage to some specialties. Management was a disaster, and they would do well to come here and assume the things they didn't do right. Of course, we're sure you think they've done a lot of good things. But they'd better go if they started assuming they did things pretty bad, and we started looking for all of them solutions for those elements. Because if you don't, what's going to happen is that you'll be returning to an election campaign where you'll be filling up with promising health centers, improvements in comarcal hospitals, improvements in ambulances, in health transport and in different districts. And the reality is that there's nothing after that. The reality is that in a legislation -- I don't even speak of the previous ones -- we've lost our personal livelihood. And as much as they're trying to move here the other way around, it's not true. This morning, I think it was the spokesperson for the People's Party that spoke about the report of the Board of Auditors. It's good to remember that report, because that report tells us that only sixty-two percent of staff are owned, and that they have been reduced internationally by five hundred eighty-two the number of personnel owning it. I mean, work insecurity is increasing, which is currently 40 percent in hospitals and 20 percent in primary schools. There are fewer personnel, more timeliness, no replacement, no reduced services. And we have a problem that is serious throughout the country, but that in addition to producing an element in rural areas, which is the lack of equity in access to an element that is basic: public health. And then we should sit down and talk about what will be done. Because, unfortunately, in an entire legislation -- at the beginning of this legislation, even in the past -- every time, until you were no longer in government, which we proposed measures, better, worse, the different opposition groups, to attack the situation we had with Pediatrics, they voted against, without arguing that you should have some better things. The same happens in primary care. And the same thing happens -- and I'm done now -- with the replenishment rate. What's wrong is, at the end of the legislation and when they no longer rule in the central government, they throw balloons out and come here saying they did very well, but the fault is that there are no health professionals. The reality is that every time we proposed an initiative they voted against. You don't care much about rural health.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. G.P. motion. of Galician Socialists on the policy of the Greek Government in relation to the rights and guarantees of the dignity of terminally ill people
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u143	This motion was presented with an amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u144	To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u145	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Despite what the president just said, we don't talk about terminally ill people; then we'll realize. I want to begin my intervention by greeting the people representatives of the Right to Die Dignifiedly Association in Galicia. They know well that we're not talking about terminally ill people, but something else. And I want to point out here and claim that since February last year they have been asking for a meeting with the Health Counsellor, and no one has answered them yet. Since there is no one in the Government, it would be good if someone could answer them. Today the councilman is not, he is in Madrid, but it would be good if someone from the Government could contact you, or someone from the People's Group, at least to be able to have that meeting. I want to begin by reading the glorious phrases of the other health adviser's day, because I think it's essential to highlight them, more than anything because it involves the mix of moral and political, own moral and political, in which we believe that a good politician should never fall, and much less a counselor. The Health Counsellor said it was a mistake, a big mistake to talk about euthanasia, that it wasn't a social debate, and that euthanasia is not acceptable to be the solution. Those were his words, which would be fine in a representative of a religious confession, but hardly in a councilman of a democratic government, like the German Government. This motion today has two well-defined and clear parts: the first one is relative precisely to that title given to us by the House's Juridical Services to our motion and our interpellation, and refers to terminally ill people who need palliative care. There's a law of 2015 in Galicia, not about worthy death, that's something else...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u146	Excuse me a moment, Mrs. Vilán. It's not allowed in the rostrum, I think they've already been warned; therefore, I ask them to cooperate with the presidency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u147	Thank you, President. ...for it is not worthy of death what this law of 2015. What we ask for in our motion -- seven points -- is that we want to be told something about this palliative care law, since the councilman the other day was the only one who spoke to us, nothing more, trying to confuse palliative care with the right to euthanasia, which are two different things. We want to be informed in writing by means of a report on the fulfilment and dissemination in Galicia of this law, which refers us to parliamentary groups, that the adviser comes here and realizes it in the plenary of the report; also about what actions the Health Council has been developing on the dissemination of the law between citizenship, among professionals, and also about how it is promoting something, if it is being done by the Health Council, among the population in general the previous instruction document. We also want the law to have a regulation. As is customary in this government, none of the laws that are passed — not, of course, not in this legislation; few of these almost eleven years of government — have no development regulation. If we work the parliamentary groups, so you see, because the bills come here and we end up bringing them forward, but there are no regulations for the development of these laws. For almost five years, the law of 2015 has been passed, and there is no regulation that develops it. In addition, we want it to be done with an open and participatory approach throughout the entire citizenship to develop it. This 2015 law speaks of terminally ill people, and not even of all terminally ill people. I don't know if you, the Members and the Members who were in the previous legislation, certainly remember - the people who are up-to-date in the media too - the girl who was called Andrea Lago. Andrea Lago was a girl who lived until she was 12 years old and suffered from a terminal illness. Andrea Lago died after the entry into force of the law of 2015. Her parents asked for palliative care, precisely sheltered in this law of the year 2015. They couldn't get me to give them the reason, and they finally had to go to court and ask him to let his daughter die, something very sad and very painful for Andrea Lago's father and mother. He got it after, in fact, if he reached an agreement in the trial, under the terms of the 2015 Law, but on entry not voluntarily, as the law says, they were not granted. It didn't serve much, apparently, the Law of the Year 2015. Well, if it served us to stop the Health Counselor and appoint the new Counselor, because it was immediately the cessation of the previous Health Counselor. We know nothing, as I said before, about the application of this law. What we do know is that in some places there is no record, so those terminally ill people can decide about options and about care and treatment in situations where they can no longer express them personally. That record, for example, does not exist in the Sergas de Lugo delegation, and we know it not officially, but informally. We want to know officially. And that the other day the counselor told us that this law speaks about patients' rights. He even said that the medical-patient relationship — which I, and I suppose Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira, will never be able to understand, because we are not people in the healthcare field, as the counselor told me — does not work with writing. It would be nice if someone from the Government had told the father and mother of the girl Andrea Lago at the time, who had to make many writings, and even writings that came to trial, where they were given reason. The second part of this motion does not speak of terminally ill people, it speaks of the right to euthanasia, it speaks of people who consciously meditate, free and voluntary, who suffer from a disease that causes them suffering that they have no kind of relief, decide that they want to die. That's the right to euthanasia, which are different things, and which in the motion clearly differ. We want euthanasia to be legal. We know that the Galician Parliament has no competence to regulate the right to euthanasia, because it affects a fundamental right as life is and that it has to be regulated in the Congress of Deputies and the Senate. In fact, there is a bill - I did it the other day - which is from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which is being dealt with, which is going to be the first bill to be discussed in the Congress of Deputies. [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo shows a document.]] For what we want is that, when the right to euthanasia in Spain is legal, this government is loyal, acts with loyalty, and actively cooperates for the application of that state law in our Autonomous Community. We want mechanisms to be activated to provide for the application of this rule in the public health system, which does not happen as happened with Andrea Lago in 2015. We want it to be provided with the necessary professional and material resources, as well as the Greek health system, in order to make the right to euthanasia compatible and the right of workers in the health system to conscientious objection. And we also want to recognize that the debate of euthanasia is a legitimate, legitimate debate, not a mistake, it's a legitimate debate. The regulation of euthanasia is a legitimate debate, and its decriminalization too. With guarantees, of course, legal guarantees that provide for a bill, fulfilling the will of people and protecting the fundamental right to dignity, which is what we are talking about. Euthanasia is the right to choose a good death and therefore the right to be a worthy person until the end of my life. That's what we're talking about. It's going to be a new civil right, they're not palliative care, they don't mean terminally ill people, we don't confuse, we disarm the two issues, and it's necessary to be in the public health system, always safeguarding the fundamental right also to the objection of the conscience of doctors and doctors. We want you not to boycott the law when it is passed, we want you to be loyal — I say again — loyal to a debate that is on the street, and how much the other day the councillor said that they were elucubrations of opposition groups. We're not looking for any headlines either. All we're looking for is that the headlines of euthanasia are never again featured as by people like Ramon Sampedro. We don't want any new Ramon Sampedro to be the protagonist of any new headline in any Galician newspaper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u149	Good afternoon. Good afternoon to the people who accompany us again from the gallery of the Right to Dignified Death Association. When the Law on the Rights and Guarantees of the Dignity of Terminally Sick Persons was passed here in 2015, from which I, on behalf of the BNG, was rapporteur, we said that we were blessed because it was an advance on the previous situation, in which there was no legislation on this issue, but it was not the law that would have approved and encouraged the BNG to have the ability to do so. We believe it was a step forward, but we had to keep moving forward in legislative measures that would stop penalizing people who had no other acceptable way of living the suffering that would cease to live. We have done — and so we have declared all the groups present in this parliament at that time — an exercise of self-contention, since there were issues that would be clear from the outset that they would not be addressed, and the subject of euthanasia would not be addressed because there was no agreement on this situation. We made the regulation of a worthy death, which had been demanded by sick people, but also by many professionals who had come to do a proper medical cure, but who did not have a legal regulation that had protected them or protected them. We asked from the BNG that this law could not contemplate conscientious objection, and so we reached agreement among all groups that conscientious objection was not contemplated, which seems to us to be a very important issue. And I also fined them at the BNG, the amendments that we tabled during the processing process, in which it was necessary to evaluate compliance with this law. We had tabled an amendment that it was necessary for a study on the level of compliance, on the level of implementation of this legislation, which was not accepted by the majority group, by the People's Party, to take place within one year. We also presented amendments to the effect that in the public health system the amounts and allocations of palliative care units, equipment, had to be implemented to ensure this health care. Nor has this matter been taken into account. I was talking here about the proposal not by law of the case of Andrea, a girl, but the grave of that situation is that the law itself contemplated that she could act and whether she should have acted, as it was not done. In this case it was not a problem that there was no legislative framework, it was a problem of will of those who considered themselves to be entitled to do the reading that seemed to them of that legislative framework, which, of course, the Bioethics Commission and others were denying that position. Because, even if there are regulatory frameworks, then it is often at the forefront of the personal issues of whom you have to implement those rights. We were asking that this law should be accompanied by multidisciplinary strategies that would favour the implementation of this issue, which is part of what the Socialist Group is demanding today not by law, and on what we agree, because we have agreed since its moment, in which we find ourselves fundamental. It is not worth a policy framework if it is then not implemented, if then the rights that are collected from it are not guaranteed. It's obvious that it is. But in a second part of this proposal presented by the Socialist Party, specifically in points 4, 5 and 6, the fact is that if we are asked for an exercise of blind faith in how a legislative text presented by the Socialist Party in the Congress of Deputies will remain, which has not yet begun its parliamentary process; a legislative text which has already been unapproved in the previous legislation, or without rejecting it, that is, without its final processing, like other initiatives that have been presented in the same direction. Of course, in the whole past, when a non-law proposal from the Joint Group was dealt with regarding the amendment of the Criminal Code, we warned that we expected that sooner than soon Congress had legislated this issue in relation to the Euthanasia Law. Now from the BNG we're going to be careful and we're going to wait to see how that legislative text remains to see if it really stays in the terms we believe in the BNG that it should go; we're going to wait to see how that law remains to position ourselves on it. That's why we tabled an amendment where we asked to replace those points 4, 5 and 6, which call on this parliament to take action on the implementation of a law that has not yet begun its procedure. We insist: we feel more of a blind faith, of how it will remain, and in the BNG we are more of seeing the results, and what we ask is to replace those points 4, 5 and 6, which speak of a future, by supporting the initiatives so much to amend Article 143, paragraph 4, which calls for the decriminalization and amendment of the Criminal Code to be exempt from responsibility those who indirectly or cooperate help to die in a safe, peaceful and pain-free manner to those who expressly, free and unequivocally request it, as to provide support for the legislation governing the application of that Euthanasia Law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u150	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u151	And our unequivocal support for that change, for people's right to decide how and when to die, for people to be given their lives and their death.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u153	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to greet, first of all, the representatives of the DMD association, which, as you know, fulfills a very worthy role, not only in moving social debates on the right to a dignified end of life, but also in accompanying many families in the final tranche of life and in the suffering of their loved ones, leading them to the best of the options in the search for that dignified end of life, which, as we were debating last week, with the wall of insensitivity of the People's Party, and in spite of that, we saw that it was a fundamental right that had to be extended once and for all. Last week, ladies and gentlemen of the popular majority, we lost a vote, but you lost a debate. That was very helpful. They're far behind what civil society and also what their own voters and their own voters demand. So they're going to update. Well, with regard to this motion, we doubt that we will support it in all its terms, not in vain last week we ourselves have brought here a proposal for a law on the decriminalization of euthanasia. Therefore, covering the criminal field, which was the previous budget — and we have already explained it at the moment — and then carrying out all a positive regulation of an administrative-sanitary nature regulating the effective exercise in the health aspect, in the technical aspect, of what we understand should be this fundamental right to a dignified end of life. So go ahead with our support, too. With regard to the development of the 2015 law, which is referred to in the first paragraph, of the Law on the Rights and Guarantees of the Dignity of Terminally Sick Persons, the text adopted in 2015—we have discussed it a number of times already during this legislation—is a text that is as good as ineffective, insofar as it is lacking in legal development through the corresponding regulations, and above all — and I want to refer to this — about its lack of financial resources so that what is declared there is a real and effective right. For that reason, I would also like to refer now to the proposal for an improvement in the economic dimension of this law, which has been made since the European Parliamentary Group on the occasion of the 2020 budgets. Specifically, as you know, in the cross amendment without devolved effects, under the heading "Best of the conditions of the right to a dignified end of life", this group, the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, and again also committed to the Right to Diere Dignamente association, has made a series of proposals for amendments to be incorporated into the 2020 budgets for more than three million euros; first, by means of an information and awareness-raising programme on the previous instruction document, so that the general population and population of this type of debate, or in view of the hypothesis of facing a certain vital, surgical or health process, or of the characteristics that they are, knows with which rights it counts and which rights to attend. To that end, we anticipated EUR 525,000 for that specific campaign. What did the People's Party do? To vote against. We called for the increase of home hospitalization resources for the care of people in palliative care, which was also one of the boundaries that established this law. To do this, we anticipate an additional budget allocation of EUR 1 million. What did the People's Party do? To vote against. We also call for the guarantee of privacy at the terminal stage — which is also collected in the law — through the new empowerment of individual hospital spaces reserved for patients and their companions, something that collects the law but often does not take effect due to lack of spaces, which would require changes, even in the plans of the current directors to whom the health advisor himself referred this morning. To do this, we anticipate an additional budget of one million euros. What did the People's Party do? To vote against. And finally, we also demand multidisciplinary training on the right to a decent end of life from the ethical, medical and psychosocial perspective, because the awareness of professionals is necessary, the awareness of educational staff is necessary, a cross-sectional training on this situation is necessary. To do this, we anticipate an ambitious plan, also committed to the development of the law itself and to compliance with the DMD association, a proposal for an increase of EUR 501,000. What did the People's Party do? To vote against. So despite what was said last week and will be said here again about the respect and beauty that is the law of the year 2015, the reality is that there is no real and effective commitment to the effective guarantee of those rights. Because for those rights to be reality it's necessary for them to have an economic dimension, that is, there is a need for means to be able to enforce it. And that doesn't exist, simply because the People's Party, once again, voted against, against extending rights to a dignified end of life that no one would harm and, on the contrary, would relieve a lot of pain and great suffering to many people and their families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u154	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Today we are visited by students of 2nd Bachelor's degree at Miguel Ángel González Estévez Institute in Vilagarcia. We welcome Parliament and its teachers and supporters. And now yes, you have the floor, by the Joint Left Group, Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u155	Thank you, President. You welcome the visits that are here today from the association, and also, of course, to the student. We will, of course, support this motion. And besides, I think there are elements that make it necessary for it to be approved I believe for democratic hygiene, for the need to give debate about expanding the fundamental rights that citizens have throughout the country. In the full past it was denied here — and I regret that it was so, it is a reality — that 80% of the Spaniards and Spaniards, in this case — and, of course, also with regard to the Greeks and the Greeks, are in favour of regulating euthanasia. Surely we may have differences in how that regulation should be. The content of the law should be given in a debate within the framework of a motion, of course it should. But the reality is, when we talk about 80% of the population, we're also talking about a percentage of right-wing people, a percentage of people even voting for the People's Party. And so, I think, instead of giving him back, whether he should accept the need to begin to regulate this right, regardless of the fact that in his regulation I'm sure we're going to have a difference in how that regulation should be given. As far as the first part of the initiative is concerned, of course, we agree. And we have already expressed in the previous debate in the past full that we have been interested in the issue, not just because we are working within that presentation. And I have to point out that, when the Law on the Rights of Terminally Sick Persons was dealt with, we managed to eliminate the objection of conscience. And in the case of palliative sedations, elements that were basic within public health, which were achieved a number of rights such as individual rooms, rights that unfortunately today are not being complied with and which have motivated us to be interested in the enforcement of the law on various occasions both in writing and orally, especially because professionals have denounced on some occasions differences in palliative care between cities and rural areas. We're talking about home hospitalization, but I think we should talk on many more occasions about primary care, home care in primary care, and the relationship they have with the care of people in terminal situations or who need palliative care at home too. But, by going to the second part of the motion, which refers to the need to regulate euthanasia, I — if I allow myself to propose — have also been reviewing the text of the appearance the other day in the interview with the health counsellor, because in my own intervention during the plenary I felt incredible some things that we were listening to here, and I think that in addition to the lack of sensitivity towards the situation that many people have, come to transfer that what must be done is to seek cure for the diseases — in fact, I have annotated here, transferred that a maximum defender of euthanasia, a doctor who quoted, died by a hepatocarcinoma derived from hepatitis C — and that what was to be sought was healing. I think it's an absolute lack of sensitivity and understanding that the situation we're talking about is a situation of irreversibility of the health situation that this person has in the physical or psychic realm. And so we're not talking about what to do in research -- which, of course, we have to do -- but we're talking about the specific situation that a person is going to have, not have an improvement in their state of health, which in any case can get worse or stay as it is, and which, therefore, causes him suffering. And at this point, it must be remembered that, indeed, life is a higher right that has to protect administration — of course it is — but life is not an obligation and cannot be forced to live a person in harsh conditions. So I think that's what we want to regulate. They said in that speech things as rude as they were supposed to euthanize people who had a good living situation because they couldn't be looked after. He said older people could ask for euthanasia because they looked at their very tired daughter -- something he said in the intervention. I think this is such a barbarity and a lack of sensitivity so great that it should be far from a parliamentary debate and, of course, the opinion that a health adviser might have on the right to euthanasia. Of course, everyone can have their ethical and moral sensitivity, but I think they have to stay away from the regulation of a fundamental right. We therefore need an organic law to be approved. And we, although we will surely have differences in that process itself, have it within the government agreement, but we also, through the United We Can-In-Common, present some previous bills. We think it's worth accepting that there has to be a debate within a presentation in which what is being arranged is how we regulate the right and not the right itself, that society already has more than assumed it. And, therefore, within the legislative chambers — already mentioned — should take on and not go behind society. I mean, the right I think is accepted and what we have to see is how this work is to ensure that this right is guaranteed, whether it is guaranteed within public attention and of course done with quality, and if it is done by eliminating that degree of suffering that people and families have in a situation that is irreversible and that I think I can avoid if appropriate measures are taken from public authorities.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u156	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Barreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u157	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies. We greet the people who accompany us today in the gallery, in detail the representatives of the Right to a Dignified Death Association, who, by the way, Mrs Vilán, were received by the Popular Parliamentary Group and heard their demands. Look, we're going to support the first three points of your proposal, because they are points that have to do with the Welsh Law of rights and guarantees of the dignity of terminally ill people, a magnificent law that we have approved — as we have already said — unanimously, with the consensus of all groups, and which is serving to respond to the needs of terminally ill people and their families in the final process of their lives. Because no one should suffer or suffer at the time of death, so we will support those points. I take advantage of it to make a precision, from respect and recognition to the family of Andrea Lago, Mrs. Vilán, to ask for some rigor, because, except for the error of this Member who speaks to them, I believe that the girl died on 9 October 2015. The Greek Law 5/2015 was published in the Official Gazette of the State on 23 September 2015 and entered into force on 25 October 2015; therefore, it was not able to apply the resources that this law made available because this law was not in force. And that's the greatness of this law, gentlemen. That suffering probably shouldn't have been suffered by this family if this law, as it is now, had been in force then. [[Applause]] Having said this, we fully agree with all improvements in the implementation and enforcement of this law and, therefore, we will support a report on the enforcement and dissemination of the law; also, that it appears, I believe that it is better in Parliament than in plenary to take account of this report; and, of course, we also agree that it should be developed on a regular basis. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, we think we don't just have to think about the people who are at the end of their lives. We must also be very present to all those people who suffer from a severe, chronic, incurable, invalidating illness, which prolongs over time, which conditions their lives and their families. And we must bear them in mind to recognize the value that every day faces their difficulties, sometimes enormous difficulties. And let's keep them present to provide them with solutions, real solutions. Even today, the Official Journal of Galicia publishes the call for aid to improve family rest; a few days ago, the help to improve and start the homes of the major. Surely we can do a lot more, we certainly have the resources that the State has to provide in the matter of dependence we could do a lot more, let us do so, ladies! but we have no value in the effort of these people with enormous limitations and their families, who with much effort every day do not lose hope and struggle to move forward. And above all, let's talk about them every day to support them, to help them, but not to give them the only solution to death. And that's why, Your Honor, who asks for loyalty, we have to tell you that, just as we're going to support the first three points, we're not going to support the remaining four points of your motion. Because what they ask for is loyalty, you said, for the implementation of the state legislation that is approved. Look, we don't know what's going to be approved, Your Honor, Mrs Vilan, you don't even know. You'll probably approve what your partners are imposing on you. But, look, you will certainly submit to whatever the Socialist Party says in Madrid or even to what We can say in Madrid, whatever they say, approve what they approve, but we would like them to tell us what the Socialist Party's position is. What position do we have to take? The Socialist Party of 2017, which rejected the Euthanasia Act of Podemos, or the Socialist Party of 2020, which brings a law that is a copy practically equal to the Euthanasia Act of Podemos? Because I'm going to tell you what your spokesman said in the debate about that Podemos Euthanasia Law: "it fell into the mistakes made by countries like Switzerland, Holland or Belgium, and it presented deficiencies and failures of guarantees." Ladies and gentlemen, a replica of that law is what you now bring to the Congress of Deputies. Look, have you read the bill, your bill, gentlemen? I'm asking the Socialist Group's bench. Do you know, Mr. Villares, that in order to grant a will, a public fiatary is needed but in order to ask for death, according to this law, is sufficient a request signed by the patient himself or by a third person, in case he says that the sick person is not in a position to sign, before a health professional, not even before the responsible doctor? Do you know that in the case of incapacities in fact that have a serious and incurable disease that has given a previous instruction document — and the previous instruction document can be given before three witnesses — in which case another person may file the request for help to die without further requirement? Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, that in the bill of 2018, that of the Socialist Party, the request for help could not be the result of external pressure and that exigencies have been withdrawn in this law of 2020, Mrs Vilán? Do you know that this law requires prior control to verify that the requirements and procedures of euthanasia are given but that it can be excluded from that control when there is a case of death or imminent disability? But, hey, if death is imminent, why are we going to apply euthanasia to a person? And how do we verify, after the practice of euthanasia, that death was indeed imminent and that it could be excluded from that prior control of the requirements? No, no, of course, Mrs. Noela, read the law, because the subject is that they haven't read it, they haven't read it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Of course! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, this cancels any warranty. Do you know that the law provides for a follow-up to the practice of euthanasia to see whether it has been done in accordance with the requirements and procedures laid down in the law? Well, look, your bill of the year 2018, like that of Podemos...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u158	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u159	...it happened that if two-thirds of the evaluation commission considered that those requirements were not met, it was to be reported to the Prosecutor's Office. They withdrew from this bill, ladies and gentlemen. In the bill of the year 2020, if the requirements are not met after euthanasia has been produced, it is not necessary to go to the Public Prosecutor's Office, it must be communicated by the head of the health care centre that has done euthanasia and that it investigates, ladies and gentlemen. But look, what guarantee is this? You, with this lack of guarantees that we perceive in this bill, become a paradigm of that ironic definition of politics that said it was the art of looking for problems, the art of finding them, misdiagnosing them and applying wrong remedies.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u160	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u161	And look, ladies and gentlemen — and I am finished, President — we understand and must give solution to those people who don't want to live, but we have to give assurances to those people who don't want to die. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u162	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez. Author group of the motion, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u163	Thank you, President. I thought that the limit of insensitivity and backwardness in evolution we heard it the other day when the Health Counsellor intervened and objected to our inquiry, but I see it's kind of generic and that you look more like the representatives of the Episcopal Conference than really the People's Parliamentary Group, frankly. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] I also greet students and students from the Institute of Arousa Vilagaría, because I'm sure they and they have ever debated the right to euthanasia and I'm sure that at some point they have come to conclusions very similar to those of the CIS and those of this survey of Metroscopy accepting that each one can decide his death whenever he wants because he's suffering an incurable one. And by their head movements, I think they're actually far ahead of the people sitting on this bench of the People's Parliamentary Group. [[Applause]] It's not only a matter of sensitivity, it's a question of human and social evolution. When you want to vote in favour of new rights you're brave and when you don't want to vote in favour of new rights you also have to be brave, and you're not. First, we won't let them vote on points, you don't choose to vote on points, because the owners of this motion are the Socialist Parliamentary Group, it's not you, and we won't leave them. [[Murmurs.]] You know why? Because you guys on your day, when the law of 2015 was discussed, didn't want to introduce the possibility of having to come here through a report of the law and now they say yes and want to rectify that possibility. And besides, because you've been up to five years without developing a 2015 law, and now they're telling us that they're going to develop it. They don't take our hair, they don't hesitate, they're brave and they say that you really don't agree to vote in favour of a new civil right for people -- that's their problem -- because it conflicts with their morals and personal ethics, that they put it above people's rights. This law will be whatever it is in the Congress of Deputies. Or do you just decide to apply in Galicia those laws that conform to their ideology and their morals? Those who aren't, no. That's exactly what happens with the Abortion Law, which doesn't apply here, because you put your morale and ideology above it. That's called...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u164	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u165	By the way, the opposition's truces and the minority. Well, I'd like the people up there to be able to talk because I'm sure it's not. [[Murmurs.]] That's called...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u166	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u167	...an insult to all those people who do not have the ability to decide when they suffer and cannot be relieved when they want to die. This isn't gonna...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u168	About the amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u169	"And I'm done." This isn't gonna...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u170	About the amendment, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u171	On the amendment we are not going to accept it, because we believe it is included in the last point and because it doesn't exactly coincide, it's not a matter of exempting from responsibility, it's a matter of not even being punished, which are very different things.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u172	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u173	This isn't about family rest, it's about a new civil right that you want to deny. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u174	Thank you. G.P. motion. of the Galician Socialists on the policy of the Government of Galicia in relation to the situation of primary care of the health system of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u175	An amendment was tabled by the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u176	To formulate the motion, Mr. Torrado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u177	Thank you, President. I'm still in time to say goodbye to my compatriots, I'm from Castro Alobre, but... compatriots too, everyone... the country has it wherever you want, that's a personal thing. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's a small country, but it's beautiful, Vilagarcia is a beautiful place. You're invited to come anytime. I'm from Castro Alobre, we're a little... but he's always happy to come. Miguel Ángel González Estévez — let me admit it to him — a person referring to the People's Party of Vilagarcia, the very great person who departed from life very soon regretably, was a teacher in that institute and magnificent person; the truth is that we have to recognize him and, in that sense, it's a good time to do it. We're talking about primary care. Today we have a lot of debate on health. The problem is that I have to talk so much today that I look like a Member of the BNG, who I have to be very involved in these debates, but I am delighted. [[Murmurs.]] The truth is, sometimes... No, no... Don't laugh, I said it 'cause they work a lot more than you do, so I said it too, huh? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] More than we are sure, but man! And more than us, too. [[Applause]] Well, the ratio of work per person is higher, let's leave it there, it's fine; it's a good correction, Mr. Puy, it's okay. [[Mr. Puy Fraga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Together we all make a number of speeches, it is the same, we arrive at that consensus, Mr Puy. [[Murmurs.]] So in this sense, it's never ungrateful to talk about health, though the truth is that lately it's a little bit more tense, because we have notoriously increasingly contradictory positions. And I'm coming in now — I'm sorry for the jokes — on a more timely or more focused issue. Last week's inquiry, from which we were able to step up this motion, we wanted to focus — and so on — on an analysis that the board itself commissioned to an expert consultancy on the health system, the public health system especially, and with reference experts, who, in collaboration with some experts in the Greek system who decided on the advice, did a comprehensive, quite profound analysis of the system and that we had the debate because we believed it was a very useful starting point. We disagree on some point-by-point matter, as is normal, but we think it's a very useful starting point. This is what gave rise to this document, which you know, and fruitlessly that interpellation gave an answer from the counselor who told us something else. And we understand the confusion, because, in the face of the problems of constant primary care, this board commissioned this analysis document and this analysis plan to experts, but it is also true that it constituted 547 joint committees of persons other than health care. But it's true that, before that, he said he was already implementing a primary care plan and it's true that before that he said he was with an improvement strategy of primary care. And let's say that in the end, between so much strategy and so much plan, they don't know very well, when they ask them about something, they answer, or, what's more natural, they do know, but they don't want to answer the things they're asked. Because this document, this analysis of experts, is a slap on the people's health policy. We asked about one job, they answered about another and said, how could it not be otherwise, that everything was already done. Well, the reactions of the People's Party on the basis of the criticisms made by professional collectives, users, a set of workers, also by political parties — even though they do not give us enough — because it was this mix of resolutions or solutions that did not reach anywhere and which basically come to a question that moved them to the health professional groups. It's not about repeating for the last time what needs to be done, it's about doing it. Even if you can continue to find a way to explain again what to do with the system, it's about doing it, and after eleven years nobody's done anything about it. They gave some answers based on the same approach as usual: headlines, photos, propaganda, advertising. Some of them were very interesting. I found it at the end of December and January in the Greek newspapers — you haven't found it, for sure — this document and explosion, a good investment in health advertising. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela shows some documents.]] Let me say that a lot of planning didn't exist because man!, he has almost more lack of spelling than he has paragraphs. There are even misspelled words that exchange letters, I think they were written by a banner alone, and I'm not going to make a lot of jokes, but let me doubt whether there are fourteen public hospitals in Galicia. Let's see if we can count them, fourteen public hospitals. I say that because you announce that there are fourteen public hospitals, according to your account, and according to what they usually say here, there should be more. Let's see if they say something here and then the facts say something else. Fourteen public hospitals, then we'll be able to tell them if they want. But from this, what we've been thinking is, well, it's good to make a booklet, in which they say, by the way, that you enable MIR squares; after so long criticizing the Government because they didn't enable extraordinary MIR squares, now it turns out that you've asked for them. It's all right. Today the counselor said in the morning: we've been demanding that the pediatrics be increased. And he said it well, it's been a year. You know the problem? It's just that the previous seven of us haven't done it, and there's the problem. And you know what the difference is? That in the previous seven they did not and did not increase, and in this they asked and the Government of Spain summoned the greatest MIR in history, also the greatest MIR in Galicia's history, and the greatest MIR in pediatric squares for Galicia, and the largest number of MIR squares of family and community medicine for Galicia. But we're gonna be sensible. If you wanted to criticize the government not summoning them, when he called them, they assume it was the Government of Spain. We can reach an agreement on who called them, but the important thing is that they are there because of that government that you criticize so much. We have come up with a proposal based primarily on what this document says. Last week we read several issues in the document, we're not going to read them all, but it's important to think about what the expert diagnosis is, that there are important waiting lists, too many consultations in primary care, there's an indefinition in the professional service portfolios, high care pressure. They say that in the structure of the model, where primary care corresponds, we need to create executive directions of primary care with resolution capacity. They talk about issues — which the truth is they can certainly sound to them — how to dignify the conditions of work and access to the performance of professionals. They're talking about these issues. By the way, some of us don't share them. They speak of a 100% replacement rate, which is not to eliminate the replacement rate; we share that we have to eliminate it, actually goes to the proposal that we bring the vote today, which we suppose will vote in favour. He's there, he'd like to read it to you... same way he got away from me, Mr. Centeno Cloud. [[Mr. Núñez Centeno utters words that are not perceived.]] You are here: ask the Government of Spain to remove the replacement rate for the staff of the health system. Suppose we count on the vote in favour of the People's Party, you know we're going 7-2 in this debate, we're going to see if we're able to go 8-3. This is a solution, I'm sure you're going to issue some opinion on the matter. So we, by collecting what this document says, are making a proposal, which is obviously not the complete model, but we believe that it is the strategic approach that must go to primary care in Galicia in the coming years. Basically, first of all, a question of staff needs to be stabilized. We have a problem with staff precariousness. This weekend I had the opportunity to listen to some professionals and workers' representatives, and to hear some surprising cases. I can tell you one, I could quote you more. One nurse, twenty-seven days worked in eventuality during the month of December, twenty-seven. Do you know how many contracts you've had? Twenty-seven. Twenty-seven days, twenty-seven contracts. Do you know what's going on? That they all went to the same job. It's very difficult to assume — allow me, we're not up to these things, we're usually told, it's very hard to assume that if there's going to be twenty-seven days of work ahead at a system job, it's not easy for us to predict that it's going to be twenty-seven days that it's necessary to hire someone. Why hire the same person day by day, day by day? The day is over and you have to decide if they hire her again. There are other cases where they hire less days, because they don't hire Saturday and Sunday—so they don't pay— nor the holidays—that they don't pay. And this is the day-to-day system, and we have a staff problem in precariousness. We must — we need, we believe — increase the portfolio of diagnostic tests that professionals can request. I quote — I think I remember — before Mr Núñez Centeno that we are at the moment when more diagnostic evidence can be requested from primary. They don't say so, they don't say so. Miss Friend, I'm sorry. He said professionals say no, and what... No, their not, is that they're neither their own nor mine, it's one thing, I have no one's property. [[Murmurs.]] Look, I'm the one who thinks kids aren't mine, they're my responsibility, but they're not mine, the ones from the pin are you but say about this document. [[Applause]] I mean, the people that you -- you don't personally -- the people who rule hire to do system analysis tell them that it's necessary to give more diagnostic evidence, the capacity of higher diagnostic tests in primary care; tell them, and we defend the same, and the People's Party, what do you do? That's the question. We have raised these questions, raised capacity. Do you remember the debate about nursing training, the debate about nurse prescription? Well, they have the initiative and we believe there are several issues that can be discussed and that would pose a real modification of the model, which must go to a more multidisciplinary model, more open and more resolute than primary, which is not the future, not even the gateway, is the key axis of the system, especially as we have distributed the population today. We hope that they will vote in favour of a document which basically comes up with the main issues that the board's own document collects. If you're consistent, they'll vote for something you're defending and you're in charge.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u178	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u179	Let's see what they do.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u180	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Parliamentary Group Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u181	As we've been talking about all this full-time, the alarm about the health situation in Galicia does nothing but grow and the balance of more than a decade, of eleven years, of the People's Party's government because it's demolition: worse and less public health in the face of a reinforcement of private health, cuts, less budget, less professional, less beds, less resources, less fairness in access. And within this, for primary care like the poor sister. Within this policy of harassment and the fall of public health, the People's Party has given way especially to primary care. Budgets of the year 2020, there are still EUR 142 million less than in the budget of 11 years ago for primary care, and if we do the cumulative of these eleven years, all that has ceased to invest in primary care, if the budgets of the year 2009 were maintained, we are talking about more than EUR 2,200 million that have not been invested in primary care. It is clear that more and less is not done, and it is clear that primary care is a piece to be collected by the People's Party, because the less resolute primary care is because more people need to come to hospitals, emergencies, and therefore this hospital-centred roadmap of favoring certain technologies and certain privatizations is served. In response to this deteriorating situation, which has been evident for years, and to the response of the population, which is mobilized, one day itself and the other, but of the professionals, there has been no other to the People's Party, because collectives, professionals, trade unions, neighbouring organizations, scientific, social organizations, sick people, political organizations, because before a strike call in April last year, in 2009, to facilitate and prevent this strike by Sergas the establishment of a dialogue table, requested both by the convening unions and by the strike committee, to conduct an evaluation of primary care analysis and committed to constituting fifteen technical commissions formed by over two hundred professionals. These technical committees were set up, aimed at analysing the situation of primary care, new competences, service portfolios and making proposals. In this context, where these technical commissions were and are still working, on November 13th, the Health Council presents, with the whole alharaca, a document, at that time, only in Spanish, "For primary vertebrate care of the health system, strategic document and management", a document prepared, according to its own manifestations, by certain experts and which was added to the already announced Primary Care Plan 2019-2020 prior to these fifteen technical commissions and then to a report by experts. So we found ourselves with three documents for the same problem, which is the situation of primary care. I agree with this, the budgets are to be presented by 2020, where there is no budgetary increase for primary care — as I have already said — where the decree governing health areas has not been amended, where primary care remains without decision-making and regulatory capacity, there is no human resources negotiation plan; that is to say, it is an opinion that is done when there is absolutely nothing to be done. With which from the BNG we largely agree with this motion brought here today by the Socialist Party. We have put forward similar ones, we have asked — and there is not much — in commission to the manager of Sergas for this triple agreement to theoretically address the situation of primary care, but what is part of that report "For primary care and vertebrate health system", with which we agree, that, in addition, if we wanted to have heard the People's Party and Sergas everything we have brought here in this parliament or the professionals or the population about which the health problems were, we would have saved the money, which we still don't know how much that report cost. What we do know is that those fifteen commissions work for free and are professionals of the public system who are working for free trying to make proposals for better primary care.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u182	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u183	Well, if I had listened, I wouldn't have needed that report. In any case, we tabled an amendment because there are parts of that report that we agree with, because it comes to say the things we've seen demanding in this parliament, but there are others that we don't. And in addition, we believe, in respect of those more than two hundred professionals of the working Greek public system, that we must demand that those works of the fifteen technical commissions, formed by more than two hundred professionals, be completed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u184	Thank you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u185	...that these conclusions will be published later...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u186	Thank you. We're gonna be late. We're going very hard on time. I'm communicating because, of course, we're exceeding ourselves. Better, if we can sort things out a little bit more, because if we don't, we're going to go at ten o'clock at night. I'm not in a hurry, but there's everyone. Joint Parliament Group, Mr Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u187	Good afternoon again, gentlemen. It looked like the fellow Tourado who had a lot of interventions today; if I tell him the thing, candle. [[Laughter]] At the beginning of a rescue from the previous intervention by the spokesperson of the People's Party on the subject of euthanasia, it is simply a nuance, and it is that in the proposal for decriminalization — it is not the honourable Member who has intervened before — of the Criminal Code which En Marea applied for euthanasia was only talking about the current consent; therefore, it is not in any case a pre-instruction document. I think that greatly conditions the debates and was a rather inaccurate mention on that issue. So point that out. Having said this, and with regard to the subject and trying to be brief, we will support this motion of the Socialist Party. It would really be enough to apply the report of the Galician Union itself to end this medical abuse to our professionals, to our professionals. You don't care who cares about us, and that's the main problem. There is a deterioration in public health, which has, as its first cornerstone of its operation, its good functioning as a system, the professionals and the professionals, who are not being properly cared for. So the first thing I should point out is that, taking a hand in this case from the reports of Galician Union itself for primary care, we would have had a lot of way. It's very good for the Socialist Party to ask for deadlines at the first of the points of this motion, because, if not, what happens here is that when something doesn't matter it gets in a drawer and the story is over. It is therefore necessary to set deadlines. It's three months for action and six months for execution. In any case, the first half of 2020 seems to us to be completely coherent in view of the usual actions of the Galician Union in these cases. As far as personnel is concerned, we agree with all the points that develop there. Just bring here again, to Parliament's gallery, that demand of primary health care personnel, which is not a wage demand, which is not a demand for self-interest, which is a demand for public interest, to have at least five minutes per patient, to be able to diagnose well, to be able to speak, to be able to diagnose, so that we really know what's going on. Because often, if we don't have time to talk, we don't have time to be able to diagnose and make good treatment at the first moment of health contact. Secondly, as far as working conditions are concerned, we think, as the collectives say, that in recent years they have been looking at all of us and all of us, the majority of us, by demanding justice in their working conditions, that we need to take care of who cares for us. In that sense rescue I too bear witness to Adriana, who was one of the many potential nurses in the struggle, who reminded us of how in eleven years she had more than eight hundred contracts, and all this with three oppositions approved in the last ten years. Therefore, there are reasons to come to recognize this renegotiation of working conditions or the improvement of eventuality conditions. And finally, at least for making a reference to this, I think the Socialist Party is honored to bring the proposal in paragraph 10 to ask the Government of Spain to eliminate the replacement rate by the health system staff, and I say that it honors them because it is usually here that the People's Party does exactly the opposite. When they're ruling, they have one position; when they're not, they have another, and we see them confronted completely and continuously with their own contradictions. In this case, at least here, the Socialist Party, which now has the opportunity for this instance coming out of this Parliament of Galicia to be deduced by a government of the same political sign, because it will also put them in front of the mirror, whatever mirror they choose. So I want to keep this situation from being overlooked, which is not customary, and that especially in the People's Party is not at all political practice throughout this legislation. I'm finished with the question of organizational structure and the ability to speed up the application for diagnostic tests, because this would improve the effectiveness of diagnoses in primary care and therefore early attention to certain diseases. The waiting times here are important and that primary health care personnel have the ability to access diagnostic tests more agilely, so that they can make both diagnoses, so that they can start treatments in cases where sometimes the passage of time can be lethal. It is something that should be greeted unanimously by all political forces. For the rest, I totally agree with this proposal. For our part, nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u188	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Joint Left Parliamentary Group, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u189	Thank you, President. In fact, if there was first a debate about the need to balance the situation of health in rural areas, in the health model, of course what it has to do with primary care in the whole of the Galician Health Service, I think it is necessary — and it has been highlighted in the lack of staff we are having — to take a look at it and take a look at the model and the situation of primary care in our country. I believe that in recent years it is obvious that steps have been taken in the opposite direction, and since the beginning of the economic crisis and the cuts, mainly in matters of personnel but also in other areas, I believe that the path was to destroy the health model that we had today. The sustainability of the health system and mainly of primary care, but in the whole of the health system, cuts cannot be achieved. The system is not going to be more sustainable with privatizations, with cuts, reducing budgets, but to make the system more sustainable you have to reduce the burden of disease; that is, people get less sick and therefore the cost is lower. And for that, we need to strengthen what is prevention and health promotion, elements that are within primary care. So, the decrease in effective staff paintings, the reduction in primary care services in many municipalities, the difficulties in coverage of casualties, permits, vacations, which for the first time made many centres wait lists, the only thing they did was to make health care rights worse not only for the whole population, but also for the system's sustainability, because, when prevention and promotion are reduced, what is a worsening of the system's sustainability, and then we put our hands on the head when people access emergency services, saturation on many occasions those emergency services. Indeed, as it was moved here, that document that the People's Party had commissioned should be so upset that no measure was taken in relation to its own content. In fact, we just need to take a look at the previous analysis that they do before talking about their own measures to see the compendium of situations that they describe, which are a little what defines the problem within primary care in our country: saturation of schedules, lack of time to care for people, centralizing attitudes of the agencies, lack of support for their own primary care, lack of support for the community health model, difficulties in focusing attention on people, difficulties or lack of support for teaching and research by the Health Council. In fact, it's a long and many other elements, which are critical, very critical of the proposal that the Health Council has been implementing in the last decade. That's probably why they didn't want to air the document or take any kind of action that took the document, which is self-critical about the measures it has taken in ten years at the Health Council. We are going to support the initiative, because we understand the initiative presented by the BNG, because from the beginning we said that it had to be the professionals themselves who moved what was the situation that had primary care in our country, because it is the ones who tend to have a hand or the ones who are daily facing this situation of saturation of agendas, lack of coverage of absences, low support for research and for teaching, elimination of squares, the impossibility of working on multidisciplinary teams, which is also another of the elements that focus on the document itself, and of course we believe it would also be good to include that element. I'll be done by now. We have spent many months discussing the lack of sufficient budget for primary care and model change and, in fact, it will finish legislation without the Government presenting a specific plan to improve that situation about staff, and we want to insist at this point — and I'm finished already: the global, central problem, which currently has the health system is the lack of sufficient personnel, by previous cuts, to deal with the different services, and therefore I think that in that sense the need for short, medium and long-term planning, as recommended by the documents we have on the table, I think it is essential and that it should be the way that the Government should follow. So, in that sense, since it would be necessary to expand the initiative, in what is the Socialist Party's proposal in this case, we will support this non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u190	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u191	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Look, Mrs Solla, with regard to a sentence of yours from the previous motion, we are not fools, eh! we are not easy to cheat and we vote for what we vote, and if we vote for what we vote, it's because maybe they don't believe you. With regard to today's motion, we're talking about a document about what certain phrases or things have been said here that don't match very much with reality. Mr. Torrado, speaking of the catalogue of tests, in urgent measures, says, "To draw up a catalogue common to the entire Sergas of diagnostic tests for primary care, based on evidence according to clinical practice and the equity of the system." Indicate yourself more, indicate less, says what he says. You read isolated phrases the other day, even isolated words of this document, totally decontextualized. Allow me to read that to you as much as I said. He says, "This strategic and management document sets out the vision for the strengthening of primary care in Galicia in the coming years." - They're not as quick as you. "It is appropriate to underline"—?textual—"this introduction"—by the way, in English on the Sergas website—"that Galicia is one of the autonomous communities that has made fundamental progress in the development of its health. However, the work done is not designed to collect progress, but to focus on detecting areas of sufficient improvement." Not everything in health care or primary school is as bad as you mean. The saturation diagnosis of the schedules. It says textually: "...too many waiting lists in some specialties, while primary care services are very accessible. The hospital specialists have important waiting lists, which causes discomfort and reverts to excess consultations in primary care." For nothing does the document say that there are waiting lists in primary care, otherwise it says that there is too much accessibility. On the saturation of the consultations, it refers not to the shortage of professionals, but to management waves. Highlight this document to e-consult and to the phone query. What we heard in this parliament when the phone call was approved, my dear God! We can go to the Journal of Sessions and listen to what was said by opposition groups about the phone consultation. In the strengths of the system it stands out: "The current model of primary care, despite its crisis, has brought proximity, accessibility, longevity, social justice, professionalism and global order of the health system. "Healthy areas" — listen, Mr. Torrado — "are" — primary experts, eh! — "a model of territorial and integrated management, which is based on improvements in the relationships between levels, as demonstrated by the clinical information shared through Ianus, the interconsultation model or integrated clinical trajectories." With regard to human resources, the paper says: "More human resources in primary care is positive, as is planned to do counseling and Sergas." It's being done, it's in the press all these days. "This will especially cover the generational substitution. In general, Galicia lacks human resources, but they are poorly organized." I think they disagree at many points with what you're demonstrating about Welsh public health. We are convinced and certain that the Government of Greece will assume the conclusions of this report — it is doing so — that enables us to face the realities of primary care in a manner consistent with the primary care plan 2019-2021, and the urgent measures, these urgent measures that come into effect in the document, are already being put into operation, are being put into operation and many of them are being put into operation. That is why we are not going to vote in favour of your initiative. There are other suggestions, such as the closure of the CAP and the integration of your professionals into primary care teams, which have already been proposed by you in some document when they ruled. Even the person who signed and drafted this chapter of the CAP, Dr. Manuel Martín, defended at that time to close the CAP, and then, with his platform, to open up more CAP or increase CAP personnel. I would like to ask you, Mr. Torrado: would you like to return to the Bipartite document in question of the CAP? Do you agree with the closure of the peripheral consultants in the municipalities? We wouldn't have to hear from you, from the rest of the groups, if the Government of Galicia had made these suggestions of the document!, that we wouldn't have to listen! Look, about the Greek plan, the action plan that you demand — because you don't talk about the document at the initiative, you talk about an action plan from the document — here you have the action plan. [[Mr. Núñez Centeno displays a document.]] This is the primary care plan, that's the plan, the plan that's already contemplating the proposed urgent measures. There is an independent evaluation commission constituted — the councillor himself said —. At the moment — which I have a bit left, which will allow me, as the rest, to the President, to talk about the replacement rate. In the United Nations-Powered Government Agreement and the Socialist Party there is nothing to do with the replacement rate. Other rates are shown, but not the replenishment rate. And, of course, about what the Bloc has signed with the Socialist Party, I will repeat it, I will repeat it in Spanish, because it is in Spanish on the Socialist Party's website: "To analyse the formulas to progressively improve the rates of replacement of troops in public administrations." This is the urgency of the elimination of the replacement rate for the Socialist Party and for the Nationalist Block Galego. This is what they signed. Here it's very easy to piar, now it's very easy to piar, but what you signed is what you signed up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u192	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u193	It's over, Mr. President. Look, you can take advantage of it to insist in Madrid, today there's an Interterritorial Council for the coronavirus, it's time to demand the removal of the replenishment rate, and the rest of the measures approved in the Interterritorial prior to the motion of censure, which could help — and much — solve the problems of primary care in Galicia. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u194	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Motion author group, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u195	Thank you, Mr. President. From our group we thank the support expressed by the different groups. We have planted the Galician Nationalist Block to incorporate its amendment as an addition, we believe it can be useful, because that work that is being done in the commissions can be useful. Despite that news for those people who work in commissions, the German plan is already here taught and done. So they're working for something nobody's gonna listen to. I say this because, if the PP claims to have a plan already made, it is that the conclusions that will come out of this commission will not make them any damn case — and I apologize for the word. I'm accused of not reading the whole document, it's 43 pages, it's hard to read here... yes, I can read it all, yes, but then I'd need the president to give me more time, and it doesn't correspond — I believe, and I'll share it with you, Mr. President, that you'll put me to read 43 pages of a document that already exists. [[Murmurs.]] But, well, since you're talking to me about e-consultation, you're asking some questions here as if they were giving them all the reason. According to this document, since you may not share anything from the People's Party, telephone consultations and e-consultations could greatly solve demand, but they do not have enough support. Well, nothing. It must be that he doesn't talk about saturation problems in health centers. Excess consultations in primary care. Of course, I can't read the whole document; besides, it's a little bit out of delicacy; if I read the whole document, it's going to be very painful. But, well, I read a few parts the other day. On the rate of repositioning -- which is very interesting, the truth is it's very interesting -- the other day was here -- understanding that they're going to vote against again; 8 to 2 we're going to go to this party -- that to see that thing that you've read here, which they presented in 2017 to the Government of the State, to see if they could leave us a copy, because one thing is that you've read here that you don't know who wrote or where, but we assume that this will have a copy, an entry log, a delivery, there will be a copy in the ministry, because it would be interesting to know if you actually asked for it or not. Finally, you assume that this document is very good, which is a slap — I repeat — a document that leaves the People's Party's health planning at the foot of the horses; they even assume that they are already doing everything that this document says. By the way, measurements, yes, four years, two years, also a few to six months. Curiously, which proposes our initiative, at six months. Look, if it's gonna be the end of the day that you're going to order a document, pay some experts and decide on your system's professionals. Of course, the problem is that you were talking about me and yours. If you have chosen, if there are concellers from the People's Party who have drawn up this document, and we have told them that they are professional contributors. You order a document, you choose people who do it, you pay for it, and then we're the ones who tell you to apply it. Of course, it's a little incoherent. [[Applause]] At any rate, they're going to vote against something that you propose, saying, as always, that is already done, and the question is that you are the other thing, you in health are already the other thing, they've given counseling for amortization. All right, in a sense they're right, they're looking at saving their face, screws, like, some headlines, they're something else. I won't call them pet party, eh!, I won't do that. You with Vox are more than a Vox tamagotchi than anything else, but you're something else, and how they are something else we have a problem, which is that we have a system that's falling, because you're pulling it down... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u196	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u197	...and there's a problem that you don't want to solve; see if they don't destroy anything as long as they're left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u198	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u199	We shall proceed to the vote on the motions. Close the doors, please. We begin by voting for the Group of the Left's Joint Parliamentary Group. No amendments were tabled. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. Common Left on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in the field of public health. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u200	We now vote for the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Greek Government in relation to the rights and guarantees of dignity and terminally ill people. He does not accept the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. The People's Parliamentary Group has called for a point-by-point vote. Are you still not going to accept the point vote? Well, we vote as you are. [[Assentment]] G.P. Motion vote. of Galician Socialists on the policy of the Greek Government in relation to the rights and guarantees of the dignity of terminally ill people. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u201	We are now voting for the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia on the policy of the Government of Galicia in relation to the situation of primary care of the health system of Galicia. The amendment of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group is accepted as an addition. Yes, Mrs. Prado, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u202	To ask the Socialist Group for a point-by-point vote. But since there seems to be a bad wording, the amendment of the BNG was not at all point 1, it was only at the first paragraph of point 1. So we asked to vote separately on the first paragraph of point 1.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u203	First paragraph of point 1. Mr. Núñez Centeno, why do you want the word?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u204	As Mr Torrado seems to need the People's Party to vote on the point of the replacement rate, what happens is that it is very difficult, point 1(A)(d) that is to ask the Government of Spain to eliminate the replacement rate for the staff of the health system. In order not to change the result, we wouldn't mind voting separately on that point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u205	I'm told that's a transaction. So if it's a transaction, they'd have to reform everything. Let's see if they agree. Mr. Torado. Give a voice to Mr. Torrado's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u206	Yes, thank you, President. Well, our intention is to vote on BNG's amendment as an addendum, but in addition to the initiative, which seems to us to improve. But we don't think that if we replace the first point, it doesn't make sense all the rest of the rest, so that's one point. Voting within two points is more complicated. We invite the People's Party to do so at the Congress of Deputies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u207	Then there's the thing as it is, I understand. It is accepted as a whole. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Nothing. Then we vote. He stayed the same way he was. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. of the Galician Socialists on the policy of the Government of Galicia in relation to the situation of primary care of the health system of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 26; votes against, 38; abstentions, 6. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u208	The votes were finished. Open the doors, please. We continue with non-law proposals. Non-legislative proposal by the G.P. Jointly, on the recognition and regulation by the Greek Government of the figure of the school nurse and the impulse of an agreement between the boards with competences in education and health for the provision of a square in public and private concerted schools
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u209	There are amendments to the Joint Parliamentary Group on the Left, the Socialists' Parliamentary Group and the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u210	To formulate the non-law proposition has the floor to Mrs. Candedo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u211	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies. The proposal we bring today is not from En Marea, but part of civil society, concerned about the proper treatment of chronic diseases in children around school. This is a popular initiative, driven as a non-law proposal and which in Marea we gladly assume to give voice to citizenship, because we agree with the proposal to the extent that it is about extending child care and education rights and increasing the quality of the Greek public system, with the regulation of the figure of school nursing and the impulse of its staffing in the Greek educational centers. First of all, we would like to greet the people of the commission who promote this initiative in the gallery following this debate, with the hopes that this message will be welcomed. They are part of the commission to promote different people, led by Maite Peña Fernández. And this initiative is supported by the Galician Federation of Diabetes, the Galician Union of Epilepsy, the Galician Autism Federation, the Association of Attention Deficit, Hyperactivity and Specific Needs of Educational Support, different associations of parents and parents, the Association of Papel Bicos, of children with oncology diseases, and the nursing schools of the four Greek provinces. They are receiving support in these days from other trade union organizations and other entities, both in the health and education field. It has a broad and plural support of the citizen. And from En Marea, we already consider it very positive that we are debating this figure, which works in other places in the world and in several communities of the state. We start from a reality where we have a relevant number of chronic diseases that affect children. We're talking about type 1 diabetes mellitus, asthma, epilepsy, inflammatory bowel disease and others. Even so, there are disorders that result in risk behaviors, such as those of the autistic spectrum or the deficit of care and hyperactivity, which affects between five and seven percent of children at school age, which require multidisciplinary and well-coordinated individualized actions. It can be said that an official register of chronic childhood disease is missing. In fact, we have requested data in this regard from the Health Council, including emergency records and health incidences in educational centres. But according to a multicenter study in Galicia in 2011, type 1 diabetes had an incidence of 17.2 cases per 100,000 children per year. Over the course of ten years, five hundred and fifty-nine new cases were diagnosed in younger than fifteen years, of which three hundred and thirty were in children under ten. As for asthma, a study, also from 2011, estimates that the incidence of this disease among children aged 6 to 7 reaches 13.6 percent, and between those aged 13 and 14, 12.2 percent. As this LNP points out, after the diagnosis of any chronic illness, it is important to bring in the tools needed so that this condition does not prevent proper integration of the child into all facets of his life, including school. Because this figure of school nursing has a clear component of inclusion. Thus, a recent study conducted by the Spanish Diabetes Foundation with data from seventeen autonomous communities shows the following findings: The diagnosis of type 1 diabetes mellitus has affected family life in seven out of ten parents, and one out of two had to modify their work to care for their child. Twenty-seven percent of families with diabetic children under the age of six encountered a problem in the school centre as a result of the disease. Seventy-one percent of children with diabetes don't eat in school for reasons of proximity, but also derived from disease, such as ensuring a proper diet and insulin administration. One-hundred percent of the families believe that the school centre can't recognize mild hypoglycemia. In addition to chronic diseases and disorders, medical emergency situations arising from accidents occur in school hours; care that could be taken and resolved by a nurse or a school nurse. There are currently health emergency action protocols and how to deal with certain diseases, such as diabetes, but they depend on the volunteerness of a high-skilled teacher and who has not yet recovered the pre-crisis school hours. Because participating in the teaching team that manages the coordination of chronic illness care programs in a center is voluntary, not obviously the duty of relief and the need to follow emergency self-protection plans, of thanks to compliance. The school alert program is what coordinates the response of emergency services, if necessary. So there's a void that exposes both children and families and teachers. The current legislation does not include the figure of the school nurse in the care of chronic diseases, but Galician Health Act 8/2009 specifies in its article 14 that minors, patients with rare chronic diseases, "should be the object of special attention by competent health authorities" and "have the right to specific and preferential health programs and/or actions", among which a school nursing program can be promoted. On the other hand, health professions have, as we know, a Community dimension, which translates into prevention, health education and information exchange with other professionals, such as teachers as a whole. The figure of the nurse and the school nurse stands in London in 1897. The London School Nephthys Society creates the first positions and determines its functions. It is currently a recognized entity in several European Union countries, such as Sweden or France, and also in the United States, where seventy-five percent of schools have full-time nurses. In the state, which is something closer to us, other autonomous communities such as Madrid and Valencia and more recently Estremadura, Murcia, Andalusia, Canary Islands and Castile and León already recognize it. They are various administrations of diverse political colors as well. To adopt this figure, in our understanding, would place us in the vanguard of attention to chronic diseases in school. The competencies of the nurse or the school nurse are multiple, as it exposes the PNL of popular initiative. On the one hand, the first and fundamental, the care function: to provide comprehensive health care and care to students and the rest of the school community - care that includes control and follow-up of the student with chronic diseases -, in collaboration with the family, optional and other members of the health team; to act on emergencies that may arise in school hours; to administer treatments that have already been prescribed and authorized in writing; to prevent and detect early health problems; to create an individualized history; to monitor the food balance offered at the center. It also has a second role: the teacher, to promote health and healthy lifestyle habits, and to educate the student with chronic diseases and the rest of the educational community in the concept and self-care practices. Thus, it plays a key role in the prevention of disorders such as obesity, early alcoholism, smoking, ludomania, disorders such as anorexia and bulimia, as well as in the promotion of basic knowledge of cardiovascular resuscitation. It also has an essential aspect of living with disease, for those who suffer from it, and a better integration and knowledge about these children who don't suffer from it. Finally, it's an element of inclusion and knowledge. We would also like to highlight the role of nursing in sexual-affective education, in a context -- as you know -- of the appearance of maleistic behaviors in adolescence, of access to pornography to early and growing age among adolescents of sexually transmitted infections. Here, nursing, according to the professor himself, would play an essential role in information and prevention in secondary schools. There's a third function, which is the researcher, which could lead us to improve educational resources in collaboration with the teaching team, evaluate the results in compliance with health promotion goals. And one last function, the fourth function: the function manager. The reference seal of health and connection between the different bodies involved in the health of the schoolchildren, to facilitate health promotion programs implemented by the administration. We are aware of the important public investment that involves the full development of school nursing. But we understand that it is about taking a cost that can positively revert to the level of care, education and even economic. There are some scientific impact papers that point to how, in the United States, every dollar invested recovers and has a $2.2 return, measured in terms of saving medical care, absenteeism from parents and mothers, teacher productivity, avoidance of primary care visits and even avoidance of mobilization of ambulances by lesser incidences than these professionals could solve. Obviously, the presence of a nurse or a school nurse in educational centers would increase the confidence of families to follow the health circumstances of their children. In short, we believe that the coordination of this figure can be achieved in the Interdepartmental Commission on Education and Health, as regulated in Decree 61/2019 of 11 June. We're not saying in this GNP that this figure of school nursing has already been implanted since tomorrow at all centres in Galicia, because we know that this could not be done, much less automatically.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u212	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u213	What we're asking is that we work on the regulation of the figure and its progressive inclusion in the educational centers, which begins the debate and regulation. For this reason, in the name of associations and promoters of this initiative, we propose to the House that it recognises the figure of school nursing and promotes an agreement between the education and health councils to determine their execution and to adjudicate a nurse or nurse to the Greek educational centers, to place us in the vanguard of the state in the attention of this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u214	Thank you very much, Mrs. Candedo. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u215	Good afternoon. And I also want to begin by greeting the representatives of the commission promoting this non-legislative proposal. And I'm going to allow myself to devote a few seconds here to the MP of the People's Party who is not present, but I hope his colleagues and colleagues will transfer it to him, because the People's Party is still very concerned about the investment agreement signed between the BNG and the Socialist Party, which puts on the table relevant and urgent issues affecting the Greek society. And within these important, relevant and urgent issues, the BNG has put on the table the situation of eliminating the replenishment rate. What would have to be asked is how many times the Group of the People's Party, the ten currently in Congress of Deputies, took this issue to the Congress of Deputies and explicitly demanded the elimination of that replacement rate. Of course, for BNG, it's a priority. [[Applause]] So much so that within the 13 matters is this issue, and we're going to keep insisting until this replenishment rate is lifted. It would be good to see what you're doing and what the People's Party has done with this issue. And the disease situation of children and girls of school age is understandable, and it's normal the situation of stress, of insecurity that, in the first place, offers to parents and mothers and to the people in charge of children and children, as well as to teachers and society in general. And this is how BNG has brought here to Parliament various issues related to this, in the need to address urgent issues, part of the reference, for example, to attention to children with diabetes and the need for that attention in the face of rising blood glucose. So we have brought here initiatives to include continuous glucose monitoring systems, to make it easier for children and children to be monitored and not given this situation. We have also brought to Parliament a situation arising from workers and public workers in terms of reducing the number of jobs and paying for certain issues, among other things, for caring for children with serious diseases and the need for reconciliation. And also address certain issues so that this schooling would not be affected, and we managed to change a February 2016 resolution that was prejudicial and did not recognize this right. We're talking about school nursing, which like many other nursing potentials are undeveloped. As the proponent well said, it emerged in the United Kingdom; then there is it in other states. And the existence of this figure was mainly popularized because it was implanted in the United States, and above all through a lot of information from the American model of life that reaches us through all the fields. But we have to say that it is in the United States where there is no primary care as such -- as we understand it and as we currently have it here, even though it is diminished and it will have to be rectified -- and where there is no basic health care and therefore there is no health care for the whole population. So this figure is introduced into the U.S. centers to provide this assistance to a population as sensitive as school-age population and public centers. We are grateful for this debate. It is an important issue for a society to debate on issues such as the health of the population. We believe that there is a need for an increase in health education in all fields of society, which is also necessary for health care and primary care with much more ability to take preventive care than just care of disease. We've been complaining that there has to be enough professionals to pay attention to chronicity, to education...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u216	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u217	...sanitary. But — I insist —...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u218	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u219	...—Finished in a moment, President—...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u220	No, look, Mrs. Prado, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u221	We tabled an amendment to this...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u222	Mrs. Prado, your time is up. [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] No, Mrs. Prado, your time is up. [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] No, Mrs. Prado. No, look, you've got... [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Prado, I'm sorry, you have five minutes to show up. They're all going through time and we all leave them a little bit more. You used a minute and a half to talk about another matter that had nothing to do with it. Article 104... [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Prado, I'm talking. [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Prado! [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Prado, I'm talking! [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Prado, thank you very much. You can go back to your seat. [[Applause]] For the Joint Left Group, Mrs. Solla Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u223	Thank you, President. And welcome, of course, the people who promote this initiative. We agree with the bottom of the initiative. In fact, this is a debate that is not new in this parliament. Our group is carrying two legislations, bringing this issue to debate. We include it in each budgetary exercise in relation to the amendments in the field of health prevention and promotion, in that programme 413A. In addition, as the parliamentary groups know, we discussed in this Chamber an initiative in 2015, in which we propose the regulation of school nursing, in a text to which I am now going to refer because I believe that it sums up in part our position on this issue. So we propose to regulate the figure of school nursing, its implantation in educational centers, as well as its relationship with primary care, and start its implementation through a pilot plan that evaluates the student's number, the needs of the student himself, the teaching or the distance to health centers as well. And in that debate this initiative, which did not go forward by voting against the People's Party, was supported by the various opposition groups, and was added an amendment, that of the Socialist Party, which called for the implementation of the Decree on the Care of Diversity on this initiative. For us, it quite sums up what we consider to be school nursing -- I am a nurse, and therefore it is an element that touches me quite closely, me and my workmates -- not only from the point of view of what it has to do with the direct assistance of the student who has specific health needs, who have been reported here in the various interventions, but also we have done it because of his relationship with health education and the need for it to be introduced, and that this figure can serve as support for the development and maintenance of curricular content at the different stages of education, which are used to educate in all areas of health prevention and promotion. We understand, moreover, that it should be done precisely in relation to primary care — which is why we have just explained here — because it is precisely in primary care where this education is usually done; therefore, this figure should have an important relationship with primary care teams. And we also understood that we had to evaluate — and so we raised it every year in budgets — by means of a pilot plan to progressive implementation, because, of course, different needs will be required depending on the type of student in each centre and the distance that exists from the educational centers with the health centres; therefore, this implant must be progressive. Unfortunately, there is no year ahead of us, and at this point many autonomous communities have already come forward - and it is true that the regulations are different depending on the territory - with this measure. We agree — I say — at the heart of this initiative. It also seems to us that education for health is a very serious element that has to be given, of course, since the early stages of childhood. And that in addition to attention to those chronic diseases that suffer many children and children in our justified country, this figure also exists in attention to the purely care element. And so this is a positive element. If we put forward an amendment, which we've already commented on in his day with the promotional commission, because we understand that the Galician Union must implement or start working on this figure in terms of public centers. That's why we thought that the originally agreed centres should not be the element in which the deployment of this figure is centered. Every time, of course, we believe that it has to be public education — as we have been defending and defending our voices in education matters in this chamber — the vertebrate element of education in our country. Therefore, in relation to the Health Council and the Education Council, this figure must be set up in schools in the public network of the Education Council. We understand that concern can go beyond that student — who is also in other schools in an ordinary way — but we believe that the implantation of the figure must first be given in public education and that, then, if they are required to — "require" not to take them out or put them into the concerteds that implement this measure — will of course be because the administration itself has already done the study of that deployment, has made the mapping of the needs and has come up with an idea of how this pilot plan should be given to start its implementation. We — I say — are very much in agreement and we have put forward this initiative annually. So we'll wait too...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u224	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u225	...to which the proponent explains what he will do with the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u226	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. Mr Torrido Quintela has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u227	Thank you, President. There are more Members than I do today in the Socialist Group. I know it's not, so Mr. Villares said, that he talks a lot more. We believe that this issue - as was appointed here by the previous rapporteurs - is not the first time that this debate is being debated, it is not the first time in question, and it has already been the subject of proposals at this plenary session, as in the Commission, as well as in the budgetary debate. Therefore, from those previous positions, we want to be constructive with this debate, aiming for us to make some progress in a very interesting way. We believe that there are two issues of relevance to be resolved: firstly — and so we have transferred them to the people we meet at the moment — the ultimate goal — in which we agree basically — is to be able to bring this health care plan closer to school, and secondly, it is the operationality of how to do so, which is a more management debate, more concrete. But we must resolve your questions because that's what we want. Firstly, on the objective, we agree with the fundamental approach of this idea, which is to have a service which is dependent on the health system, but which has a service in educational centres, which allows certain areas of health care to be developed within these educational centres. In addition, we believe that not only because some functions are probably much more appropriate in educational institutions, such as health education in a much more applied teaching of first aid, of nutrition education -- there is a lot of work to be done in health education. But there is also the ability of the system to decentralise the assistance of health centres — and I think, in particular, of primary schools and even of a lesser degree of care — that can be given at educational institutions. I, being a boy -- I'm the youngest in my group, but I've been a boy for a few years now -- I've been living some vaccination campaigns at my educational center; and I think that's also an opportunity to decentralise and defuse the system. And so, we think it's not only an interesting idea, but it's useful and functionally very interesting for that. And we have, in addition, — which is fundamental — a body of nurses with a much higher level of training than the system right now allows you to develop, firstly, because the regulatory limitations do not allow it, and secondly, because the saturation in the system -- because there is very little personal -- forces them to operate very quickly. But we have a chance to take advantage of that and we would need resources, yes, for that staff to develop it. This is about the target. And second question: operationality. We believe that the more we operate, the closer we get to this goal. What does that mean? That the more we are able to fine-tune how to do this within an operational reality that we have in the system, the more we will be able to have it closer and closer. What is there for us, and that's why we're presenting an operational amendment? Well, there are some issues that I think are obvious from a numerical point of view, because it's not possible that all the education centers in Galicia have a nurse or nurse. That's not what the collective is all about; there are six children's and six school units where it doesn't make sense either. So we need to be operational, we're not going to have one for every one of the 100 educational centers that there can be about in Galicia, if I don't miss the data -- correct me if that's not the ones who know more about education -- But if we can do it in terms of quotas or ratios -- we understand it as we want -- so by grouping centres, zones or according to the criteria that can be argued, in terms of communication, of dispersion, everyone we already know. And from that, you can establish a certain group of nurses and nurses who can develop this work. We insist: health dependents. Health is the one who has the ability to assume what are the criteria about when to make some health care plans, what criteria should be used, the basic operating principles that must be appealed to from his profession and those that supply the material. All matters will depend on health, but their operation is in the centers. So it's very appropriate as the proposed group suggests, as the proposed collective suggests, that there is a natural understanding between health and education councils. But depending on health and focusing on work in educational centers, there should be the ability to establish not a person per center, but rather a possibility that we had that assistance from a suitable volume of staff. So we come up with this amendment, which basically goes on these operational issues...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u228	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u229	...so thank you, President, I'm done now - and we understand that the essence of the proposal is to evaluate, to start introducing - as the rapporteur said - that it is a start to the road. In that sense, we aspire to reach an agreement, which I hope we can vote together.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u230	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u231	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u232	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. For the Galician People's Group, Mrs. Antón Vilasánchez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u233	Thank you, President. We also welcome the promoters of this initiative. Mr. Torado, the amount and quality aren't always the same. And before I get directly into the question, let me put into practice Galicia's educational model. A model of education and health both above the model of England, Mrs Prado, and, above all, of the United States. Over a decade has been working to achieve equitable and inclusive education, with measures that answer many of the issues posed by this initiative, and I'm going to highlight only three: Starting with the creation by the Bipartite of the School Alert Program in 2007-2008. A coordinated program – as you all know – by the Public Health Emergency Foundation of Galicia, 061, the result of the collaboration agreement between education and health councils; a pioneering program in the state with a trajectory and results that assess its success. Secondly, the 2011 Decree regulates attention to diversity, thus giving us a normative framework in which different measures and actions are determined that aim to give a proper educational response to the different characteristics, potentialities, needs, social and cultural situations of the student. At the very dawn of this standard, the Education Council is developing the Welsh Strategy of School Cohabitation, Educonvives, which provides educational communities with various protocols and resources, such as the protocol of health emergencies with those referred to both diabetes and chronic diseases, or the educational home care itself for the student who must remain convalescent at home. And the third step -- perhaps the most important and most recent -- is Decree 61/2019, which regulates the composition and functions of the Interdepartmental Commission on Education and Health. A pioneering commission that, among other issues, will coordinate existing resources to achieve greater efficiency in promoting health in the educational field, with interventions related to sexual and reproductive health, mental health, healthy lifestyle habits and the prevention of different additions. And it will also carry out programs for the care of the student with special health needs as regards chronic diseases, eating disorders, autistic spectrum disorders and other diseases that involve learning difficulties, as they asked their lordships for a moment ago. If we stick to the role of a school nurse, we can say that all of your lordships know that in the field of the competences of the Education Council, in general, there is a staff of these characteristics, whether ATS, nurse or similar. It takes place in centers where it is considered appropriate to have these personnel and even another in the healthcare field, such as doctors, physiotherapists, etc. We are mainly talking about students with special educational needs, mostly enrolled in special education centres. In Galicia, the Autonomic Administration continues to consolidate the attention to diversity, incorporating more professionals, currently being more than three thousand five hundred in this course, which means that one in ten professionals in education are specialists in diversity care, when in 2009 they were three in ten. Also increasing the training of teachers in the fields of health and equality, implementing new protocols, such as care for the autistic spectrum, TDH, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, it would be important to continue on this path, because it is not true that in other autonomous communities they recognize the figure of unsensual school nursing that determines the General Nursing Council, which says: "School nursing is the professional who is all day in school, integrated into the educational community, who shares programming, evaluations, memories, etc." In fact, as Mrs Solla said, each community develops a model of action, even where there are cases in which the municipalities approach these educational centres. Precisely, for this dispersal of actions, this is one of the collective's demands before the Government of the State to regulate the figure together throughout the national territory. And what was the response of the Minister of Health and the Minister of Education of the Government of Mr. Sánchez, Mr. Torrado, of which you said nothing? That was not a priority. That's why you went up here, put that amendment that goes round, round and round, to say nothing, Mr. Torrado, to make you align with this demand, when, really, your government answered that it was not a priority. That's why from Galicia we will continue to move forward so that our model of education continues to be the most equitable and equal, and we will continue to accompany the student and his families, putting in place resources and means to make effective the integration and protection of health in education in Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u234	Thank you very much, Mrs. Antonio. For the author group of the non-legislation proposal, Mrs. Candedo Gunturiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u235	Good afternoon again. First, thank you for coming and saying that an educational system that wants to go according to the times has to be open to incorporate new professionals. And there I disagree with the speech of the representative of the People's Party, because in other autonomous communities, if school nursing is incorporated; not, indeed, — they are right — that in some of them not under the format required by the College of Nursing. And they also incorporate many other professional communities, such as educators and social educators, which in some of the subjects that were discussed here could make a very effective intervention collectively. I believe that the education system should go with the times and not be afraid to incorporate other professionals who will help the teacher to assume these new challenges as well. Well, I also had in Marea when I approved the budgets a proposal that was economically funded by a pilot school nursing plan. Any approach, even as Mrs Solla has done, has much to do with how regulation can be done. Indeed, the incorporation of new figures is usually done from a pilot plan, surely choosing those centers that have this specific need with greater demand. As for the proposal of the BNG amendment, I mean that this is an excellent starting point precisely to develop this initiative: to identify where are those cases of permanent care to then regulate well through a pilot plan. Let us say that the non-law proposal was aimed at assessing the scope of this initiative, firstly, with an essential point in assistance and then at adding extra functions to the extent that it was developing. With regard to the issue of public and concerted centres, we understand the concern and agree, because our educational model obviously defends the existence of a single network, not this double network, of centres supported by public funds and public management. But we know that the demand for associations is also given because they have detected schooling on both networks, also on the concert, precisely because we know that right now the choice of center is not completely free, nor is it completely ideological, either, but it often has to do with elements of proximity and elements of complementary services, much more when it comes to children who may need proximity to the center, because parents or mothers have to move. And we want to maintain today and now that assistance without giving up that in the future of the only network of publicly funded centres is where intervention is centered.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u236	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u237	With regard to the amendments that have been tabled, I mean that since this is a popular initiative, if I may, I should comment with them on the final text that we could agree on; I understand that there are many elements of proximity in what we are talking about...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u238	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u239	...and as tomorrow is the vote, we'd introduce a text, we'd talk...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u240	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u241	...this final text, if you like. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u242	Thank you very much, Mrs. Candedo. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the processing of the project to build a shopping centre, a new sports city and a green area according to the convention signed between the Royal Club Celta de Vigo and the Council of Mos
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u243	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Joint Parliamentary Group and another amendment by the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u244	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u245	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all of us again. I want to greet the neighbors and neighbors of the council of Mos that accompany us today, as well as the owners of neighborly betrays of Tameiga, who are also accompanying us in the guest gallery. On November 24, 2005, the Full Baro Town Hall approved a plea for the drafting of the timely modification of the PXOM of the Baro Town Hall. It was to create a new public sports equipment, public, in a rustic forest protection soil, and they were around 64,000 square meters, of which 28,000 owned by a mountain community, which gave them to the Town Hall for public sports equipment, and the other 35,000 were own, purchased by sale by the Town Hall itself of Barro, for the construction of a public sports city. There's a report from the Middle Rural Council that said that the area was degraded at about 65% of the surface and that in the rest there was a very low forest mass of pine and eucalyptus quality without any outstanding value. That is why the Committee on Urbanism of the Environment Council approved the timely modification of the Baro PXOM. You'll say that I'm wrong and that I'm talking about something else, because, indeed, I'm talking about the Town Hall of Baro and not the Town Hall of Mos. But today we're talking about something else, something like that, but something else. The same play, but different, on a top floor, with a different story. In August of last year, the mayor of Mos and the president of the Royal Club Celta de Vigo signed not a document with the concrete procedure of the Barro Town Hall for the modification of the PXOM; an urban agreement for a project that included: 250,000 square metres for a new private sport city, 160,000 square metres for a project for the construction of a private mall, 450,000 square meters for a green area of private ownership, even for public use. Nine hundred thousand, more or less, square meters for a private Pharaohic project. Was the land owned by the Town Hall or the Royal Celta Club? No, they are owned by private estate owners and two communal mountains: the smallest of Pereiras, who switched his part to the Town Hall of Mos, and the largest of them, Tameiga, who resists to give in to their lands and also not to exchange them. It's like tomorrow we decide that we're going to have a private mall in the square of the Obradoiro, which at some point we'll be able to acquire. Well, that's what happened. In the Mount of Pereiras, as I said, there was an exchange of land, and it is already being developed through a municipal license for lesser-entity works. One stone was placed to make two football fields and one cellar. At the moment it's the only license to do those three things: two football fields and one basement. They're all doubtful. We do not know why or what will include that shopping centre, which, according to the City Agreement itself signed by the Mayor of Mos and the President of Celta, is what guarantees the economic viability of the entire project — it is expressly found in the documentation. And the only thing there is, as I said, was that first stone that was placed just three months ago and with a feast also pharaonic to which they went -- normal -- the mayor of Mos, the president of Celta and also, and we don't know why or why, the secretary general for the sport of the Unity of Galicia. We don't know if he went to pour blessed water or bless what was being done. For this work — a second doubt — which places a commercial centre above the environment, an urban agreement above the procedure which should be made, as was established in Barro, which skips the natural use of the soil and which has as a model for us the Pharaohic shopping centres, for that purpose, a non-study urban convention for the timely modification of the PXOM by the Town Hall, without the procedural adjudication of the study, without the procedure for the preparation of the environmental impact declaration document. That's right, all paid for by the Real Club Celta de Vigo, which, as we all know, is a public entity. Then there is the Mountain Law of 1989, which says that, for the forced expropriation of the communal mountains, we need public utility or social interest, and that there is an express statement by the Galician Council that says so, the Government of the Union, motivating that declaration of the prevalence of public utility or social interest above the communal mountain itself. It's hard for a private company to pay for all of this, there's that public utility or social interest; or, at least, we don't see it. Then there is the question of Galician Land Law of 2016, which speaks of the rustic forest protection soil and which only allows, in its article 35, to carry out leisure activities, organized sports practice and street commercial activities — we assume that this shopping center of hundreds of thousands of square meters will not be hiking—and also sports, socio-cultural and recreational, public or private, outdoor activities. That article expressly forbids any other kind of uses in rustic soil. That's why, precisely, the mayor of Mos was able to declare the project's super-municipality -- it's hard to understand, because the project doesn't come out of Mos, it doesn't cover other municipalities, it's only Mos -- and it's also approving the timely modification of the PXOM, because the total PXOM, was from 2017, the modification was approved two years later, it was necessary and it couldn't be expected at that time that time. We wonder what kind of public utility or social interest can prevail above a communal mountain like Tameiga. I wish someone from the People's Party could answer us. The next question is also related to sanitation and water supply. Because, of course, there were a lot of allegations from water users communities. And besides, initially the project says that there will be a need for the water coming from Vigo Town Hall, which is taken away from the county on the other side. We don't know how energy will be supplied either, because there's no sanitation here, no supplies or no energy to supply this private sports town. It'll take 30 liters per second. Then they said it was from the Louro Waters Consortium, but that would imply a transvasion that would need to authorize the Ministry of Ecological Transition. And we don't know what would happen in periods of drought to Vigo or to Mos. We'll see what the Min-Sil Hydrographic Confederation says. Then there's the question of access to that private sports town of the Royal Club Celta de Vigo. Because, of course, it is provided for in the document of that urban convention, which is made through A-55, which, as we all know, has almost no traffic, nor has it a zone of accident concentration, which expressly puts it that way. And just in this accident concentration zone is where the project itself would come out, I have it here -- a potential market of six million people living within a distance of less than two hours. We suppose you mean Portugal, because Galicia doesn't get to half of that population, and we assume that not all Galicia would go to Moscow to buy a mall or play football in the Celtic football fields. Besides, there's an unfavorable report from the Ministry of Development on the way out by that A-55. There is an unfavorable report by the Deputy of Pontevedra on six provincial routes. We know that, indeed, the mayor's account is: "They have a lot of anger and everything is political." But, in fact, there are two unfavorable reports that we don't know how they're going to be saved. And then there's the question of heritage. There are archaeological remains in the Pereiras that date, about 2,500 years before Christ, in addition to about ten hectares left to be investigated. The questions we ask are: can you modify a PXOM if the community of mountains in Tameiga does not give way to land?, how did the project of adjudicating works, which are already being done?, to whom have they assisted?, by what procedure — why do we not know—? Does the Government think this project facilitates the implementation of the Real Club Celta above other possible adjudicators that can be submitted to the procedure? And we don't know who's going to receive the final play. That account that you count is hard to understand when it's for a private work of a private entity. And we don't know very well what the Town Hall of Mos looks like in this matter. We'd like them to clarify it. We ask you not to use this project because you don't adapt to the current legislation, I've already talked about the Law of the Land and the Law of the Municipal Mountains. And also because there are so many doubts that we believe that they need to be clarified, if possible — in addition to negative reports — in the meantime. Because, if not, the problems will be tremendous, not just for the environment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u246	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u247	...—Finished already—but also for everything that can come in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u248	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan. We move on to parliamentary groups. Mr Casal Vidal has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u249	Good afternoon. Good afternoon, too, to the people who visit us. Let's start with a motto that seems to some like very much: speculation with the territory for the benefit of a few. So we could finish this intervention by now, but we're going to take a little more time. We think that we can define the construction project of this sports city of Celta which, as the spokesman for the Socialist Party has already commented, plans to expropriate 864,000 square meters of mountain in Mos, half of which correspond to the mountain in common. In this sense we express our support for all the struggle of the vicinity of Mos and of all the associations that oppose this project, in particular the Communards of Tameiga in the defense of their mountains. This performance corresponds to a model and an outdated and wrong logic that has great environmental impact, as well as an occupation of the territory that does not favor sustainable mobility and acts as a very negative ecological barrier. If you are really developing the map for the sustainable transition of Galicia, the conclusions should make it clear that the major shopping centres are a true black hole of energy, of water, of destruction of close trade and of destruction of net employment. They do local trade and proximity, which is the most social fabric it generates in all our cities and villages. And when you get to the level of current delirium of projects in Galicia -- now above all in the area of Vigo, but previously in the area of the Coruña -- as you no longer have to do, they start to pummel each other. I mean, a real disincentive. Through the false speech of the generation of employment, progress and diversification of the economy, we try to justify these appropriations as beneficial to neighbouring, but these benefits will, as always, fall on the hands of a few, and they will actually attack the common good. Faced with this model, we must bet on the potential for generating employment and fixing the population that constitutes the sustainable management of the communal mountain. The mountains in common have enormous potential in the conservation and placing on the value of ecosystems, biodiversity and resources, so there would be potential and not eliminate them, as is intended for this project. We must also defend the role of mountain communities in environmental restoration projects at a time when building resilience in the territories is a fundamental step in putting a stop to the consequences of climate change. It says the same climate strategy project of the People's Party and the Government. They say they've developed a lot of CO2 capture areas. Well, this doesn't look the best way. But, of course, we've also met with other difficulties. The Law of the Land, of the People's Party, allows precisely expropriate to speculate. All these lands are subject to protection by their qualification as forest rustics; however, Galician Land Law allows PXOM to rightly exclude the land necessary for rational urban development. Is it really justified and rational this project?, do you really think it?, do you really think to expropriate so that there are people who can speculate with private resources and infrastructure?, do you really intend to move forward with this project? In addition, we believe that the operation has every basis of being considered illegal, because after expropriation we cannot predetermine who will be the land tax collector, who in his case should be granted through a public tender. Many entities from various agencies also submitted unfavorable reports. I'm not going to link them because the Socialist Party spokesperson has already commented on it. On the contrary, there is, yes, a great argument, and the major defender is the mayor of Mos, who insists that the sports town and the shopping center — this morning textually — are endorsed by the polls. If the polls say so, why do we want the laws? And besides, he's not staying there. He overflows when he declares that he is studying legal acts against the Community of Mount Tameiga, that is, against his neighbours. All right, that's how it works! Indeed, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, if they insist on pulling forward with this project they will generate another black hole, but this time of votes, such as those already in Verín, in Touro, in the industry in general, in the shipbuilding industry, in education, in health and in so many other sectors plagued by this government. You really can't speculate with the territory for the benefit of a few. Do not insist on seven projects and remove them immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u250	Thank you very much, Mr. Casal. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block, Mr. Bará Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u251	Good afternoon. I also want to welcome you to the representation here of the vicinity of Mos, and not only to welcome you but also to express our appreciation for the exemplary struggle you are carrying out in defense of your mountain, your land, your lives, your water. This is the Galician really worth it, not that of a government that's against people, in this case and in many others it's against the neighborhood. [[Applause]] And I offer them -- it's free advice -- to change their name to the General Environmental Quality Directorate. I think they should call it "General Directorate of the Environmental Cacicada," because this is what they're doing with this project. And to the General Direction of Territory Planning, which is also having a fundamental participation, should be called "General Directorate of the Urban Chanchullo", a general direction of the culture of the ballatzo, because this is an example of a book of culture that goes against logic, against environmental sustainability, which goes against rational use of the territory, which goes against sustainable development. Is this really the model of country, of sustainable development, of fighting against climate change, which sponsors the People's Party? Is this Galicia green and blue? Look, the green is already in the woods. This is the mountain of Mos, of Tameiga, of Pereiras, it's green, it doesn't have to be touched. Take your hands out of the mountains of Tameiga and Pereiras because what they want is to destroy it. And they're just saying in the document that what they want to do here will improve what's going to happen. But how can they be so shameless, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party! And then they say that this project is adapted to the spatial planning guidelines. There's, of course, a lot of face, a lot of dying, a lot of dying. And then there's the subject of how you happen above, absolutely above, what the law sets, the law of the ground. Look, these are the land exploration work to do an early phase of the project, which they're doing without yet approving the modification of the general plan, which is another scandal. There are huge cliffs and walls, blacks, which far exceed the three meters in height that provides for the Law of the Land. [[Mr. Bará Torres shows a photograph from the gallery.]] That's how you pass the Land Law through the bow of triumph. And, of course, this aims to do it in context with a private company, the Sociedade Anonymous Deportivo Celta de Vigo, and they want to do it by modifying a PXOM that was approved three years ago, a PXOM that said that the municipal mountain, the neighbouring mountain, was fundamental from the point of view of environmental sustainability. You want to laminate him, you want to break him, you can't call him otherwise. And that general plan made three years ago, also predicts a third-party dollar use for commercial uses of 78,000 square meters built. And it turns out that only this amendment aims to build more than 189,000 square meters. That was sustainable, and now what's your name? They're 200 times more than expected in the general plan. It's clear who you serve. This is not a timely change, Mrs. Egerique, this is a substantial, very substantial change. And what's more serious is that it's done to the letter, that it has names and names, that everyone already knows for who it is. By the way, like Barro's, who was also clear who was behind, as public had nothing. What's the matter is that she was much less injured than this one, because she didn't reach 100,000 square meters. It was just for a sports town, not for a shopping mall. And it was thrown down by the General Directorate of Urbanism in 2008. So here it became clear the role of the People's Party Meeting, because, in addition, it gave orders clearly to the President of the People's Party when, in an act that took place in Vigo on December 15, 2017, it clearly said that "the People's Party will accelerate and validate urban use when it is necessary to unlock the future sports city." It's clear. This, if it's not prevarication, goes by rocking the pole, Mrs. Egerique, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. [[Murmurs.]] What? Well, you or Peace or anyone you touch. I don't care.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u252	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u253	By the way, another very clear example of case-prevariation, power diversion and use of public institutions. Here's the first stone. No, not just Mr. Lete Lasa, here's the whole major plan of the People's Party. [[Mr. Bará Torres shows a photograph from the gallery.]] It's the first stone of a sports city to be modified by a general plan and it turns out they take a picture, to present something that is not yet approved, Mr. Vice President of the Board, Mr. Rueda...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u254	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u255	...the Headmistress, Mrs Pastor — by the way, she has nothing to do with...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u256	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u257	...or the Middle Rural Counsellor, who also has a lot to do with the project. This is a real scandal that will benefit...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u258	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u259	...only private interests, but we won't allow them. He won't allow them to be near Mos...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u260	Thank you very much, Mr. Bará. Your time is up. For the Joint Left Group, Mr. Cal Ogango has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u261	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Welcome to Tameiga's neighbours. Mrs. Egerique, isn't she in the People's Party? Ask where she is. You're in the People's Party, aren't you? There were representatives of the People's Party. I don't know if you're no longer in the People's Party or if you're ashamed of your party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u262	Mr. Cal, Mr. Cal, forgive me a second. It's not just for you, it's also for Mr Bará. If we personally address Members who are not in the debate, then there will be a turn of reference. So please focus on your intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u263	There's no problem he's talking about.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u264	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u265	As far as Mr Mos' project is concerned, with the inclusion of the mall, when we talk about this issue, we're talking about the last big attempt at urban ballast in the country. When we thought these practices were things of that past that we should be ashamed of all of us, we see how today we still intend to expropriate, even if we intend to spread land to neighbors and neighbors to put them in the hands of private companies, to put them in the hands of a private person to do a good business. We continue with the privatization of profits and socialization of losses, and the use of the Administration for private gain and against the common good. The story of the attempted policeman of the Tameiga Mountain is full of tricks and trouts — as Mr. Centeno said this morning — but also on the other side, fortunately, we have people who are defending their land against the policeman, where we are not finding the People's Party but we count on a united neighborhood and ready to reach as far as it is necessary in the defense of what is theirs, in the defense of dignity. As I said, on the side of the tricks and trolls we find ourselves with barbarities as the project that just approved the Galician Union comes to say — it has come up with something Mr Bará — that is positive, that there are positive things for the environment in the realization of this project; as, for example, what it has to do with forest fires. Obviously, if we cut down all the trees and load up the whole mountain, there will be no fires. This is in this project and this has just approved the Galician Union, barbarities like this. Within these tricks and trout, I also want to highlight what has to do with the urban and land management situation. According to Article 203 of the Galician Soil Law Regulation, and Article 22.7 and the fourth transitional provision of the 2015 Recast Text of the Soil Law, this project cannot be treated as a simple modification of the PXOM, but should be considered the revision of the general plan. That's what the regulations say, but to Galician Junta, the laws and regulations don't matter because we have to go ahead with this urban ballad. There are also no reasons for social interest — which is equally important to the People's Party — necessary to be able to apply any kind of expropriation. Because the only social interest we see there, of course, is that of society itself, social interest is the interest of society. And Tameiga's society is manifesting itself and is united in the defense of its mountain and against this project. So the only other interest that comes across here is that of Mr. Mouriño. But the People's Party and the Galician Union don't care and throw forward. The proposal on mobility is also not viable. We have already talked about the problems of A-55, of all the infrastructure problems you have. And it should also be pointed out that the mobility study indicates the need to strengthen the urban public transport system from the city and Vigo, which goes beyond the strictly municipal area. But the People's Party, without that solution, also doesn't care and throws forward with the project because we have to shoot forward with the urban ball. Nor does it take account of the Galician Union, when approving this project, as it affects small trade, as it affects the real economy. Mr. Casal spoke also of this matter. There are examples throughout the country and enough studies that say how this affects the real economy and small trade. And finally, I want to highlight another reason why both the People's Party, the Galician Union, and anyone who defends the common good and respects rules and laws, should discard this project, which is what it has to do with water. We do not guarantee the sufficient water resources in the project to meet new demands generated, there is no report of the company or supplier, the document recognizes a high risk of affecting groundwater. In this situation, the Galician Union moves forward with the project. It's absolutely the same because we have to move forward with the urban ballast. When we are in a situation of climate change, when the Water Framework Directive — a directive to be complied with — obliges the principle of caution in relation to climate change in relation to water, the People's Party skips the laws, skips the rules, and everything through this great urban platoon. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u266	Thank you very much, Mr. Cal Ogong. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos Couñago has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u267	Thank you very much, President. First of all, and so you don't confuse my new look change, I'm not Mrs. Egerique. No, no, I just looked at them a bit confused. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm not, unfortunately for me and lucky for her -- I also have to say so -- [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Look, I'm going to make a preliminary clarification which seems surprisingly necessary to me. Look, urban authorizations are regulated acts, i.e., they are subject in a precise and taxative manner to legally established ones. So they're alien to the discretionary authority of the Administration. There are no options, there are no alternatives we can choose from. The sports town of Celta shall be authorised if all legal requirements are met and shall be refused otherwise. I think that everyone understands this, don't they? But the PSdEG today brings us a LNP where he prefers to put his party interests ahead of law enforcement, that's the reality. Urges Join not to process a file as long as it does not adapt to the current legislation. But if that's why we have to deal with it!, to know whether or not we can adapt to the current legislation, and by incorporating, by the way, among other things, the corrections that the Ministry itself indicated — which he didn't say it couldn't be done, he said that in order to do so, some corrections must be made, that's what it indicates. But you'd rather make it obvious. And it's obvious, in addition, that not to process an administrative record is an act described in the Criminal Code with a very ugly name. It's called "prevarication." But in addition to being legally impossible, if you admit the amendment to BNG, it will become metaphysical impossibility; because BNG intends to report negatively from the Joint Report and, yes, without processing it. I don't know how to do this. It is of note, except that they apply this maximum of the democratic left, which is that of "nothing seems fair to me not to be of my own taste" and for that they redirect the procedures and do not doubt, first, the use of institutions for partisan purposes. I was telling Mrs. Vilán that I was saying the mayor of Mos that they were mad at her. No, no, what happens is that the Pontevedra Parliament has, surprisingly, not hesitated to make a report — which, of course, extra-limited its functions in its content — which also filters the media before the administrations concerned itself. Yes! [[Murmurs.]] Nor do they hesitate to permanently manipulate the truth. Today Mr Bará did it by teaching some pictures. Mr Bará, all the performances that are taking place on those lands are authorized. Yes, yes, yes, of course it is, because they correspond to the part that already has a license. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] To say otherwise is simply out of ignorance or out of very bad faith. I ask you to correct him or go to court, which is what you have to do. [[Applause]] But, look, we're used to it, we're used to it. Look, the mayor of the Porriño... no, man, no! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'll explain. [[Murmurs.]] The mayor of Porriño has left these days...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u268	Silence! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u269	He came out these days questioning the supply of water, just like a Vigo concoiler and like you did today. It's funny in the case of the mayor of the Porriño, because I have here a report from the Louro Water Consortium, of which I'm going to read only two sentences: "The timely change can be hydraulically satisfied from the ETAP of the Vales, both to ensure quality and to have a guarantee of supply. Guillerei's EDAR also has the capacity for biological treatment of the increase in residual water flow." Of course, this is a technical report. The curious know what it is? Who the signer is the president of the Louro Waters Consortium, who is curiously the mayor of the Porriño, the same one who says he has doubts about a report that she herself validates and signs. But honestly, how can you have such bad faith! And, look, the last one is that, besides, it's worth everything. It is also worth generating citizen alarm by resorting to pseudo-mafia practices, such as inventing a municipal fictitious water company, creating false water receipts by inflating amounts, sending them to neighbors' homes seven days before elections, and, in addition, to all this, supplanting the Town Council of Mos to deceive, alarm and manipulate neighbors. That's what was defined here today by some voicer as "exemplar neighborly struggle." Make a trick, send a trick! Look, I have to tell you something, too. The alleged authors of these events have names, names and political flesh, and look where, not the People's Party. And what is the objective of all this? The goal of all this is to submit to Mos, of course, yes, because you don't mind the construction of the sports town of Celta, it bothers you that it is done in Mos — a decision that corresponds only to the Celta of Vigo and the Town Hall of Mos, and to which no limit can be placed than the scrupulous compliance of the law. By the way, some were asked about the supra-municipal character of the performance. Home!, I don't know if you doubt the supramunicipal character of Citroën's enlargement by the fact that the lands where it expanded were exclusively Vigo's. Did he then have a supramunal interest or not? Or do you only have a supra-municipal interest when the interest is asked for a PSOE mayor? I don't think you should say those things.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u270	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u271	I'm done. They don't mind the construction of the mall, they're upset that it's built in Mos, and that's why they don't have a problem with the very short distance in the neighborhood of Vialia, Valadares and Recaré.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u272	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u273	And they weren't worried about the water supply in Lourina. It only affects Santa. And, therefore, the same mayor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u274	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u275	...that criticizes the sports city in Mos offered land in the Porriño. I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u276	Thank you very much, Mr. Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u277	Look, the Galician Union, the Council of Mos and Celta are fulfilling the commitments they made in the "Sculpture Pact." Others put on smiles and now they'll have to explain why they're not doing it. No, don't worry. I was going to say I could be disappointed, but from whom nothing is expected, there is no disappointment. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u278	Thank you very much, Mr. Pazos. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u279	As Mr President asks me, first I would like to thank the opposition groups for their support, speak first of the amendments and then answer Mr Pazos. We're going to accept part of the BNG addition amendment. And as this is still being voted tomorrow, we still have the chance to talk about it. We do not accept the amendment to add the Joint Group because it seems to accept the possibility of a shopping mall, and we do not accept it at all. Mr. Peace, sometimes I'd like to give in my time so that you could keep talking, I'm telling you, really, seriously, because that phrase, "Your goal is to submit to Mos," is absolutely glorious, it's glorious. And the more he talks, the worse. Manipulate roughly the truth is to say, as her companion said, that the Law of palliative care had not come into force when the girl Andrea Lago died, because it came into force on August 17 and the child died on October 9. That's manipulating the truth in a way that's not sensitive and rude. We don't manipulate. You came here to talk about what you wanted, because it's hard to go to the top of the climate to say that you're fighting climate change and then defend cement, shopping centers, six million, at least, of vehicles circulating in front of us and synthetic grass fields. It's hard to say that. I don't know what the advisor would go to Madrid at the top of the climate talking about climate change, because it's complicated. It is true that the mayor of Mos had a good teacher, who was the former president of the Pontevedra Deputy, whom he very much liked in the fields of synthetic grass. It's true, it's true. I really liked the football simile that Mr. Bará used: "Shrinks the pole of illegality." It's true, and that's why we resort to the strategic environmental assessment of the Directorate General of Environmental Quality, which is May 2018, which says the following: "The Institute of Territory Studies says that it is for private uses and supplies, so it is necessary to properly justify the choice of expropriation. Water supply forecasts must be clarified." It goes on to say: "This timely change can lead to significant landscape effects. We need to justify the need to deploy a shopping mall, and better in other alternative locations." Heritage says that special attention should be paid to the study of the protection environment of the Roman laying of Pereiras. The Mino-Sil Hydrographic Confederation says it would directly affect catches of groundwater. And so we can go on to the infinite. And that's you, because you didn't think, for example, about the carbon footprint of those six million cars. They didn't even think about the light contamination that can involve, and so on, and so on. It smells like urban illegality, which we'll see as it ends. And you had to come here and say, "We will not because we bet on the cement model." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u280	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan. We moved on to the next non-law proposal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Left Joint Group, at the initiative of Mr. Xan Xosé Jove González and Mr. Paula Quinteiro Araújo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to increase the fishing opportunities of the sector in the manner, ensuring the sustainability of the species in inland waters
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u281	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u282	To formulate the non-law proposition, Mr. Young González has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u283	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I confess I wanted to start this intervention with two wishes, and I can't fulfill either. The first was to greet the new Mrs Candedo, who is not right now among us. And the second one, since it's the last hour of the afternoon, I'd like to sing a song. And I think that the only person in this room who can meet her and that can sing her isn't between us either at this time, which was the one from "There comes the boats in the way, fishing sardines in the right, and they come and come and go, towards Rianxo they go fishing." I think a lot of the people we're here will meet that Tamara cup. And it's exactly the way, the art of historical fishing, centenarian, secular, what we want to talk about today. Since the 16th century we have known the use of this fishing cloth that is used from small boats in low creeks. It's a traditional art, it's a selective art, which is used -- and it's very important to realize it -- only within the rivers of Galicia, only within the rivers of Greece. It is mainly used, at 85%, to fish for the sardine. The sardine is a fishing resource that has us all and all quite worried about the state of its wharves. Even though these populations have -- let's say -- a cyclical float throughout history, we really care about the state of that barn. Currently this species is managed by a plan called Iberian Sardine Management and Recovery Plan, which was published in BOE on June 5, 2018. It is an interstate plan, between the Spanish State and Portugal, and signed by Minister Isabel García Tejerina of the People's Party at that time. The plan shares the possibility of catches, and collects nearly three-quarters of that amount — or 70% — from Portugal. Fisheries and manages Portugal 70% of the sardines of the Iberian waters thanks to this agreement — or unfortunately —. In 2019, the total allowable amount for fishing in Iberian waters was 10,799 tonnes. As 70% is reserved for Portugal, 3,571, of which Galicia accounted for 1,480 tonnes in 2019, for the whole Spanish State. It is then important to see what this amount is reserved for art in the way. Spain's quota will be divided according to quota consumption, and 2.57 % will be reserved for vessels of minor arts that use art in the manner. In 2019 the amount reserved for the way until 31 August was 65 tons, 65 tons of 10,800!, a quantity at all lights insufficient for the more than 400 vessels licensed for this art. That's why the possibility of fishing for the whole year was practically exhausted at the beginning of last summer, which angered and put on real warning to the whole sector, which, after a blackout of protests and a small cession of quota by the fence sector, could continue working until the end of last year's campaign. In order to conclude, and not to draw any more figures, last year, of 10,799 tons of sardine fishing possibilities in Iberian waters, the vessels finally fished 109 tons, 109 tons of 10,799! One percent, one percent in 100 sardines, went through sustainable selective art in the way, which has 429 licenses in Galicia. It's like stopping to think for a moment. Of course, it doesn't seem that we can make the sailors and sailors responsible for the disturbing state of this species. By the way, the state of Sardinia continues without knowing it in depth. We're still waiting to receive data from the reports already committed in the spring of last year, as indicated by the General Secretariat of Fisheries in its resolution of 24 April 2019. And then in the summer, by the way, the Portuguese Government hid by unilaterally increasing 25% of the number of catches, basing itself on alleged studies that collected the improvement of stocks. Let's hope so. Finally, the only certainty is that last fall was the Iberas 0919 campaign between the Spanish Oceanography Institute and the Portuguese Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere, the IPMA. They both worked on a joint goal about the jouba, a project that ended on September 27, last year with results, apparently hopeful. Returning to the way, their situation is quite frank, drifting towards their forced disappearance because of their situation of defence and precariousness. In 2019, almost half of the fishing gear was fished in 2017 —109 tonnes, as I said before, compared to 208 tonnes of 2017. The number of licences also decreases year after year, with 429 vessels currently licensed to use this art. But only 109 of these 429 licences finally released fishing in the manner in the Greek ports in 2019 —300 did not use this fishing art, seeing, logically, this data—. It's the third part, and by the way, less than in 2014, that was 166. Since our group is not the first time we have shown our deep concern about the situation of this sector due to the insufficient quota reserved for a fishing art that should be conveniently protected and valued for its selectivity in catches. And throughout this period, what did he do to Galician Union? Practically nothing — indeed — is said by the Companions of the People's Party — beyond managing precariousness and misery. And for that he made his own plan of management the way for 2019, with a maximum catch of 30 kilograms per crew member on board and day, to which they would be added 30 kilograms per vessel and day; and without questioning, of course, in no way from San Caetano, the state management plan signed by the People's Party — in the Government of the State at that time—. That small amount of 30 kilograms has already been reduced in the first part of the year, voluntarily by the fishermen themselves, to 20 kilograms per crew member to try to safeguard the annual allowance they had. Let's stop thinking about this: fishermen who don't want to fish, fishermen who want to fish less. What happens is that your quota is so small that they have the logic and it gives rise to concern that it runs out in the months when the product has an almost irresidible value on the lengths. That is why, in consultation with the sector, we are told that many vessels that decide directly do not go out fishing. For you to have an idea, the price of sardine on the far side varies from euro cents to a maximum of 10 euros — which came to be in the summer of 2019 on the far side of Rianxo, precisely. Last week, on January 28, we saw the Galician Union publish its sardine management plan this year, a plan that obviously does not provide any solution to the underlying problem, which is the shortage of quota. The only variation with the previous year is simply to reproduce the self-limitation patch of the fishing to 20 kilograms per person and day plus 20 per boat, counting a maximum for the first quarter—attention!—from only 4 tons for catches in the way in the waters of the Galician rivers. What she's doing is working together — and officially — with the division of misery. That's what the Galician Union is doing on this subject. We think this patch is to pull balloons out and condemn the way to their practice of disappearance. A plan is really needed, but a deep plan of exploitation and recovery, not only of the mere management of scarcity. A plan is needed to support, promote and disseminate this art, to speak of its tradition and its sustainability, and thus increase the value of its fishing. We believe that the Galician Union has sufficient tools to put in place a truly ambitious plan that will solve this problem. The main tool that exists is a reality that is systematically denied by the Union itself: the possibility of bringing forward the management of the fishery itself within the inland waters of the rivers, which is where the fishing is done in the way. That is why we propose that the German Government push its own plan of complete management of the sardine in the way to the inland waters of the rivers, which is where this sector is fishing; a plan which we also propose to be made by means of co-management with the sector itself. What we understand is that it's going to condemn people in the way they fight for the frangles. Let us remember what Article 5 of the interstate plan says: Spain's quota is divided according to the consumption of quotas in previous years. Obviously, the sector of the way, in a history of quota consumption, will never compete with other fishing gears. From that point of view, it will never be more than 2.57 % in this plan. Of course — and this for us is very important — people in the way they are expecting are facts, what they are waiting for is not that they accompany their precariousness, what they are waiting for are decisive facts to try to recover and self-management the sardine alley within the rivers of Galicia, in the inner waters of Greece. He needs -- and so we demand today -- not to be devoted to patching up patches and helping to drain water out as the sector sinks. That's why we want a plan in which Galicia really assumes its competences and responsibilities, a plan that not only collects and manages all the catches we understand logical to the way, the plan has to include clear measures to ensure the economic sustainability of the sector, the biological of the resource and also maintain its cultural value. All of this is what we expect this House's groups today to support our sector of the way, which is really maturing year after year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u284	Thank you, Mr. Jove. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u285	So let's go with the last initiative of the day. I wanted to complement what Mr. Jupiter said at the beginning of his speech quoting Castelao, who said what the sardines would come back if the governments wanted. And, indeed, we are facing, once again, when we are talking about the sea sector in Galicia, not a resource problem, but a problem of political decision-making for those who decide on the remedy. I was speaking of the rapporteur for a small quota, which I dare — as I have done at other times — to speak of a share of misery. It is a management plan—which is responsible for the state but it needs accomplices and consensors like the Government of Greece, the People's Party's Union—to condemn a sector, as it is in the way, to this truly outrageous situation. We've already dealt with this situation. And we have to remember again that we are faced with a professional activity in Galicia which carries out a strategic sector, such as the craft sector, the bottom sector. It's strategic because of its social dimension, because of its economic weight, and because it gives life, it divides income and economically energizes coastal towns by its income. We're talking about a sector that has a high impact on villages like Rianxo. We're talking about 227 vessels that have permex authorized for the practice of the way. We're talking about Rianxo, we're talking about Arousa Island, we're talking about Roundabout, we're talking about Cabo de Cruz, we're talking about Cangas, Combarro or Cambados. It's an art of small boats that have in their permex this art, which must be added, in addition, to the clusters that go also to the juuba. And it's an art of enmalle, which means it's selective. I do not know how many times it will be necessary to repeat in this Parliament that is selective and that more than 85% of the catches correspond to the sardine. It's a sustainable art that must be out of TAC and quotas. At the BNG, in response to the demands of the sector, there are countless times that we demand this question. We also demand that the Galician Union exercise the exclusive powers of the Galician Statute, which is insufficient and shallow but in force — which we know at the BNG — the Galician Autonomy Statute is not repealed. And in its Article 27.15 it states that it has exclusive powers in inland waters, which correspond to the German Government. But the People's Party has no interest in exercising those exclusive powers and, of course, in achieving absolutely nothing more. Today we repeat it again: eleven years of government of Nuñez Feijóo since the People's Party returned to Galicia's Union and their most accomplished competencies! I mean, he hasn't asked for anything else, he doesn't want to have instruments to act in those sectors that are decisive and strategic to our country. We therefore agree with this initiative on the need to take action. The sardine fishery is regulated by this joint management plan of the Spanish State with the Portuguese State, where the Portuguese State remains with the best part. Besides having a lot of quota, you've got a few conditions to be able to fish for more days, on the weekend, etc.; i.e., they are conditions of discrimination with regard to the Greek quota. And within that small distribution, I will not repeat the data of the way, never above 2.57% of the misery. And how much is 2.57% of the misery? Well, much less than misery, an unacceptable rate of misery. He said we're in agreement with what's going on, and we're just presenting an amendment. The initiative demands that the Galician Union, in the exercise of its powers, establish a management plan, and we present an amendment in the sense that at the beginning of this initiative is included in "demanding the Central Government to exclude art from the way of the Joint Sardinian Management Plan." I mean, exclude her from TAC and quotas. Although this special plan is not the TACs and quotas established by the European Union — because this plan is made to bridge this issue — it is in essence equally a matter of TACs. Because, indeed, the Greek Government has mechanisms to act, but at this moment it is the Spanish Government who determines the accounts, who determines and who signs this agreement.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u286	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u287	I hope you accept the amendment. But, anyway, we will vote in favour of the initiative, even if it is not accepted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u288	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u289	Good afternoon. Obviously, we agree with the initiative. And I can say that because it was one of the first initiatives I've undertaken in this Parliament at the end of 2016, which was already truly amazed and worried that the rate in the way for 2017 was 210 tons. It was an amount that at that time seemed absolutely insurmountable for a sector — I say — of nearly 400 vessels. But the situation has not only improved since at that time we made the complaint to the Government of Galicia and also to the Government of the State — at that time the two governed by the People's Party — but the thing was the worst: 100 tons in 2018, 62.07 tons in 2019 until 31 August — which is when the true marketing potential of the Sardinia is exercised. Last year — as has already been said — the sailors themselves had to self-regulate by setting up a 20-pound summit. Who can live a job with 20 kilos of sardine on the far side? How much can it sell? At most, in a good time, for 20 euros or perhaps a little more. With that, can you live a family, and after a job as hard as this? Indeed, if I have presented an initiative exactly like this three years ago and it was intolerable, for now, that we are in the third part of what we already thought to be inescapable at that moment, it is truly surprising; especially given that — as it has already been said too, I will not be repetitive — the amount absolutely priceless over the total quota of sardine. Even though it's getting lower and it's in very worrying conditions, yet it's still totally priceless. And that is why we reiterate what we said three years ago: ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, the Government of Galician Union, exercise their powers! I just don't understand. It is explicitly stated that the Statute of autonomy of Galicia, the Government of the Union of Galicia may legislate and have absolute powers in the inland waters. The way he almost does his entire activity in inland water. Why don't they exercise them? And besides, look, they would now have even another way of protesting the Government of the State, because it is also necessary to tell the leaders of the Socialist Party of Galicia and the Lords of Podemos that they also proposed before the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries that Sardinia in a way has to leave European quotas and TACs. First, TACs and European quotas have no jurisprudence and jurisdiction in inland waters. It would be appropriate to exercise it on the side of the board. And on the other hand, to recognize that fishing is more sustainable and with a truly priceless impact on the biological mass of the sardine in the North Atlantic cannot be that it is in this situation. Especially because the socio-economic impact that is so much talked about when negotiating with Brussels is even greater than in other types of more industrialized fisheries. So, I say, addressing both the People's Party and the Socialist Party and the Podemos, they do their job in both governments, because this issue cannot be solved. Its economic involvement — let's say macroeconomic — is absolutely priceless; and, instead, the microeconomic involvement for families who complete their income with this activity is very important. Take it into account and see if it's true that this year they don't have to do the same thing they had to do last year, that of self-reducing quotas to 20 kilos per crew member, because that's why a family really can't live. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u290	Thank you, Mr. Casal. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u291	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we agree that it is necessary for the different fisheries authorities, both European and central and also autonomous, to be sensitive and to recognize the peculiarities of art in the way in Galicia. And not only are they sensitive, but they also take them into account when it comes to legislating about matter. And this is the position that the Socialist Group has defended and will defend. Because also in 2014 and 2015, when the European Union wanted to ban itself and eliminate art in the way, because Members and Members of the Socialist Group in the various administrations in which we were represented opposed. And Members of the European Parliament have also opposed this elimination. As it is said here, art in the manner is an art of enmalle which is sustainable, which is selective and which is respectful of the marine environment. This is a traditional art that has been used since the 14th century in craftsmanship, which is predominantly done in inland waters. The bulk of the freezing fleet is faeninating in the rivers of Arousa and Vigo. And that means they do their activity in inland waters with a negligible impact on biomass for their activity. But, of course, these peculiarities and characteristics of art in the way are not taken into account by the Galician Union, by the Councillory of the Sea. And to avoid these peculiarities puts this art at risk in the way. And it's just that the Socialist Party doesn't say it, that the sector itself and trade unions like Agamar already warned in 2014 about the possible disappearance of art of the way in our community, and accused of the covert silence of the Galician Union in the disappearance of artisanal fishing in Galicia. They defend and defend that artisanal fishing — and especially the way — cannot be put in the same bag as that of the great ships that make out of the lines of the waters of Galician competition. The Greek Government doesn't listen to his claims and, as I say, puts the way at risk. And it may be that this Government of Galicia — which adopts measures based on the political profitability that they can give them — thinks that only these 429 vessels, with an average of one or two crew members per boat, do not give them the political profitability they expect and abandon them to their fate. The problem that exists at the heart of this issue is a problem of competence which is not exercised by the Government of Greece. Because — as I have already said — art in the way develops predominantly into inland waters. And our Statute of Autonomy, as the spokesperson for the Galego Nationalist Bloc, states in Article 27(15) that the Greek Community has exclusive competence in fishing in rivers and other inland waters; in shellfish, in aquaculture, in hunting and in fishing in river and lake. Therefore, the Galician Union has exclusive powers in inland waters. But I'm very afraid that the spokesperson of the People's Party, when he speaks, will dodge that competition and turn it into management and management. But, look, the Statute is clear, without ambiguities. All that is needed is political will to exercise the powers that belong to the German Government. And that's what this decisive part of the non-legislation proposal is about, which today brings the Joint Left Group to this plenary and which, of course, the Socialist Group will support. What is needed — I repeat — is political will to help the way and exercise the exclusive competences of the German Government. Look, instead of looking for permanent confrontation with the Central Government, they use that absolute majority of what they so presume and govern for the benefit of the Greeks and the Greeks. But, of course, those who remained seven and a half years as vassals before Mr. Rajoy's governments now suddenly want it all for now before the government of Pedro Sánchez. Don't lose the strikes, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, in looking for this confrontation with the Central Government, they don't lose the forces to put a socialist government to work with the Spaniards and also with the Greeks and the Greeks. They exercise their powers, govern and put measures to save art in the way that is what we are debating today. They rule and stop using the Galician Union as a branch of the People's Party. They govern and exercise their powers — I repeat —. So we agree with the proposal in this non-law proposal and in which the Greek Government must establish its own management plan for the way. He can and should do it, as I said, because he has exclusive powers in inland waters. I'm done. They rule well for the way. For that, they need to rule properly. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u292	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u293	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Before we started, Mrs Otero, the only one who's been here stalling the competitions, and who hasn't named anything of the sardine's plan in the way, was you, because it's a plan, as it was said — it also touched Mrs Otero a lot — of the state, a joint plan between Spain and Portugal. We will support this initiative. You're nervous, they always put the car in front of the woods. They also did it in the previous LNP. I don't know what happens to them. You're here very closely following the decisions of the People's Parliamentary Group. And we've always been in the same place and we'll always be in the same place. Look, you guys are asking for a management plan. Mr. Young, the management plan is over. We can disagree, we can have different ideas and believe that it's better one way or another, but the management plan already exists. And with regard to the increase, as other speakers have said here, it does not belong to the competition of the Union. Mr. Casal, you say that since 2016, since you presented that initiative, things have been worse. And not so, things have improved since that one. Yes, Mr. Casal, and then things happened, because he acted, because he supported himself and because that plan was also approved. So, from 2016 until today things have actually happened and there has been a lot of talk to the sailors themselves who dedicate themselves to the way. And we also know perfectly — and without being experts here — how biomass is, how it is going, how it is exerting and how sardine is depending on the times and the areas we address and what we talk about. As I said, we're going to support the text of the non-law proposal as it is. If they add and accept the amendment from BNG, no, because it would be to reject a plan that was approved at five years ago and that we agree with and support. We believe, moreover, that precisely the plan, to which it was made reference, of recovery of the sardine, joint plan between Spain and Portugal presented on December 4, 2018 with a duration of five years, is what guarantees the fishing of the sardine, is what guarantees the way. This non-law proposal, according to which I could read and intrude on the explanatory statement, seems to refer to the December TAC agreement. But that's where the sardine doesn't come in. So I think there may also be some sort of mistake there. It's not an object of fixation here, in that negotiation there was. So, I think you have to have a look at the ICES recommendations, in addition, because really, if you don't take the recovery plan into account and heed the ICES recommendation, the way is almost gone. We have this news on December 14, which says scientists raise their veto to the sardine, but they plan to cut the current coupon by 60%. So, I look at just taking into account the ICES recommendations and not taking that sardine recovery plan into account. As I said, the plan is precisely to avoid things being automatic — to put them as a qualification — and so we take into account, in addition to this, the issues we have always talked about here and the three-dimensional, so important, social dimension, the economic dimension and the environmental dimension. I'm that triple understanding we've always talked about and with which the Councillor from the Sea to Brussels is negotiating, which always puts forward the sustainability of fishing in Galicia, which always defends the way and the minor arts of Galicia. Because you are committed to saying that the People's Parliamentary Group, or that the People's Party or the Union, does not defend it. For precisely this joint plan with Portugal is what you are doing. And I also look at Portugal because the minister has just said that he will heed the ICES recommendation. And, as I say, if you heed that recommendation, you're greatly reduced by quota and you might be very affected by sailors. In any case, the Council of the Sea and the Union are concerned about the situation of the stock of the Iberian sardine, which covers the waters of the ICES, VIIIc and IXa areas, as it has been said, both external and internal; and, above all, the repercussions that may have on our fleet of siege, including the racu, the siege and the piobareira; and also the way, which is what we have to talk about here today. Both the Sea Council and the sector themselves participated actively in the development of this management plan between Spain and Portugal, as well as in its modification. And it continues to participate annually in the fixing of quotas and catch limits so that, in coordination with the sector, the Central Administration — that Mrs Otero says that we have failed our powers, but you didn't even appoint that plan, that is the Central Administration plan — and the other autonomous communities concerned, if you can have opened up the fishery and manage the available sardine in the best possible way. We must remember, in addition, that this measure has also improved biomass. I mean, really, the amount of sardine we can afford — which does not depend on us, as they said here, depends on other factors — it must be taken into account so that the way we can work, both in inland waters — I insist — and abroad. So I have to make a point and say that, as far as the allegations of the usual competition on the part of opposition groups, the competence of the autonomous community, of the Galician Union, in inland waters could allow us to set autonomous limits on a resource if it were only in inland waters. But it's not the case of sardine, the sardine is on the outside as well. We must therefore take into account the extent of that stock, which is wide, and it is not even Spanish alone, which also covers Portuguese waters and hence the current regulation with the cooperation of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u294	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u295	I'm done. I mean, in case there were doubts, that the Treaty of Lisbon was adopted on 13 December 2007, when neither the People's Party in Spain nor the Government of Galicia ruled. And in that treaty it is very clear that only the European Union can legislate and adopt binding acts in the case of conservation of marine biological resources within the common fisheries policy. So you have to know the context we're in, where we came from and where we're going.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u296	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u297	I believe that this plan — I insist — is right and we support its initiative as drafted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u298	Thank you. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Jove.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u299	Well, from the Left Joint Group we understand that all groups will support this proposal, which seems to us to be a great news for the fashion sector, to give it a little chance for the future. Of course, some of the things that were heard here would be shaded, and others would even be debated. Of course, this is the plan of the Galician Union for Sardinia. There's actually a plan for the way, but that's it. [[Mr. Jove González shows a document.]] There's obviously the possibility of making a real plan, a plan that really includes everything that has to include a plan. And with regard to the Sardinian situation, of course I have already said in my intervention that we too are concerned, despite the fact that it really seems that these results of the Iberas expedition can be hopeful at least. But still someone read here the Galician Autonomy Statute, which recognized exclusive competence in fisheries in rivers and other inland waters. But the Fisheries Act itself 11/2008, including in the 2009 amendment to Article 7, states: "The same and the same purpose is for the competent fisheries council, after the hearing of the sector concerned, to adopt the following measures: annual or multiannual management plans for species found within biological safety limits...". But there is also paragraph (b) "Multi-annual recovery plans for species outside the biological safety limits." I mean, if there can't be a plan of exploitation because the sardine is below the biological safety limits, what we expect from the Galician Union is a multi-year recovery plan. Of course, this should come out of scientific reports that expose the fishing stock as it is. Of course, it seems to us that this is good news, it really seems surprising to us this radical change of posture and, of course, we congratulate ourselves on that. As for the BNG amendment, we're not going to accept it because it seems redundant and could even create some insecurity, since it could be in a vacuum right now. We understand that it's taken for granted that it can't affect the state plan if we're going to create an indoor water plan, a plan for the Galician rivers. In Marea we registered this initiative in 2017 when we were still a unified group. And, curiously enough, 2017, which seemed to be a catastrophic year, wasn't, at least, the worst. We also want to thank you for your support on the PSdeG. As for the sensibility of administrations, we also expect that sensibility of the Government of the State. Of course, it was also a moment of risk to the European Union's belief in eliminating art in the way it was confusing it with flyers or driftnets of height. To get an idea, a net can be 70 meters high and a steering wheel can be 7 or 8 kilometers high. We think that we must also take into account the dimensions of things, and we think that all the Greek political groups should be aware of these kinds of issues. With which we thank all the groups for their support from the Joint Left Group. And nothing else for today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u300	Thank you, Mr. Jove.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u301	Yes, Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira, why do you want the word? Give a voice to Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u302	Thank you, Mr. President. It's about an inaccuracy to which Mrs Vilan has just been referred in relation to the moment when the proceedings were requested in relation to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u303	Sorry, I wasn't in the debate, but... [[Murmurs.]] Let's see, if there's an inaccuracy, that might be. I'm sorry, the Rules of Procedure say it can be answered, and even at a later plenary session. [[Murmurs.]] Even at the rear. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Man, I think this is what the regulation says. So if it's inaccurate and if you want to correct it, I suppose we should. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u304	Yes, solely, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is to apologize for the possible inaccuracy that could occur in relation to the date of the death of the child. What was meant to point out was that, at the time they applied for the trial of the first instance, the law was not in force. And finally, what was involved, ladies and gentlemen, was to clarify that, if this law were to be in force, all that suffering would not have occurred. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-04-DSPG147.u305	Allusions or corrections have no replication. We're suspending the full. Thank you.
