ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u1	The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, so we do not proceed to its reading. He justified the non-attendance — therefore, delegates the vote — Ms Rosa María Quintana Carballo, who does so in Mr. Pedro Puy Fraga. The Bureau and the Presidency have authorized the delegation of this vote. And, no more, we're on the agenda. Promise or oath to fulfil and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute for the Autonomy of Galicia of the new Members Ms Anne Belén García Vidal and Ms Maria Felicia Rodríguez Carrera and Mr Manuel Santos Costa
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u2	We begin with a preliminary point, in accordance with Article 7.1 of the Rules of Procedure, whereby we make a promise or an oath to comply with and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute of autonomy of the new Members and the new Member. According to the procedure, the formula is to answer "yes, I swear" or "yes, I promise" to the question of this presidency. I'm asking you to answer the question we're going to ask them. Let us stand, please, the members of the Bureau. Mrs. Ana Belén García Vidal, do you swear or promise to abide by the Constitution and the Statute of Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u3	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u4	Thank you. Mrs. Maria Felisa Rodríguez Carrera, do you swear or promise to abide by the Constitution and the Statute of Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u5	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u6	Thank you. Don Manuel Santos Costa, do you swear or promise to adhere to and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute of Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u7	Yes, I swear.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u8	Thank you very much. Once you have made the promises and the oath, you acquire the full status of Members and Members of this Parliament, respectively. Welcome to Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] We continue, then, with the development of the plenary. Full debate of the draft general budget law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the year 2021
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u9	Amendments were tabled to Groups I and II by the Socialist Parliamentary Group of Galicia and the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia. Mr. Valeriano Martínez García has the floor for the introduction of the bill.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I am today before Parliament's plenary session to present the draft budget law of the Council of Galicia for the year 2021. Even though we are, a year longer, in the face of the most important economic debate we can have in the House, this is not another year. The 2021 accounts are undoubtedly marked by the situation caused by the coronovirus pandemic, which has been affecting the world for almost ten months now. This context requires that the budgeting, the main tool of the Government of Greece for the development of its economic policy, be the main channel for the return as soon as possible to the path of healthy growth in which we met before the eruption in our pandemic lives. After a few hard months, the measures taken, the citizen responsibility and the imminent beginning of vaccination in Galicia allow for a greater future of hope, but, in any case, without lowering the guard, without entrusting ourselves and putting all the tools within our reach to overcome the triple crisis — health, economic and social —. Although the impact is being lower in Galicia than in the rest of Spain, the coward-19 has changed everything and has very negative effects that it is necessary to continue to fight. From a macroeconomic point of view, the latest known data on GDP developments in the third quarter consolidates what was already pointed out in the second quarter. And the conclusion is that the trend, within the enormous difficulties, is still better in Galicia than in Spain. Thus, inter-trimesteral growth was 14.6 % — two tenths above the fall of the previous quarter, which had coincided with confinement — and the inter-annual rate was -6.2%, 2.5 points below the fall in Spain. This official data reinforces the prudent and realistic scenario we anticipate in the budgets, because we believe that GDP will fall by 9.7% in 2020, 1.5 points less than in Spain as a whole, which will be 11.2%. We're also waiting for a strong boost in growth in the next 2021, about 8%, helped by these accounts that are strongly betting on productive investment and social spending. As for the labour market, the average unemployment rate for 2021 is 12.9%, but with two very differentiated phases: one, still very complicated, in the first few months, with the expectation that job creation can recover in the middle of the exercise. One more budget, Airef evaluated our forecasts and even improved some of our estimates. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that the impact is being reduced, although very important, is undoubtedly due, in part, to the fact that at the Galician Summit we acted quickly as soon as emergency alarms were lit up from the WHO pandemic declaration, clearly setting three immediate economic policy objectives, as were, firstly, to facilitate the effectiveness of public health policies; secondly, to minimize the loss of income and jobs during the period during the greatest impact of economic activity; and thirdly, to provide the liquidity and orderly functioning of both payments and suppliers. These three objectives are complemented by a room, which will, with permission of the evolution of the pandemic, be the great protagonist of the year 2021: to promote, therefore, policies that allow as soon as possible to recover all wealth and employment lost by the coward-19. For this reason, and in this context, the budgets drawn up by the Government of Greece, in the course of this Parliament, have three main priorities. The first one is to keep fighting the pandemic. Even though data is better than a month or two ago, we must remain cautious and keep an eye on ourselves so that, at the beginning of vaccination in the coming weeks and its development for months, we can overcome this situation as soon as possible. That's why the high priority of 2021's accounts is to strengthen social and public health care by placing modern and well-equipped infrastructures, as well as preventive policies in both primary and public health care. As a second priority, we set out to articulate the necessary financial resources to support economic recovery with strength, building on the structural reforms that need our economy to make it more resistant and competitive by adapting to the requirements of the green and digital transition. In this objective we also frame the momentum of a new regulation of administrative simplification and economic reactivation which is also being dealt with in this House, which we hope will be approved as soon as possible, because it is very important to speed up the administration's response to contribute to economic reactivation by simplifying procedures, favoring the deployment of companies, making tractor projects viable and ultimately building confidence for those agents who create jobs and wealth in our community. And the third priority must be to care for families, pemmes and autonomouss in all their needs, to make them feel accompanied and supported by the Administration with these budgets, and that the resources and measures planned contribute to overcoming the effects of the pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to meet these three priorities we need resources and management, resources to have economic capacity and to deal with such a complicated situation and with so many needs, and management to optimize each euro to implement the budget in an axile and efficient way. This set is logically the moment when we have to take stock of extraordinary incomes that will also allow us to face exceptional expenses. After several exercises reducing the deficit and debt ratio, this is the time to recover these funding mechanisms. In this way, the resources that sustain the spending policies collected in the accounts of 2021 will have special characteristics motivated by the reality that constitutes this health crisis. And it has to be that way because, for evidence, we have to see that the system of self-financing is neither designed nor prepared to deal with extraordinary disturbances like the current one. And when there's a drop in income, it clearly shows its limitations. In this regard, I would like to remind you that the European Commission has communicated the activation of the general safeguard clause of the Stability and Growth Pact for this and the following year, so that a temporary deviation from the adjustment path towards the medium-term budgetary objective is allowed. The Government of Spain has approved the suspension of the fiscal rules for the years 2020 and 2021 in order to alleviate the deterioration in this health crisis, which is replaced by reference rates of deficit and debt. Once we knew this scenario, the political decision of the Galician Union was to make the most of it to mobilize all available resources in order to promote the spending policies that will enable us to overcome this crisis. In this sense, the starting point of a healthy and strict finance and a decade of control will undoubtedly facilitate this extraordinary approach of resources that will come through three avenues: EUR 685 million, by the extraordinary transfer of the General Government of the State; another 685 by the government deficit margin of 1,1 %, which has fixed as reference the State for the autonomous communities and which we make ourselves; and EUR 430 million for the first year of the React EU fund. That's how we have to deal with this set, because the normal thing is that income from the autonomic financing system represents almost 80% of the total non-financial income, but in this exceptional budget, only 67%. In fact, resources from the financing system amount to 7,849 million and decrease by 1.6 % compared to this year 2020. I insist that this development to the low proves that it has many limitations of sufficientness and dynamism, and that it calls for review, as we have already demanded on multiple occasions — yes, multilaterally and agreed among all within the Tax and Financial Policy Council. As I have already made progress, this is the main reason why, ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to resort again to indebtedness as an extraordinary mechanism in this setting. When it was also necessary in the period 2010-2014, the German Government employed it responsibly and always within the authorized limits. This allowed us to stabilize the debt-GDP ratio from that point on, and then start reducing it, as we have already done in the last three exercises. Thus, although this Government has also had to manage the financial crisis until 2014, maintaining this position of prudence and responsibility has materialized in that we are the community that has increased debt in the last eleven years. And we have this balance, among other things, because, as I have already told you in committee, we reject the demands of the opposition parliamentary groups that called on the Government of Greece, budget after budget, to increase debt. For not doing so, Galicia is among communities with a better starting point in a set where it's time to commit itself. Now that Galicia can, that Galicia should, resort to these 685 million euros of indebtedness at an exceptional time. I know I insist a lot on an idea, but I want to remind you once more of your benefits to citizens. In the last decade, Galicia has gone from being among the most indebted communities to being among those who have a better debt-to-GDP ratio. In 2008, we had a debt-to-GDP ratio on average, and with recent data from the third quarter — that the Bank of Spain made officers only ten days ago — Galicia reached its highest historical differential with the average of autonomous communities, nothing more and nothing less than 7.3 points. You know, ladies and gentlemen, how much money is that difference? Supposed to be 5,654 million euros. Yes, we avoid a higher indebtedness of EUR 5,654 million to the Greeks, and as a result, each of the Greeks and each of the Greeks must be EUR 2.207 less than the average of the autonomous communities. And I added one more fact: the policy responsible for the last decade is also reflected in the interest payments of the debt. In 2021 they were under 100 million euros, if it hadn't occurred in the last twenty-five years. For next year, ladies and gentlemen — since you like to talk about cuts — we make a single cut, in the line of previous budgets, and it's in the interest payments. We saved more than 30% of this chapter, where we spent three times less than we did a few years ago. With these backgrounds and the difficulties of the present moment, still suffering the pandemic, from the German Government — I insist — we can and must resort to indebtedness as anticyclical action to boost economic reactivation more strongly. Ladies and gentlemen, this financial scenario allowed us to deliver in this House the highest budget in Galician history. It's a total of 11,563 million euros, with an increase of 13.9%. The main strength of these budgets is that in an exceptional situation, they combine the greatest social expenditure in history and make the greatest investment effort. But we don't deal with having more resources, but we want to use them better than ever. That is why we have been undertaking various measures of administrative restructuring and modernization, digitisation and review of procedures that make it possible to implement these resources efficiently. In fact, planning for resource results management has not ceased during the pandemic; rather, we are promoting a 2020-2021 Reactivation and dynamisation Plan by reprogramming the European funds under the 2014-2020 framework and preparing the new operational framework 2021-2027, as well as the React-EU. And complementaryly, we're already redefining the new Strategic Plan of Galicia 2021-2030, which we'll approve next year, after adapting it to reality conditioned by the eruption of the pandemic. We already have a work done with the holding of thematic tables around four working groups to identify the main challenges of Galicia in the next decade. We have the participation of six hundred experts in the development of population and well-being, environment and climate change, social and territorial cohesion, and competitiveness and innovation. In addition, as a novelty in budgets for the year 2021, we incorporated into the memory of targets and programs a chapter on alignment of accounts with sustainable development goals. The aim is only to guide public policies towards sustainable development in its social, environmental, economic and institutional dimensions. The three foundations that sustain sustainable development are inclusive economic growth, welfare and social justice and environmental protection. In addition, they are part of an institutional dimension set up as an element of cohesion that enables the development of policies geared towards the achievement of the objectives of Agenda 2020-2030. Ladies and gentlemen, as I told you, today we are debating budgets that have more resources in history. This budget includes EUR 11.563 million of non-financial expenditure, to which other EUR 101 million must be added in chapter 8 of financial instruments, which allow us to run out of the expenditure ceiling authorized by this Parliament. And it has a very important quality: that of being a healthier budget, because if we compare it to 2008, the result is a higher spending capacity in nearly 1,500 million euros, but with almost 50 million less for the payment of debt. And it has three unique characteristics: the largest volume of investment, a social record expense and no taxes. We bet on productive investment as a remedy to overcome the stoppage of activity caused by the pandemic, supporting the dynamisation and recovery of the productive sectors. And at the same time, we're looking to contain the current expenses precisely to put all our effort into capital expenditures. The result is a major step forward, because with the sum of chapters VI and VII, together with the financial instruments of chapter VIII to promote economic dynamisation, we cast the EUR 2.6 billion; in particular, €2.592 million for investments, 901 million more than this year 2020, with a rise of 53.3%. By contextualizing this data, the investment effort of the Galician Union in 2021 triples the one foreseen in the territorialized investment of the state's general budgets to our community. Our intention is clear: to allocate 2,600 million euros to reactivate Galicia, to spend, therefore, on generating wealth and well-being. This accelerated investment fits our budget, as I say, thanks to an ongoing effort to preserve the current savings and reinforces itself with an extraordinary resource for indebtedness and new sources of funding. And besides, we managed to keep at very high levels a very relevant aspect in order to be able to cope with an unplanned situation. I am referring to the gross saving capacity that these budgets have, and which has been on the rise since 2017, which keeps practically for the next exercise very close to EUR 2 billion — in particular, EUR 952 million — very close to 2,000 million. This is very important. They have already heard me that maintaining a high level of gross savings — which, as you know, is the difference between income and current expenditure — allows Galicia to have the capacity of its own and reserve resources to cope with any exceptional situation. Ladies and gentlemen, with this information on the planned investment, I believe that the impetus of the budget for the economic reactivation of Galicia is quite clear. We tripled the government's investment budget. This data I think should lead to a reflection on everyone, because the figures in this budget and its clear orientation towards a productive investment that reacts to the economy I don't think they support certain arguments. In fact, in recent weeks we have been attending a debate in Galicia about the general government budgets. And in this debate, there are some who advocate supporting state budgets that discriminate against Galicia, which reduce investment in our community to levels of fifteen years ago, and with an aggravating: to reduce investment in Galicia the year in which the Central Government has the greatest margin of extraordinary resources in history. And at the same time that they support these budgets in the state that lowers the investment to Galicia, they reject some Greek budgets that raise the expenditure to the highest levels in history to fight against pandemic and economic reactivation. It's not that easy to explain. Others, on the other hand, agree with us that the general government budgets discriminate against Galicia, even at a time when there are more resources. But they are the same ones who supported the investment of the Government of Pedro Sánchez and who said that, in return for that support, there would be a package of measures that would solve all the problems in Galicia. Do you really believe that if the year that grows the state budget the most -- 53% -- and lowers 11% -- investment in Galicia, they will meet when there is a shortage of resources? It does not appear to be the intention of the Central Government, because every time it has occasion it benefits the richest autonomous communities and penalises the ones we have most needs. In fact, the budgetary mechanism of solidarity, which is none other than the Interterritorial Compensation Fund, is in historical minima. In view of this situation, what I can assure you is that since the Greek Government, we will make every effort and all the resources we have at our disposal to compensate for the discrimination of the Government of Pedro Sánchez and mobilize as much investment as possible to revive the economy and help to recover the labour market. Because I repeat that investing is spending on generating wealth and well-being. And, ladies and gentlemen, as I've already made progress, the strength of the Greek accounts for 2021 is that we will combine this important volume of investment with a record of social spending. To have an exceptional budget such as what we are discussing, without any doubt, has to lead us to strengthen the key areas to meet the health, economic and social needs. I am referring, on the one hand, to traditional social expenditure, which includes health, education and social services policies and employment. Since the Greek Government we have applied in the budgets for 2021 an exceptional reinforcement for social spending, bearing in mind that our attention to health, education and social policies has become a regular matter. Already in the accounts approved for 2020, and without a declared pandemic, the largest expenditure in Galicia's history in health care, education and social policy is included. However — I insist — the extraordinary moment in which we live, with more needs than ever before, leads us to further strengthen the social expenditure in these budgets. Thus, in total, taking into account the functional classification of expenditure, next year 2021 there will be €8,540 million for health, education, social policies and employment, or, what is the same, we develop accounts with an increase of EUR 864 million in these policies. This priority of social expenditure and employment is perfectly reflected when looking at the resources allocated to each of the autonomic departments. One of the first things to frame this commitment is that, when we take into account the budgets of the councils with competences in health, education, social policies and employment and we add to them the Second Vice-Presidentship and Economics, Enterprise and Innovation Council, they amount to almost EUR 9 billion — 8.951 in particular, almost EUR 1 billion more than this year. In this way, Health will have at least 4,587 million euros — 478 more than this year — culture, education and university, with at least 2,700 million euros — 167 more —; Social policy, with at least 900 million euros —120 more —; Employment and Equality, with at least 100 million euros more, until the 400. In this newly created department we also strengthen equality policies; in fact, only the General Secretariat of Equality will have an budget of more than 30 million euros, almost twice as much as we had in 2017. And on behalf of the Second Vice-Presidentship and Council of Economics, Enterprise and Innovation, also of new creation, there will be at least EUR 373.5 million — plus €108 — to which we must add another 82 million to Chapter VIII, through the Igape. And as a result of all these figures, there is another data: 4 out of every 5 euro of the budget for 2021 are intended for these priorities. Behind social spending, there are public employees who provide services. In the next budget, we reaffirm our commitment to public servants, and we do so by strengthening as never before Chapter I, the one on staff costs, which exceeds EUR 4,300 million. Yes, we freeze the wages of the Greek Government, and not for the savings that it means — at a certain point too — but, above all, to set an example for families and businesses that are going through very difficult times. We applied the 0.9% increase for public employees and maintained the important sectoral wage agreements, as well as the implementation of professional careers. And what we say we do. Less than a month ago, he told them that we were going to pass the public job offer decree in weeks, and we made it green to the greatest offer of the last 12 years. Now I want to reaffirm again our commitment to approve the public employment offer of 2021 in the first months of next year. We have also taken a decisive step towards, on the one hand, favoring the reconciliation of the family life of public employees and, on the other, moving forward in the digital transition. We signed with the IGC union only ten days ago the first major agreement on the public service of legislation, the one on telework. Galicia is already the first community to adapt its regulation to the recent legislation adopted at the state level. However, not all are good news. In this respect, you will remember that we regret that, when these budgets were presented in committee, I myself informed that at the same time the Public Employment Coordination Commission was being held — which is the forum for participation between autonomous communities and the Central Government — and that at that meeting Galicia had submitted a proposal to amend EBEP to incorporate at the same time the Ministry in relation to temporary staff. And I made a request to my understanding very reasonable and concrete: to include in public employment offers all vacancies occupied by temporary staff without the application of any replacement rate, a solution that we demand virtually all autonomous communities and all trade unions. Well, despite the fact that this measure would enable us to dissipate and overcome temporality in public administrations and put an end to the precarious scholarships that so much concern us all, and that it would be applicable to all successive budget laws, I am sorry that the Central Government rejects it, but we will continue to insist. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating the tallest budgets in history, with the lowest interest expenditure, with the greatest investment volume, with a great boost in social spending and with an add-on, without raising taxes. It's a model that I think is supported by the Greeks. Since 2016 we have approved the biggest tax rebates in Galicia's history, and in these accounts we have made the decision to keep them all by 2021. And let's keep them because in the German Government we are convinced that this is not the time to raise taxes to citizens and businesses. That is why — and as we shall see in the afternoon debate — we have already made progress in rejecting the proposals of the BNG and the PSdeG to raise taxes to the Greeks and to the Greeks. I wouldn't say I'm surprised by your amendments to raise citizens' taxes, because they do so in all budgets, but, with an increase of 14% in non-financial expenditure, with an increase of 53% in investment, do you think it's time to propose taxes? Unfortunately, the central government will raise taxes to the vast majority of the Greeks next year, and not only the rich, as you want to see the central government, because I think that measures such as the tax raising for home or car insurance are not very exclusive of high incomes. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in Galicia we have another model: we have lowered the IRPF to 98.5% of the Greeks, eliminated the inheritance tax among direct heirs to 99.6% of them and year by year we advance in the zero tax strategy in rural areas, to live in rural areas and live in rural areas. With this strategy we facilitate territorial rebalancing, favoring the usual residences in the ZPPs, in addition to betting for the sustainable use of the territory. And what is the result of this fiscal model? They are 463.480 Welsh and Welsh who benefit from inheritance taxes; 320,572 who have received an inheritance from a direct relative who has not paid taxes; 138,791 who have not paid taxes for carrying out a live successor pact and 4,117 who have paid less for an inheritance received from a brother or sister; also 87,503 who have benefited from the zero tax strategy in rural areas and 16,994 who have benefited from tax reductions to support the usual housing comparison. They're, in total, 568,082 the Welsh and the benefited Greeks, not only numbers to make a balance sheet, they're families benefiting from tax reductions that we've been implementing for five years. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the main reason to maintain in 2021 all these tax reductions and benefit for the next year, about 115,000 other families. For all this, the German Government, and I'm sure that the vast majority of the Galicians and the Greeks, doesn't want us to be forced to raise taxes simply because in Catalonia management matters less than independent anxiety. We have the healthy accounts, our tax drop model is good for Galicia and for the Greeks, and we believe we count on their support. And of course we're also going to defend our financial autonomy. I've already told you that the Government of Greece does not give up any way to prevent the reform planned by the Central Government from penalizing the live inheritances in the IRPF. Because only this measure will harm some 30,000 Greek families every year. [[Applause]] And that's not all about tax matters. To deepen the relief of citizens' pockets, we increased tax benefits year by year. And in 2021 we're going to do that, too. And that's why our first spending decision was to increase up to 472 the volume of tax benefits. With what intent? To leave these EUR 472 million in the citizens' pockets and thus favour the domestic economy in particular and the collective in general, through decisions free of charge, both of citizens and of businesses. Ladies and gentlemen, the tallest budgets in history, with the greatest investment volume, with social record expenditure and no taxes, have as a great novelty new instruments to meet the challenges facing the autonomous community. When we set the strategy of budgets, we have always reassessed the impact of the measures launched this year to deal with the pandemic, and with the lessons learned in these months we have redesigned and reinforced measures with a prudent approach, which reserves room for manoeuvre for new disturbances, setting a medium-term orientation for fiscal planning and budgeting. With this intention, we have created a system of funds that facilitates the mobilization of significant volume of resources in priority axes whose execution can accelerate or delay as circumstances evolve, always preserving the functional allocation of resources. And for this we have designed four new instruments: the Covid Fund, the React-EU Fund, the Health Investment Guarantee Fund and the Consensus Fund. Since it couldn't be otherwise, the content of these funds are projects that line up the strategic priorities of the Union in each issue and have specific objectives and indicators. Obviously, this is not yet concrete in the Consensus Fund — as I have explained — but it is reserved to promote investment projects in this Parliament and in the social dialogue and the ideas that the Committee of Economic Experts provides us with. Let's see one at a time every new financial instrument. First of all, we include a covered fund with EUR 503 million, and its importance lies in that it is designed to be the guarantee against the pandemic and to be able to have room for manoeuvre depending on the needs that can be detected. As it seems appropriate, more than half of the total resources — EUR 267 million — will be allocated to health care, 92 to education, 80 to social policy and 13 to tourism — to strengthen their reactivation and help to have the best Xacobeo 21 possible — and we have also planned other parts in the field of culture, sport or emigration. But, ladies and gentlemen, again there are minimal amounts, because for the first time we have a strategic reserve with 33 million euros to have a resource bag that we can use in any need arising from the evolution of the pandemic or that may arise in the future. As a second instrument we included the first annuality of the React-EU Fund, with 430 million euros and two very clear priorities: reactivation and employment. It has five lines of action: employment and equality — with a reserve of EUR 65 million —; strengthening the health system from an economic point of view — EUR 91 million —; digital transition — EUR 62 million —; economic dynamisation, with funds in both Igape and GAIN, and in culture —for EUR 82 million —; and green transition, use of the mountain, quality of water and mobility —with EUR 87 million. As a third financial instrument, we include the Health Infrastructure Guarantee Fund, a fund that is not only designed for the next exercise, but is based on its importance to shield the construction and reform of our large health infrastructures throughout the legislation. This is a multi-year fund that is born with 105 million euros, and with the forecast of the island providing budgeting, the resources needed in each exercise to improve our large hospitals, the comarcal hospitals and the new comprehensive health centres in primary care. And to complete the 430 million of the React-EU funds we programme a fourth financial instrument, which we call "Consensus Fund", with 115 million euros. The importance of this fund is that, for the first time, we reserve in the budget financial support for the investment consensus that you, within the Parliamentary Commission of Economic, Social and Cultural Reactivation through the crisis of coward-19, are able to achieve, and also to include proposals arising from both the social dialogue and the Committee of Economic Experts which has been helping the Government since the beginning of the pandemic. I have already said in committee that the German Government considers it very positive that the parliamentary groups unanimously approve this Committee on Economic Reactivation. And I also believe that the German Government is right with the reservation of these 115 million, because it promotes collaboration with the representatives of citizenship and with civil society. Some of you have criticized the amount of this Consensus Fund, an amount in my understanding of nothing despicable, because it accounts for 1% of the total non-financial expenditure planned for the next exercise. And, in addition, it is the first time that a background of these characteristics is created. In the Bipartite this amount was neither higher nor lower. It didn't exist. But, ladies and gentlemen, the Consensus Fund does not exhaust or limit the vocation of consensus in these budgets. But that, yes, is a concrete expression to assign a part to that collaboration, and it is a good example to put into practice the consensus, because I think we will be more useful to the Greeks if we focus the debate on how to take advantage of those 115 million euros to agree on good investment projects. And I already announce to you that the Government of Greece intends that these agreed investment projects will be realized in the first quarter of 2021. I am convinced that this House's groups will be able to propose good initiatives. We are encouraged to reach agreements in favour of Galicia. Ladies and gentlemen, I would not like to finish my speech without stressing that next year the Xacobeo 2021 will be celebrated, possibly the first major postcovid event in culture and leisure. And although logically this celebration will be conditioned by the evolution of the pandemic, when it takes only ten days to open the Holy Door, it must collaborate in the recovery of sectors such as tourism, such as hospitality or culture, especially affected by the crisis. For the Greek Government, the Xacobeo constitutes an event of singular importance to our community, which takes place 11 years later and that its development will mark a way of organizing great cultural events in the poscovid era and to promote our community as a secure and attractive tourist destination. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic has shown that counting on the best professionals in Galicia, with quality hospital infrastructures and with a good design of public health actions, taking advantage of the resources of primary care, was crucial to having a better comparative result of its impact on our community. With these budgets we want to deepen this strategy. The pandemic has also shown the importance of anticipation in decision-making and measurement design agile to a reality that changes rapidly, not forgetting short- and medium-term programming. With these budgets we want to have this margin to respond to the needs that may arise. It's Galicia we aspire to. The pandemic has also demonstrated the importance of relying on the proposals and recommendations of both experts and economic agents, as well as adding to the effort and promoting consensus. And with these budgets we want to continue to promote dialogue and consensus towards a useful policy, both for people and for workers and for businesses. That's what we intend to dedicate all our efforts to the year 2021. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u11	Thank you, Counselor. Debates and votes on amendments to all the requests for the global refund of budgets or of any section or expenditure manager (Group I)
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u12	We will continue the meeting with the debate and vote on amendments to the whole tabled by the parliamentary groups. First of all, we start with Group I, that is, with the debate and vote on amendments to the whole that demand the global return of budgets or any section or expenditure manager. The debate will be accumulated in accordance with Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure. Amendments have been tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales. For the defence of the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Gonzalo Caballero Miguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. They go ahead, first of all, our first words of this plenary today to make a call to prudence, to everyone's responsibility, to all the risks of infection, to an extensive call to all public administrations, and also to make a call to the health counsellor so that, as a reference to health policies and the fight against the virus, among all of us we squeeze all measures, all guarantees and all protocols and responsibilities so that no one's mistake can make warnings or excessive contact. It's a duty we have and we can't get our guard down. And those who have public representations and responsibilities, we have to be more precise, more responsible and more prudent than ever at times when the release of certain restrictions can put on the table higher levels of risk of infection. Prudence and responsibility of all and of all the highest precision and capacity for action by those who occupy and occupy public responsibilities, this is a matter of country and we cannot lower the guard or commit unwise acts that do not set the best possible example for all citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, we are experiencing the greatest economic crisis you remember. The biggest economic crisis that has been remembered throughout our country since the time of the Civil War, with a drop in production in all European countries, in Spain and here in Galicia around 10 per cent for this year. Tell the advisor an estimated drop of 9.7% of GDP by 2020, and also point to an increase of 8% by 2021. We know that these are intervals or figures that are within possible intervals, but we also know that there are reports still from some of the most accurate economic estimation centres that have just collected that the GDP of the Greek economy will be contracted at 11% this year and that in 2021 we can aspire to have a 6% recovery — two points less than the Government estimates — in the year 2021. In any case, we know how complex it is to make estimates at times when the evolution of the pandemic involves a risk and a level of uncertainty that makes all economic forecasts need to be put on notice and study. But, ladies and gentlemen, the biggest economic crisis needs the greatest public action. The biggest economic crisis needs a Greek Government to accompany the country's economy. And the Greeks and the Greeks that are following us today in this budgetary debate feel the cold that generates a Government of the Galician Union that has not protected people. And when I hear the speech of the councillor at Fairy today, our concern is growing, because we're still in the policy of presenting the accounts on the part of an accountant from the German Government, but we lack a country project and we lack the ability to protect people with the policies on the right, to fight inequality, and we lack, with the policies on the right, a leaf for reactivation that supports productive tissue. These budgets that you present, gentlemen of the People's Party, are budgets that have a higher level of expenditure. They have the highest level of expenditure you've ever managed and what you've seen in other budgets of the Galician Union. These budgets have a high level of expenditure because there are more than 1,100 million extraordinary ones coming to the budgets of the Galician Union sent from the state, from the progressive government of Spain, through the European funds and the funds of the Government of Spain. It is progressive policy, anticyclical policy, keynesian policy of the Government of Spain which inflates the possibility of increasing public spending in the Council of Galicia accounts. And so when I find today a Government of Galicia presenting these budgets, what I see is a Government of Galicia that is presenting a whole amendment to all the budgets that you have managed since the previous economic crisis. Everything you've done today is a whole amendment, because you recognize the disability, the failure to act, the error of all the economic policies that have been implemented in the country since 2008, when you had to manage the previous crisis. [[Applause]] But even though the counselor's words are still present, the adjusted speech, the neoliberal speech, the clipping speech. Even that idea — that you still believe it is necessary — is underlying your political discourse. When you highlight the importance of controlling any kind of public expenditure, when you want to put on medals for any kind of fight against indebtedness, when you do alarm and if you put on medals for making so many cuts in a decade, they still acknowledge that economic policy does not understand anything, that they have been wrong in all management of Galicia's economic policy in the 2008 crisis and that they are now faced with the possibility of spending 1,500 million euros more because there is a progressive government in Spain that does not want to leave anyone behind, that defends policies of progress, that defends policies to support the welfare state, to public services, to give the economy the possibility of consumption, investment possibility, and possibility of demand across the state. But you refuse the state, because you're still in accounting policy. In eleven years' rule of the People's Party in Galicia and Mr Feijóo there has never been economic politics. And they waste a historic opportunity again to, with the biggest budgets that the Galician Union can have, make a program of reactivation, recovery, impulse, that leaves no one behind. You forget about people. [[Applause]] Do you think, Counselor, that today the self-employed, the small businesses, the hospitality business, are more calm after their intervention? Do you think the long-term unemployed or the young people who don't have a job are calmer after their intervention? Do you believe that those who defend public services, health and public education in the country can be more relaxed after their intervention, when what they're telling us is that they have to spend more because they need a new economic policy, a new consensus in Europe and Spain that you don't like, but they have no roadmap or project to know what to spend on? Making economic policy is much more than making an accounting document in budgets, it's knowing what to spend, how to spend, how to reactivate the economy. They weren't able to boost the country's economy in eleven years in which you ruled Galicia, in the eleven years in which, while Spain generated 670,000 more jobs, in Galicia you lost 70,000 jobs in the occupied population — in the years of government in which the most jobs were created in Spain. That's the big situation and the serious situation that you leave us. It's a whole amendment to the budgets of all previous years. The same ones who defended the adjustments, the same ones who defended the cuts, the same ones who didn't want to use public spending to reactivate the economy, have to make a radical turn in five weeks to present a completely different budget, which is the amendment to all the economic policies of the People's Party in Galicia since Feijóo arrived. Today you're suspending yourself. [[Applause]] And of course we believe that these impulse policies must be made, when you talk about mistrusting taxes, progressive taxes to charge millions who can contribute to a fairer outcome; when you distrust the Government of Spain, which applies anticyclical policies, the Keynesian policies -- the government that fought in Europe for having a Marshall Plan, a new Marshall Plan that sheds more expense -- and, of course, what Mr. Casado did is there for the years of history, he is there for his irresponsibility in critical moments of this negotiation. [[Applause]] You don't have a country project, and that's why we're worried about it. Because, beyond being accountable, what we need is a government committed to the country, which has a proper diagnosis of what the country's reality is like, that knows where it wants to take the country and that it takes the measures necessary not to waste the historic opportunity of having higher budgets and higher expenditure. Counselor, neither dialogue nor agreement have desired. Over the more than a hundred days of this legislation of Mr Feijóo, the Socialist Parliamentary Group has not received a single call from the President of the Galician Union to speak of the reactivation and recovery, to reach agreements on how to steer these budgets. Because if you — who are not in favour of the Union, the State, are in favour of economic reactivation, of supporting the fight against inequality, of protecting people — are unable to manage budgets of this dimension, we are willing to hold our hand to cooperate in reaching national agreements. But there was not even the slightest will of the People's Party, which always makes this great speech of trying to pose it over any other debate. There wasn't the slightest attempt to reach an agreement to get ahead, to deal with this crisis. And they're back on PSdEG-PSOE's tendon hand. We need to know which Galicia we live in. And Galicia in which we live is a Galicia that is deeply concerned by this crisis, the biggest economic crisis and with a huge risk of social inequality, an economic crisis that we have reached with the social services weakened in broad areas, from primary care to older residences; a wide economic crisis in which the complex situation of the Greek economy to generate jobs is faced by a government that has no commitment to employment, that has not been able to generate employment and increase the population occupied in years of recovery, and that now, when the joint studies and all the technical reports that exist talk about the possibility that between 2020 and 2021 will be lost to around 20,000 jobs in the Galician economy, you will continue to give no answer. Today, the Government of the United States has just presented an accounting plan, but it has no project for the country, no initiative, no commitment, no ambition. He doesn't know what the country's reality is today and he lacks a roadmap to advance towards the next few years. With you in the Galician Union, we are in a position to lose a historic possibility for recovery and we do not want to lose it. We don't want to lose it because Galicia deserves something better, that Galicia where we live, which is a Galicia that loses population, a Galicia without the ability to generate jobs, a Galicia that loses weight in the industrial sector, a Galicia where the rural environment and the inner Galicia is becoming increasingly impoverished, a Galicia where the levels of R+D+i are in line and you've cut them off, a Galicia where you've also involved enormous cuts in health policy, in education policy, in cultural policy, a Galicia where you win choices but leave the Greeks in a worse situation. And they do so, Counsellor, because they lack the ability to understand that the Council of Galicia has broad powers, according to the Statute, to relaunch the country, to bet on a green Galicia. It's a Galicia that has to have, in the challenges of the ecological transition, a better future. And for eleven years you've forgotten the ecological transition, the climate change, the sustainable development, the commitment to our country, to our natural heritage. You have also forgotten that Galicia is an entrepreneur, dynamic, modernisation, that Galicia is betting to increase the levels of innovation and R & D+i and that Galicia needs the industrial commitment of digitisation, the commitment to productive tissue, of course they have forgotten! These budgets are a missed opportunity that devastates the German Government. And it's a missed opportunity because they lack that project and that vision that we're so concerned about. And on the income side and on the expenditure side, lack of momentum for the country, lack of commitment, lack of measures, lack of orientation. Because you're suspicious of everything the audience is and now you come up with bigger numbers that you don't know how to manage. I know that Mr. Feijóo is undeployed when he has to budget and distribute more than 1,500 million euros in public spending when the only thing he did in eleven years was to make a catechism of cuts, of extreme defense of austerity, of defense of adjustments without understanding that the impulse of public spending in such a massive crisis is fundamental to relaunching the country, that without state we have left the people, that without public spending, we have neither pushed the consumption nor pushed the investment nor pushed the demand, that without project for the country there is no way of recovery and reactivation to prevent the closure of businesses, to prevent the autonomous from leaving without the possibility of business, to prevent so many workers from going to the streets. And you're suspicious, you're suspicious of everything that guarantees people with progressive economic policies. And that's why you come here today to give a speech against the Government of Spain, which is the government that drives the general government's budgets and drives the budgets of the Union. And we don't have any complex. [[Applause]] I understand that there can be many demagogic positions that mean that there is discriminatory treatment in Galicia. False, false! And it seems to me irresponsible, Counselor, that the Government of Galicia is standing behind a sign saying "Spain steals us." It's an irresponsibility of Mr. Feijó's People's Party, when the numbers don't believe any of these realities. Or do you not want to acknowledge here that the greatest possibility of investment and spending of budgets in Galicia is given because there are more than 1,500 million arriving because 1,100 million are coming from the state through European funds and from the state itself? You're going to be able to use more expansive budgets because you're getting gas sent by a progressive government in Spain. If married, Aznar or Feijóo were ruled in Spain, they would be cutting off on public spending, putting people in a situation of difficulty. And you would be complicit in that situation. [[Applause]] And that policy of spending and impulse is seen in so many decisions...! Today it is not the debate of the general budgets of the State, but of course we want to point out that, in view of the speech that we want to make in the part of territorialized investments of the general budgets of the State, the Government of Spain spends more by Greek than by Catalan, Andalusian, Madrid or Valencian. It costs EUR 308 per Greek against the average of Spain — EUR 258 —. Why don't you recognize the numbers? Because the numbers are the accounts and their sound stories, the stories of those who don't want to recognize that a progressive government comes up with the pensions, when you, with your last budgets in Spain, wanted to freeze the pensions to eight hundred thousand pensioners and they sent a letter home to the Greek pensioners telling them that no pension was paid. Why don't you recognize that there's a government in Spain that's working alongside people and that you're still anchored in free confrontation and baladi just to apply zero-priority cutting measures? And they fail, because it's just State spending that will allow the health advisor to have more money to manage health, that the social policy advisor might have more or that the economic advisor and vice-president might have a chance to reactivate the economy from the public domain. But you have no commitment to income. And of course we say it, of course we say it! In a crisis of as great a size as it is not remembered in the history of our country, millionaires can put an extra, something reasonable, through progressive taxes to achieve a fairer outcome. Because in your speech cynicism you say, "We're getting the funds, we're spending more." [[Applause]] But where's the income to get them? In the Government of Spain, in the European Union, which makes progressive policies. And you can reasonably apply cuts continuously, but we're not going to be behind that flag. Because you have unraveled, through reforms, progress that there was. The latest wealth tax reform, which is a way to bring down millions of people in Galicia to their contribution to public accounts, because it was a mistake. And we don't support him then and we don't support him now. We believe that different things can be done and that those citizens who have millions of euros in wealth, or who have very large income incomes — some 80,000, 100,000 euros — can contribute to progressive rates more solidarity at the end of the greatest crisis. Because if we don't have funds, we don't have to protect so many millions of people in Spain and hundreds of thousands in Galicia who are at risk of poverty. And after these numbers, we have the reality of a Galician who is very concerned, of many citizens in a state of unemployment, of many children and children who have difficulty in being able to have a decent livelihood, who need the public, the school dining room, the support of incomes. In order for no one to stay in the ballot box, we need to open up from Galicia's board the largest defence project for people in this legislature. And you suspend. And that's why we hold hands and tell them all these days that we're willing not to follow this line to be able to contribute if you hold hands to the Socialist Party in Galicia, which is the party that defends people, makes the policies of progress, the party that counts with people and is not based on those policies. Because it's possible to protect people, defend the welfare state, fight inequality and revive the economy. [[Applause]] The spending priorities have to explain why, when the budgets of the Board rise to a total of 13% or 14%, you rise to a smaller dimension in health spending, because the spending on education is lower in size, because the expenditure on social policy is lower in size, why you lead us to a distribution of the budgets of the Board in which so important areas lose relative weight. You also have to explain to us why games like rural population fixation are going down, why youth is going down, why you don't have a commitment to rural environment and industry. What is the industrial project behind these budgets? What is the game of budgets you're dedicated to boosting and modernizing industry in Galicia? What projects? With what goals? What means? I would also like to ask you, Counsellor, if you believe that, when the Government of Spain refers more than 1,100 million euros to the Council of Galicia, it is reasonable for you to cut the local cooperation funds that are distributed among the municipalities. Do you think it is loyal that when Galician councils are taking on competences that you are unable to fulfil — even though you have statutory competences — you, in the greatest crisis, reduce their funds? So we, in our approach, want to ask them to rectify it. We want to ask them to rectify to increase public health spending, in part of at least EUR 100 million more; increase education expenditure by EUR 80 million more; that in social policy, to be able to support people with greater difficulty, to cover the home aid service, to provide support to non-contributory pensioners, you increase your allocation by EUR 50 million. In addition, you can strengthen the costs of accommodation and autonomous spending with a minimum of 60 million euros more. And for that, you have to cut in unproductive expenditure, you have to cut in advertising, you have to cut in potential staff and you have to trust counsellors, you have to cut in unnecessary expenditure that is not intended for reactivation. And in addition, we also ask them, for loyalty to the Town Councils, to withdraw their proposal of cuts to the Town Councils of Galicia. It's an attack on municipalism, a knife to the municipalities of Galicia, which, when the state gives the Council of Galicia 1,100 million euros more, you reduce the game they send to the municipalities of Galicia. And our approach is different, there's margin to dedicate 100 million euros to an additional fund for the municipalities of Galicia. You have it in our proposal, with numbers well calculated with a country project behind you. And for that, we have to rectify it. We have to adjust because their budgets are scarce in the area of equality and we want more. We want to develop all possibilities, for example, to develop information centres for women in all districts of Galicia; to increase and duplicate these youth funds that you cut — with youth as affected by the crisis as many as others — and also to establish small but symbolic games, because a symbolic game — of not great silence — in democratic memory would also give a symptom that when you want to manage Meirás's palace you have a commitment to the democratic memory and not a speech that does not lead to nowhere. [[Applause]] If we talk about all of this, we also have to understand, Mr Counsellor, that on the European projects page the Government of the United States is without direction. It has introduced seven European projects to present 108 European projects, 108 projects that nobody knows in this Parliamentary House, which does not know them by the expert committee that advises the Galician Union, who does not know them by economic and social agents, by trade unions or employers, who simply knows them by Mr Feijóo, who has put them in a drawer, because there is no roadmap or possibility of recovery. The problem, Counselor, is not the State, the problem is the Government of Galicia. Management problems are endogenous to the policies of the People's Party, they are not exogenous and derived from the actions of a government in Spain that has progressive commitments and that applies anticyclical policies that you commit to gossip without knowing how to manage them. Because I'm the opposite of what you've been praying for since the previous crisis and applying Galicia. I mean, Counsellor, that Galicia needs some budgets for reactivation, and that these budgets are not credible. They're not as credible as the many issues you pose, as when you in the newspapers, through your publicity, you present accounts that don't even fit in. Because it's important to stop counting scams, falsehoods, to the whole of the population of Galicia. You say you spend 17 million euros in help at the hostel. And if we calculate, depending on the number of lodgers, what happens to each of these 17 million euros, we find that the result is a payment of around 900 euros. That's all you guys do. It's the government that less supported the productive tissue since the first wave of the pandemic. Throughout the first wave of the pandemic, they didn't give a single direct help to support the country's productive tissue. And yet in the second wave of the pandemic are now the small merchants, the self-sufficient, the hostess, waiting for income that you don't make in your accounts. They're counting stories, but not realities, and I'm not surprised, because I want to remind you today in this parliamentary chamber that the great stellar measure that presented the Government of the Union in the first wave of the pandemic was that I had an agreement with the financial institutions in order to be able to postpone the payment of the ERTEs. The Government of Spain spent over 200 million euros in a month to support the ERTEs in Galicia and you all did, a thousand of these workers and workers, forwarding 15 days with that ERTE receipt in their payrolls. It was the biggest policy because I'm the biggest fiasco in supporting the productive fabric. [[Applause]] Counselor, I'll hold your hand again. If you correct, you have the tendon hand of the PSdeG not to go ahead with this whole amendment, to withdraw it, to reach an agreement or even to absolve us today in the vote. It provides the health of more funds, provides social policies with more funds, provides public education with more funds, equips housing and the productive fabric with an action plan and succeeds in reactivation policies. It makes up an extraordinary fund of EUR 100 million — which is basically EUR millions devoted to education, health and social policies — so that the municipalities can have financial aid that you take away from them. Counsellor, these budgets are as incredible as Mr. Feijóo and Mr. Marry without masking speaking of sentience and prudence in front of the population of Galicia. That's the credibility of the People's Party, but it's not the budgets that the Greeks and the Greeks are waiting for. [[Applause]] At the moment of the biggest crisis, we've just heard an accounting speech that has no country project, which has no roadmap, which has no orientation, which has no ambition and has no content. You know how to make accounting documents but you can't make economic politics or make budgets. You don't have the ability to manage a crisis of this magnitude, closed within the People's Party, installed on the knee of most parliamentarians, without opening up the mind and head of what's going on in the world, what's going on in Spain and what's going on in Galicia: a new model of economic policy and a new paradigm to defend people, to defend so many citizens who are going on so badly, who see every month that their difficulties are deeper, that the chances of maintaining employment or finding jobs are more difficult and more complex, as well as meeting so many companies who continue to ask for help and that Junta does not assist them. There are small and medium-sized traders, pemes, autonomous, large companies, who already know that, when the Galician Union asked them for ideas to work for the next generation's funds, they were talking to an interlocutor who had neither proposals nor direction and who, therefore, already mistrusted — even when they were in those 108 projects that you presented — that they were on that list for something. That's why Mr. Feijó hid it and didn't move it. Either we strengthen the health system with a powerful tracking system that allows us to tell where the traceability of the virus is, or we strengthen primary health care, or we strengthen the public health set or we fail. And of course there are more funds, but you have to know how to handle them. And of course there are more funds for social policies, but they don't know how to guide a recovery with greater equality and a struggle against inequality. And, above all, because the country's economy needs the support of the Union, we ask them to correct it. Counsellor, Vice President of the Economy, you have a difficult position to manage the crisis of the greatest extent. This is a crisis of enormous silence in which we all have to contribute, and all the knowledge we have can be insufficient and susceptible to changes in times of resilience. Either we're all right or we're all wrong. We hope that these budgets and the recovery project for Galicia will be a success for the country. But we also see the lack of guidance and direction, as in this intervention today there was not a single strategic line for reactivation, for the defense of people and for the fight against inequality. There were accounting numbers but there was no economic policy. There were accounts, but there was no impulse. There was propaganda, but there was no compromise.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u14	You have to go through with it, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u15	And Galician citizens are waiting for engagement. They expect public policies to protect people. And in that challenge, if rectified, they'll have the tendon hand of the PSdEG-PSOE as soon as they want. If even today they want to take a step by the way that is a step forward, the PSdeg will be willing to accompany them from that moment on and not go ahead with a whole amendment, which we have to submit for responsibility, because these budgets lose millions of euros of possibilities for the country. You know, like most of them, they will have budgets, but they have despised dialogue and agreement. However, they have their hands stretched to re-enact the economy at a time when people are asking us for it is right and less trouble for them. On that line we hope to succeed. And you contain, in any case, if you keep up with this budget project...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u16	Thank you, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u17	... with PSdEG's willingness to work for a better Galicia. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Knight. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] To defend the amendment to the whole tabled by the Galego Nationalist Block, which calls for the global return of budgets, Mrs. Pontón Mondelo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u19	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Counsellor, allow me, firstly, that my first words should be to wish you an early recovery to the Fishery Counsellor, hoping that this virus does not have a major impact on your health, and also a prompt recovery to all the people we know today are fighting against the virus in the whole country. Certainly, we are living an exceptional moment in which people's lives and health must remain the priority. And the truth is, it's important that we don't lower the guard, that we stretch the precautions, because it's true that we're still at a very delicate moment in the fight against the pandemic. In that sense, from the BNG we want to continue to make this call to extreme caution and to say also, with all clarity, that we find nothing edifying the images that we saw from this meeting between the President of the Union and the President of the People's Party, Mr. Pablo Casado, with militants and senior positions of the People's Party walking without a mask to make a photographic pose for the media. We think this is a very serious matter that must be clarified, because what can't be called the little sentinel, as Mr. Feijóo does, then make photographic inn with Mr. Married without keeping the distance of security and without mask. This is a whole display of irresponsibility, when the citizen is being asked to strive to comply with the rules because there is a lot at stake. Of course, what can't be done is to appeal to individual responsibility and then give a display of irresponsibility; you can't disown the boys and girls -- as Mr. Feijóo did -- you can't disown the citizenry and then do the opposite of what's being demanded of them every day. [[Applause]] We are, ladies and gentlemen, three days after the celebration of Christmas, asking families to make a great effort to give up being able to celebrate it together, then, besides, a year so hard, and at the same time, what can't be seen is the images of the president of the board with his head of lines, Mr. Pablo Casado, without mask and without respect for the distance of security. I think we can all be wrong, but when we do something like this and if you commit this irresponsibleness, the least is to recognize it and apologize to the citizen. It's the least you can demand. Because yes, ladies and gentlemen, we are living an exceptional moment that requires an exceptional effort of all. And the question we're asking ourselves, the question that citizenship is asking is whether these budgets that the People's Party is presenting today are responding to these exceptional challenges that are leaving us in hiding. We were asked if the sectors and the workers who are most suffering from this crisis were rescued, if they reverted to a decade of cuts that put the ropes into public health, if they really bet on changing a model that is doing business with our elders, or if they were designing a new economic policy that would bet on boosting Galicia's enormous capacity, which would allow us to get out of this crisis. And you can believe me, Counselor, that I would like the answer to this question to be yes, that these budgets really respond to the challenges that the Greek society has. Because, honestly - and I say it with total sincerity - I think it's more important than ever that governments are right. But what we see is that these budgets are again collapsing with the same stone, the routine stone, the propagating stone, and giving them a port to the transformations that Galicia needs. That's why we said it would be a missed opportunity at a time when we needed more than ever to get the governments right. But what we see is that they are the usual routine and propaganda. It's just amazing that even in the middle of a pandemic, the headlines that have been repeating us over the last few years, and I'm going to set a small example for them, just taking the titles from the board. It's year after year! It looks like there's a pandemic that doesn't, that you come here without blushing with the same headlines. Take a look, Counselor. 2017 budgets, what did Junta tell us? Title: "The Board approves a 2017 budget of EUR 9 billion with a view to strengthening social expenditure". 2018: "The Board approves an 2018 budget of 2,487 million, the highest since 2010, which will strengthen job creation and social spending." 2019 Budgets: "The 2019 Budgets of the Board have 9.800 million to boost growth, with a boost in social spending and with more investments." 2021 Budgets: "The Board approves the highest budgets in its history, with more than 8.500 million destined for social expenditure, and the greatest investment in history." Indeed, Counsellor, who is a little afraid to see how you come here, year after year, repeat the same headlines to us and who are able to do so in the year in which we are experiencing the worst economic, social and health crisis in the last decade. This country, the people of this country, deserves something more than headlines and more headlines, the same tran, they always do. [[Applause]] Because, look, the only history of these budgets is that they repeat the same story as ever. I believe that propaganda as a form of government is always critical, but it is unforgivable in the midst of the greatest economic, social and health crisis of this century. It seems to us, of course, unforgivable, because we need governments that are right, and Junta is not right when it makes demagogy or tax gifts like what you did here, Mr. Counsellor, because we are asking the Greeks and the Greeks who have the lowest incomes, we lower their taxes, and those who can bring more than they do right now. That's what we're asking. We are asking, for example, that the large commercial areas, which are making money right now, can contribute so that we can help the small and medium-sized trade, which is suffocated in our country. That's what we're asking for in our amendments. [[Applause]] Of course, if you were concerned about Galicia's future, you wouldn't come here bragging about making tax gifts to higher incomes, depriving us of resources that are fundamental to being able to cope with the crisis. Because, if an analysis of where budgets come from, what we're looking at is that in that increase in resources, not a single euro of increase, comes from an effort being made by the Galician Union for having more investment to be able to cope with the economic crisis. Indeed, it is extraordinary funds that have been allocated in the state and in the European Union by cowardice, because, if not, we would now be in very similar budgets as in 2020. Of course, you're not right when you're inflating the expectations that generate these budgets, because I think we're in a moment of uncertainty about what you need to have your feet on earth and realism. And if we really look at it, given what inflation in recent years is, what we see is that these budgets aren't as extraordinary as you wanted to sell it to the citizen. We're not facing investments we've never seen. In fact, if we take inflation into account, we see that these budgets are less than they were expected twelve years ago. And so there's a fact that we should worry about, because it's clear -- that today they don't question it anymore, despite the ideology that has been professing to us and defending us all this time -- that it's very important for public investment to be able to get out of this crisis, but when we see what weight the budget will have in the Union in the gross domestic product of Galicia, here we also see how there's a lower influence of public budget. In 2009, the weight of the budget on the Greek economy represented around 20% of GDP, and in 2021, according to these forecasts, will be 18% of GDP. In any case, what we're concerned about is that we also see how in the accounts you present to us here, there's a lack of defense of Galicia's interests. You get 430 million euros from the React Fund, which is less than the population weight our country has. They should be joining the BNG claim so that there really is an effective territorialization of those funds that doesn't make us lose. That's what the German Government should be doing right now. [[Applause]] In any case, beyond the global figures, I think it's important to see that these resources are being allocated and it's important to reflect on the lessons that are leaving us as difficult a moment as this "was hideous." And there's a first reflection in which I think that, in theory, we're all in agreement, then another thing is to see how it actually actually looks. Today there is an immense majority of the Greek society that is aware that it is essential that we have powerful public services and an armored public health of cuts and privatizations. But this, surely, said so, we all would sign, then we see that it's not a lesson that the People's Party extracts and moves on to the counts of the Galician Union. Because, what do these health budgets give us? For first of all, the relative weight of public health is low in the budget; it means 33.8 % of the budget means 33.5%. We also see as primary care, which is fundamental in the fight against the pandemic - and we are seeing how the cuts are affecting, because professionals are exhausted and not equipped with enough resources - today it has 45 million euros less than twelve years ago - 45 million euros less! - with an accumulated cut of more than 2,000 million euros. In this account, too, we have seen the nonsense of the privatization of health that you have brought forward, and we see it, for example, in the case of the Vigo hospital, where we are going to pay, between cannon and indebtedness, 108 million euros. We're going to pay 80 million more for the Povervisa hospital as well. That is, only in the Vigo area, these public health budgets, are allocated 200 million euros to companies that do health business. We also see that we are not dealing with a question that worries very much about citizenship, because we have to take care of the cowardice, but people are still getting sick and there are serious health problems that are not being dealt with. We have some waiting lists that come up and we have diagnostic problems, because we know there are many diseases that are being treated badly, and that's a health problem, but we don't see that there's a special plan to really definate health and recover lost time, which is the health of the Greeks and the Greeks right now. We're also concerned about mental health, because even today we've seen a news story in a newspaper that told us that there's an increasing demand in the field of mental health in minors and adolescents. And this budget, what do you expect? One million euros for that Poscovid Mental Health Care Plan that we were announced. It's just that, Counsellor, this isn't going to be a four-year plan; at this rate it's going to be a eight-year plan, and mental health cannot continue to be the great forgetfulness of our health system. [[Applause]] And last of all, we don't see that the applause - that you, even here, were appropriate to them - that the citizenship gave health professionals is reflected in these budgets, because we continue to have a precarious health system, and we believe it is necessary to dignify the working conditions, because that means to dignify health and care for the people who saved our lives in this pandemic. And we don't see any solutions there either. [[Applause]] The second big lesson we have left behind is the enormous failure and the enormous problem of considering a business to care for older people. We repeat it here again: someone has to explain how it's possible that 22,000 people who are in residences concentrate almost half of the deaths per coward. And I hope they don't repeat that argument again -- which is bohornoso -- to compare the deaths in residences with the average, because the deaths of our seniors are not an average, and they need an answer. You've already refused to investigate what happened in the residences, but it's just that these budgets are now coming and it's a second beating, because you're also refusing to set in motion a new model of care for older people who aren't exactly based on the business. Now, the only proposal in this area is that seven residences will be built; seven residences that the president of the board had promised for the last seven years. [[Applause]] What's the reality? They're not going to be built by the Galician Union, they're going to be built by a private employer's prayer. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is a central element of the debate, because what can't be that attention to our greatest depends on charity, because it has to be a guaranteed right with public resources that have to be in budgets. [[Applause]] It's something we have to change. The third big lesson in the vault is that we need an economy that produces. Yes, yes, what's not worth is that model, which looks cheap, but that comes out very expensive: that produces China. And we can't go on with that idea of an economy that is dependent on tourism, when it seems that increasing the weight of tourism is the big bet this government is making. We say that this is not the model of the future, that what is needed is to produce, that you have to transform the primary sectors, by betting on their industrialization, that you have to bet on talent, ICT, innovation, research, the green economy, not as a label to cover the climate change factory that you want to put in place, or to put more eucalyptus in our country, but really, to bet on a real transformation in that area, because that's going to be the future, and, or we're there, or Galicia is going to stay behind, and it's something we can't let happen for the second time. We can't afford to lose the train, not the reactivation, but the great transformations our country needs. And besides, we have potential; it's that Galicia has a huge capacity to get out of the crisis. What is needed is a government that trusts the country, that creates in our productive sectors, that creates in the people here, that we have to bring out. Because it's good to export talent, what we have to do is import it, and we can, if we have the capacity, if we really change the model. [[Applause]] But what do we see here? Well, because you're still installed in that idea that they do everything fantastic and that there's no problem. Paraphrasing that French writer, André Blanc, they use statistics like drunks, more to support themselves than to light up; and we need to light up, not support ourselves in the lighthouses. Today the Government repeats that idea again, the advisor made it: in Galicia the crisis is less intense than in the state, and that means that the Government does everything very well. But this -- you know perfectly well -- is a reality that has already happened in 2008 and that has happened in all the crises in Galicia. They come here later, but then they're more intense and it takes us longer to recover, and this is a problem, of course, very serious. Because, in addition, if we see what happened in 2008, what happened was that Galicia did not recover. We had a crisis and didn't even recover the job ten years ago. We have a demographic crisis and you don't even change after more than 200,000 people have emigrated from our country in the last decade. And they're not worried that we have a more precarious job and that we already have in our country poor workers, something that they're reporting to all the entities and the Foesa Report -- and I'm not going to repeat the data they give us -- We're also seeing how their model of growth—that's what they tell us it's a healthy growth—is a growth in inequality among people, because it's curious how Galicia has an evolution between the incomes of work and the capital that is not given throughout the Spanish state. Now here they already have more weight on the incomes of capital than on the incomes of labor. This is a portrait of what society is creating from the People's Party. But we also have a problem because, in fact, there is an increasing precariousness that affects especially women and young people in this country. And you don't worry about this, and it's not just not that you don't worry about it, it's that when we analyze how resources are invested -- not how they say they're going to invest, but how they're going to invest -- what we see is the big failure of the People's Party, which is not so much able to execute budgets in those areas that are central to job creation. I'm not going to pick up the data from the year 2020 at the level of budget execution because they're incomplete and, in addition, this is an exceptional year, but we're going to see what happened in the year 2019. What do we see? We see that they have left almost three out of every ten euros for real investment unimplemented. We also see as advisors such as the Environment and Planning of the Territory, that of Economics, Employment and Industry, that of the Sea or of the Rural Environment are the ones that systematically - but also the previous ones - have the lowest level of execution, although they are fundamental to job creation. And I also say there it's bloody to see what happens at the Sea Council, which doesn't run nearly 56% of its funds. Or what happens in jobs councils, which has a very low level of execution. In 2019 — not 2020 — there is data that are demolition for any government: vocational training for the unemployed, only executed 4.30%; soil promotion, only executed 18.89%; improved fisheries production, only executed 41%; improved agri-food production, only 46.26%; employment promotion, 68%. It's just that they're some numbers that should be ashamed of them, when we have thousands of Welsh people who have to emigrate because of lack of opportunity in this country. A government that does not execute resources in the most important areas is not allowed. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] But this is also outrageous in other areas which are central, because, for example, we can talk about research. Of course, today we're all looking hopefully at what the vaccine means to be able to cope with cowardice, but it's just that behind that vaccine there are countries that have a strategic vision and made the bet by knowledge, by science, by universities or by education a central element of their model of society. And we here, in Galicia, what we see is like in the crisis, while other countries have wagered for research, you've wagered for cuts, and not just for cuts, because, above all, what they put on paper is that they didn't even invest it. Here we have the German Research Plan, for example, where they have been left unimplemented in the last year nearly 3 out of 10 euros, or you count and divert funds from that plan to build buildings in the City of Culture. And there's a part of the problem that's not going to be solved so much that they draw figures on a paper that then doesn't materialize in reality. At this point, I too would like to reply, Counselor, to something I've seen here that is always manipulating, which is the subject of debt. It's just, yeah, it's flipping! 'I'm sorry to tell you.' If there is less interest in the payment of debt, I think it is not a merit of the Greek Government; I think that something should have to do with the policy of the European Central Bank — I don't know — may be wrong. In any case, it would be good if we were to have transferred the debt data to this Parliament, because we want to know who owes it, what interests it pays and whether it is being renegotiated. But that data does not send us to Parliament -- like everything else, that's the respect you have for democracy. And when we go to the numbers, what we see is that what you did was you owe Galicia to a historical figure. It's just that Galicia has never been so indebted! They tripled the debt of this country! And it doesn't seem to us that debt itself is a critical element, because you owe yourself to improve your health, so there's work, to improve your health, but the question we're asking is, how can you triple your public debt and at the same time dismantle your health, reduce your education, or you're not betting on any model in the field of economic development? Why do you owe Galicia? And please stop lying to people! Because when they arrived at the Galician Union in 2009, there were 4,859 million euros of public debt and today there are 14,515. It's just as simple as that. [[Applause]] Stop telling people that they've dropped their debt! And by the way, there were moments when they had to use that debt to pay off current expenses, and you know it's exactly the same as me. [[Applause]] Indeed, right now we are at a time when we have to do something important. I am convinced that today we should not face this debate, neither now nor throughout its processing, with the same routine as you present here, because we are at a difficult time for the people of this country and it is important that the public accounts be the best possible. I'm sure that can be done. Even though it seems to me that these resources are insufficient, we have to make politics with the resources we have. And we also want to say that there are other possible budgets, that it is possible to rescue people who are most suffering from the crisis right now, which is the hospitality, trade, the culture sector and the workers and the workers who are unemployed. That's why we say: we mobilise EUR 125 million more for these sectors and that there really is a help at a decisive time. We also believe, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen, that it is possible to return a little of what we have been given to health professionals during this pandemic. And how? For we propose a strategy to eliminate precariousness, strengthening primary care with 250 million euros more, with a plan that will allow our country's health to be decoupled to meet all the needs in this area. We also believe that it is possible to put in place a new model of care so that our seniors will never become a business again. And for that we believe that a new model needs to be crafted, that we need to strengthen and dignify the Home Help Service workers or that at a time like this it is important to help people who have less, and specifically, we talk about 38,000 people who are receiving non-contributory pensions in our country. The autonomic supplement has been frozen for ten years, and we say, let's put a $1,000 help on the table right now so hard to get a hand to those who have less. We also believe that it is possible to raise Galicia in this economic crisis by putting in place a new model in this field and, look, for that, the first thing is that the job we have cannot fall. We say in our amendments that public intervention to save Alcoa workers is already being put on the table. Every minute we lose is a minute that goes against us. [[Applause]] We also understand that it is essential to take advantage of and root here all the talent and wealth we have in the country. How? Well, through a Greek pact for science and innovation, putting Innogal in place. It's just that we have Icrea and Ikerbasque, which are examples of how to capture and retain talent. We also believe that we need to transform the Igape, at a time when companies have exceptional needs, and give them more power, and that we have to make a real bet for digitization, for the circular economy, for transforming our primary sectors or for actually betting for knowledge, strengthening teaching in all its fields. It is essential that we also bring here the debate that Galicia needs these budgets to reflect the feminist agenda. And for that, we insist: the Greek Covenant against gender-based violence. We set aside 1% of these budgets to end with violence that every day strikes, kills and kills. [[Applause]] And let us work, ladies and gentlemen, to really end these language policies, to end this repeated policy that we see on the part of the People's Party, which instead of feeling proud to have one's own language and to defend it in all areas, we again see these budgets as what it does is to lose an opportunity and abuse our country's own language. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we have a chance to do things differently. [[Applause]] I also want to tell you that today I had not planned to talk about the general budgets of the state, but it seems that the People's Party needs, in the face of such bad budgets, to bring other debates here. I'd tell the counselor that, at last, I don't know if you've just discovered discrimination with Galicia; I don't know, they must have fallen off the horse on the way to Damascus, it's okay. It's good that they find out that there's discrimination with Galicia, the problem is that this isn't new. It is not that he now appears with a government of the Socialist Party, that this is what the People's Party was doing, with you in this bank, systematically voting against the interests of Galicia. Because the problem we have here -- yes, yes -- is a problem where PP and PSOE make Galicia a plier because they alternate with discrimination in our country. [[Applause]] We govern the PP: cutbacks and lies; and, I'm very sorry, but we rule the PSOE: also non-compliance with our country. Because the good accounts they have are that they are very clear, and what you can't tolerate is investments that rise by 68% in territorialized across the state and that in Galicia are down by 11%. Because, tell them what they say, that means discriminating our country when we need more investments. We looked bad at the cuts in the People's Party, and we felt the cuts in the Socialist Party were just as bad. [[Applause]] They can do whatever they want. We, of course, are going to be where we have always been in the defense of Galicia's interests, because that's what moves us. And, defending Galicia, we defend equality, social justice and a fairer world. I believe — finished, Counselor — that we are in a very complex moment, in a very difficult moment. And, I insist, we want the government to succeed, but they don't make it right when they come with accounts that are routine, propaganda and that show us once again that they have no future project. And the thing is, this country doesn't need to be given a door, it needs hope. Accept our amendments and let's work to make things best for the Greeks and the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Turn of the Town Councillor and Public Administration.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u21	Thank you again, Mr. President. Mrs. Pontón, Mr. Knight, thank you very much for your tone. We know that we have very different positions, but I think it is possible, indeed, to always reach an understanding - if possible, after dialogue - to arrive at agreements and consensus, which is what we are talking about. What would never happen to me -- indeed; there are several things that would never happen to me -- that is to say what Mr. Knight said twice or three times, and that he repeated: "If you correct, you will have your hand stretched out." It has been said that I, from the absolute majority, recently validated, will never ask you to correct the Block, in your case. I simply ask you to dialogue, to agree, if possible, on some issues and so to speak. There are a lot of things, as I said to them -- and now I'll focus on it -- that I've never thought about, because the debates are repeated, but there's a concept that's been handled around here -- it's a shame they don't read or look at what's spoken in commission at times -- and there's no need for great eloquence or big words, what if it's good is to put it from time to time a little bit of metric -- some call it "accountables" at that -- It's good not only to have the gift of the word, but to accompany it with the highest possible quantifications, because if not, truly, those who remain as contacts are one of you. Sometimes they're rough words, but I think, in general, the tone was very appropriate. As if I believe in the relative importance well told, let me reverse what seems to be usual. This is the sixth time I come here, isn't it? There's a certain degree of adanism in some postures, but I'll try not to be too adanist. Let me start by answering some of the things that have been formulated since BNG. I'm not going to use the inverse relative importance. There is a recurring issue, such as the comparison of 2009 with 2020, Mrs Pontón. I'm surprised your spokesman in the Commission didn't explain any of these matters to you. It's funny that certain punctualizations are intended from a certain professionalism, but we're still in a very interesting way that goes wrong. Because when you look at the 2009 budget, Mrs Pontón, the non-financial expenditure, which was EUR 11,426 million, it turns out that there are splits that today - starting with the councils; I will also talk about the councils within a moment - if I take into account what was previously seen by budgets, the National Fund for Municipal Cooperation, which now has an extraordinary character or the theme of the European fund - in this case - of the Feaga, the comparable term is 10,538 million euros; 10,538 compared to 11,563, which is the non-financial expenditure we made for the year 2021. And if you continue to maintain that one amount is greater than another, there's something missing here. Second error - methodological -. It's wrong, I won't get tired of repeating it, and once again the formula: applying the IPC to inflation, the original amounts are not to have... I think that's economic first. I don't want to be an economist, either. That's what Mr. Caballero is for. [[Laughter]] It turns out that the normal - which for something is calculated - would be to apply the deflator of GDP. And the deflator between 2009 and 2021, estimating for the year 2020 and the year 2021 the amount contained in the state macro-economic framework — although they do quite well, Mr. Caballero; not all of them do harm — the resulting amount would be 11.096 versus 11.563. And it's still wrong that it's wrong with certain mantras. That is indeed mantras, Mrs. Pontón, and not some of the questions you have said. Because, man, we're saying it's a mantra that this is the biggest budget in history, and it's not; we're saying it's the biggest investment in history, and it's not; that it's the greatest social care in history, and it's not; and that year by year this we're doing it... They're not mantras, they're realities, realities, and I'll refer to them, and to useful politics too. As far as relative importance is concerned, we could almost repeat what we did in the Commission. There are two gentlemen living in a village, and one has eight cows and the other two. A friend from the village on the side, who was already older and had six very well-kept cows, and gave him, at which he had 8, 4 cows, and, at which he had 2, other 2 so that the poor had grown a little more in his quef. Conclusion from there a month, when it comes back: the gentleman who had 2 cows and now has 4 is perfectly grateful because he can already start to have a little bigger business and a little better attended; and the lord who had 8 cows and now has 12 does not speak to him. What's the conclusion? That he had lost relative importance. The cows are told of one and everything is told in a certain way. It's not the same level of play that was in one moment as in another. The relative criteria cannot be judged and used. I understand that Mr. Knight is very good at the relative concept, and here I have to say that it is very coherent, very coherent. Yes, I recognize consistency in that, because, in essence, it is the same thing that I have been defending since July 13: as, rising in relative importance, it has the same Members as before - a paradox - and as the People's Party, rising a little relatively, it turns out that it has one more. It's these mathematical issues that sometimes have to be and which have to be put in numbers. And I'm going to put numbers -- not just words -- to numbers. But, well, go over there. Also when one says -- and someone doesn't understand it -- that the macro frame of our community has a profile similar to Spanish, with a lot of nuances: when we're going well, it looks like we're not going so well, and when we're going bad, not so bad; then we don't do anything. As it has always been, we let ourselves go and we stayed so close. Macro frame. With regard to the macro painting, in the last, indeed, in some of them, curiously, there are very good professionals - I think they are the ones from Funcas, who were the last to take it out, indeed - everything is very changing. It's not about right, because, about the size of what we're talking about, it's so big the fall that's going to happen in 2020, it's so big... with a very important recovery in 2021. Interestingly, the greater the fall in 2020, the greater the recovery in 2021, everything indicates in medium terms. Damn the joy, because at the end of the day, we are all talking to "sickness of Spain" -- I'm telling you for this one that speaks to them -- using Unamuno's expression, because, truly, if here is going to be a cake, in Spain the cake will be slightly larger, at least in 2020, and in 2021 we'll look. We have our specificities, and most of our explorations -- from what we trust most, apart from the IGE and Airef -- give us some amounts that range between 8.6 and 9.7. With our third quarter's accounting, it gives us the amount closer to 8.6, which gave us Airef. But, above all, it's to realize that this is very changing, because the reality of this last quarter, with confinements, perimeters, consumption behaviors and investment decisions that are very dull, is producing as a result that we are slightly worse than what we were in the third quarter in Spain, and also in Galicia. But what is true, apart from the level of wealth, is that what interests us very much - both you and me at least - is the labour market. Because in fact, in the labour market it is the first great social policy. The first great social policy is only the increase in occupation and also to take into account that each person who works does so for an increasingly high wage and at the same time avoiding precariousness, both in the public and in the private sphere; and, indeed, there will be an impact on the level of employment during the first quarter, especially perhaps the first half, but we believe that there will not be that intensity later. Relative, comparative, macro-frame significance... there is another topic that has just been mentioned here, on the issue of municipalities. In the matter of the municipalities, in the relationship between the Town Councils -- that there is usually a subcommittee, that for that is -- it is not so much the struggle of whether the Council receives, does not receive or can transfer to the Town Councils. The municipalities know — this was the last proposal they were made — that in what goes from here to the end of February – as much as in March – there are five themes, in principle, that will be put together as noble as possible. For our part, it won't be. We're talking about home service -- some of your people have introduced it -- we're talking about day care, we're talking about water, we're talking about education, we're talking about... If you look at each other, those are the skills we have most in common. What's better than looking at common competitions so that, once they're sharp, what they come after, which is what's financing these competitions, we put numbers, names and surnames on them? So, the unconditional character that today has the Local Cooperation Fund may have one size or another, I don't prejudge it, but what you can't be saying is: finance me, finance me, finance me, and, where you give me, I do something, which in principle, I would be free. I think it's the right way to do it. That's also a numerical contrast, also an accountant, of what can be done with the municipalities, and not be until the day of the final trial in the afternoon. I'm setting a deadline for the first time -- I think it's reasonable -- that's February or March. I think that's very important. Another theme is the debt of the Feijóo stage, Mrs. Pontón. It's strange not to have mentioned Mr. Knight to her as well. I'll take care of her, too. It must be the tenth time I speak, but I'll try again a twelfth, a tenth third, a tenth and a fourth time; so I'll always do it, always! The debt, when the Bipartite arrived - 01/06/2005 - was 3,325 million euros - point out, Mr. Caballero; if not, I leave this, if so; you, who talks little numbers -. It was the debt on 01/ 06/ 2009. [[Laughter]] I use this debt, Mrs. Pontón, not that of the 31st of December, because there was a bipartisan government that was until March-April of 2009. You will understand that there must be a certain rigour in the treatment that must be given to the issues. So, 4,282. Increase in debt, 957. The debt on 31/ 12/ 2019 was 11,315; it was not 14,000. We all have mistakes; I mean it was wrong, it was 11,315 million euros. But there's something that's strange to me about the Block, because we've been in the past -- a good part of the Socialist Parliamentary Group wasn't, so it doesn't have to -- it's something called negative liquidations. It was the years 2008 and 2009, that we have to pay for everyone, and man!, to tell me that this is due to the Feijóo stage, that is to fall from the tree. It turns out that on December 31 last year we took 1,241 million euros of the two-partite stage charged at the Feijóo stage, and we still have to pay, up to two thousand thirty-something, 933 million euros. If we do so, together with a quantity - which is sometimes also good to know accounting - as is the early year of 2007, which was liquidated by reducing deliveries to that year of the Autonomous Community in 2009, by 223 million euros... In conclusion, the Bipartite, at its stage, increased the debt by 2,421 -- I'm not counting the 933 that we still lack of liquidation 8.9 -- in four years, economic kindness, anticyclical performance, right, Mr. Knight?, you, who then asks for certain economic policy guidance. And at the Feijóo stage, 5,568, in a global financial crisis at the highest level. In size, it's still about to determine the current one, that of the pandemic, which I think will be much worse. That in ten and a half years, and yet we have to be listening to certain classics here. Regarding the React-EU Fund, Mrs. Pontón, I couldn't believe it, I had to read it several times. We are of the few autonomous communities that we budget the React-EU Fund in a prudent way, because it's funding that needs to be implemented between 2021 and 2023. They follow a logic of programming, very similar to Feder and ESF at European level. That's how we do it in five lines of action. And, prudently -- because we've already been looking at the behavior of the state -- in the first year, 8,000 million -- of the 10,000 that are, in principle, assigned to the autonomous communities -- what we do is we calculate 5.3%, and not 5.7% that would touch us by direct population. It's a simple precaution. I'm also telling you that it's not as good as programming logic, planning logic, Mr. Caballero -- you see, we have certain programming and planning logics -- So, I'm really surprised that one of the 15 or 16 I've been putting it on, Mrs. Pontón, of the ones I've been enunciating. It's just, come on, I'm up! That 430 over 8,000 - which is 5.3% seems to remind me - it seems little - our size - and that 5.7% is one of the major cases to return this budget, is that, let's go! It doesn't make any sense or any sense at times what you have to hear. Tax capacity. I'm very surprised you've been called fiscal capacity since the two parties. And why don't we run and see him? Why don't we really talk to people? Why do they put forward the property tax, when we have the same rate as the two-party government, which is the same as today's default state? What if you criticize us, have the same as you? When you talk about tax capacity -- we run that veil, as we say -- we're talking about tax revenue; tax revenue is what you're talking about. Why don't they make it clear? We'll talk about some issues today in the afternoon about that too -- quite classic to most of them, although there's some new things -- We all repeat, Mrs. Pontón, we all repeat! And before I get into the fat, as I already referred several times to the main items that, in my view, were already black on white, when they make the whole amendment to these budgets, I mean that there is another of the issues that is indeed very dear to those who have just arrived -- I must leave the glasses there; as I go older, little can read -- [[Mr. Consecutor of Fairy and Public Administration, Martínez García, is looking for his glasses.]] Mr. Knight, before you go in, we're called an accountant. Very honest, eh! If it's good for you not to be very wrong, to use precisely and with certain rigour, I tell you to be very honest. What if I'm going to tell you is that, after your exhibition, you do look like the union link of the central government here in Galicia, the under-delegate two -- because there's a delegate one; I already tell you under-delegated two in the Coruña -- I hope you take yourself a little better than your comrades on the other side of the party in the city of Coruña. But, well, that, in the houses, it always happens; you always argue more with those who have the most relationship. It's okay! There are several things - I also said it in committee - that I would like to say. It's just that you're getting bigger and you'd never expect to look at certain things; they're things you'd never expect to look at in my life. Of course, I'm not as smart as to think of this traumatic situation of pandemic, health, social and economic in which we live, but what I would never think of is that this government, intentionally so progressive that you have at the central level, is able to share these extraordinary funds by the level of wealth that each autonomous community has. This is the world in reverse, Mr. Knight! And that, above, let's be proud that 1.1% of GDP taken as reference for the Central Government to transfer these resources that are in principle their -- I will now explain -- it turns out that it gives Galicia 1.1%, which is poorer than Madrid, which is poorer than Catalonia and is poorer than you are saying. This is a trap! By the way, the difference that would simply have to apply the population to that criterion that I just told you would already give to the 100 million euros practically - to a little less than the 100 million you were able to change at the end of your speech, because it was a speech, of course; argumentation, little, uh! -. [[Laughter]] It's incredible! And besides, don't be mistaken, this is a double trapping. First, they are distributing the credits by the level of wealth, in principle, allocated to each autonomous community, and, secondly, that no one is wrong, the origin of these funds at the central level is indebted, and in the debt of our citizens are equal. We're all the same in debt. So this is going to be paid with the apricot of every German citizen and at the same time we will receive according to the level of wealth. A trap! And in the European funds that we consider -- we'll see each other, uh! -- we're just considering the React-EU, we're not talking about any other kind of next generation, nor those that can come through sectoral conference, that there will be, because, if there's anything that has very clear about any autonomous community, it's that the central government can't manage. So he needs autonomous communities. It is that, if it were for them, because of that Jacobinism of what they do as much gala, both the United Nations and those of Podemos and those of the current PSOE, we would not have as much ball, as we have seen in the first stage -- unfortunately -- of the centralized purchase in health management. They can't manage. We are the autonomous communities that we do. Even if that's all we're gonna do, we're gonna get something through the sectoral conference. There's another classic, and you're always wrong; I think you're wrong about parliament. In the last few years that you've been out and those who've been pretty quiet I think that leads you to make mistakes. Look, if there's a government that's been saving money since 2009 in high office, in terms of possible staff, that's what he's been talking about. From 2009 to 2021, we have saved 44.5 million euros in nominal terms in terms of high office and, in terms of possible staff, 25.4 million euros. We now have a size of 5.9 in front of 7.3 that had the two-party government, and yet what we need to hear! There are other issues, as you say, such as advertising and propaganda. We've got 12.9 million euros less in advertising and propaganda at this stage, and we still have to hear the shrapnels. Well, see if someone's wrong and there's something left... He doesn't feel sorry for reality. Look like the accounting is necessary sometimes! There is another classic that was also mentioned here several times, which is that of health concerts; for example, the health concert of "health deprivation." It turns out they excluded the ambulance service -- and they won't allow it, right? what happened to the ambulances, especially last year, with a translation to this -- and we've got 146.9 million euros less in concerts. Well, year by year, you have to hear about the privatization of health care. He doesn't feel sorry for reality. Today, in the budget of 2021, 186.9 million euros; the Bipartite, 197.9. As far as I can tell, 197.9 is bigger, twelve years later, that 186.9, and we continue on the same path. There's another thing that's strange to me again -- and it's the third or fourth time I'm telling you -- and it's the methodological error that once again includes, and, when so many years have gone by, Mrs. Pontón, I have to tell you that I'm starting to suspect that this is about, which is the topic of primary care. In primary care, point to one data: primary care revenues, in 2009, 883.4 million euros. By the way, the expenditure was brutally higher, the same as in 2008 it had been brutally higher. The year 2021, 749.6 million euros. By the way, spending and credit are practically the same. At this stage, Mrs Pontón, the savings made in medical prescriptions were EUR 1.626.2 million. And they're still talking about 2,000 million euros of primary care cut. Not even with a shoemaker. Another question you all talk about. As far as primary care is concerned -- and the other thing I didn't do in my life, with my people, who went to Sergas's human resources -- when you analyze the template that was in Sergas in 2009 -- there's no need to be a lynx -- in primary care and today's care, it's seen that it's greater that there is at these times than there was at that time, considering that there are certain personnel, especially of services -- who are now called -- who are now; they were not called services, but "non-health care" -- who are in other matters. When I go to the optional staff and when I go to the non-optional health staff, it turns out he doesn't feel sorry, I don't know where the cut is, and here, it's wrong. To show, a button: year 2021, the Greek primary care plan, increase in squares, 161, of which 49 are for optional and 103 for health care personnel. But do I still have to apologize for that? By the way, and I take advantage of it, because I know you made a reference here to the mental health plan, which says we're going to take a while. I don't know how many years in the terminal. It's just that we play with the amounts again! Mental health plan, increase in squares for the year 2021: 120, of which 63 is optional staff, 43 health personnel and 14 service personnel. 120 squares! And we keep putting a heading in the budget, connected to the vault, a million like something, and we do the 1980s chascarrillo. But do you really know how to tell your people? Can we really count? Another classic, Mr. Caballero, is the labour market. But why do we play with questions? Why are we playing...? Here are the reference rates. Then you'll have to look for the causes, and maybe you're right that what we have in the autonomous community, like in many others, is a demographic problem. Second quarter of 2009, as I said earlier: occupied, 1,000,152.9; assets, 1,000,319.6; occupancy rate, 87,6; activity rate, 16.64 — less bad than we are in a country where neither under 16 nor normally above 64 — 72,05. Third quarter of the year 2020, last known data - 1,082,6. In fact, there are fewer busy, but it turns out we have an occupation rate that is 88.2, higher - as far as I know - than the economic bonus of 87.4 that was at the time. And yet, we're talking about what it is. But you don't know that, if not, at the rate of such...? The unemployment rate, exactly, was 12.63, and now, in the pandemic, 11.8. Do you still have to give quantitative explanations of this? No, what we have to do is keep fighting to be under 10%, which is impossible right now because of the pandemic. But I don't think we should forget what is the basis of what was at the time and what is the basis of assets at the time. And the rate of activity is, by the way, 72.64. But where is he? Again, when I tell you that here is what comes to work, there is another message that speaks about both the BNG and the PSOE, because it turns out that official data published -- it's good from time to time to official data -- they tell us -- the National Institute of Statistics, in 2009 and 2018, average annual earnings per worker -- that Galicia is the autonomous community where the average annual average per worker has increased. I apologize for being the one else. But it's just that, in addition, if we take into account that the average is sometimes distorted -- and I use the median as better representation; and there's no need to know a lot of descriptive statistics -- it turns out that we're not the first, that we're the second. I apologize for being the second of 19 - which is also Ceuta and Melilla -. I beg your pardon; we are the second, behind Balearics. I won't be happy when the data goes out in two years this year 2020 and Baleares goes out pretty badly. I honestly promise anyone I'm not glad people stay behind, eh! There's a lot of talk here about industry, industry, industry and industry, and it turns out that the growth since 2009 in industry was 19.6%, again being the second autonomous community that grew most throughout this stage. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I think I'm just going to get a little bit where I wanted to, also in matters of R+D+i. There have never been better results in this autonomous community, and we will never have to do so much to continue growing in a matter that was essential up to the early stage, which is essential at this stage and which will be essential in the future. Totally okay, but why don't we get the whole thing done? Why is it not said that in 2009 the appropriations for that progressive government that we had in Galicia were EUR 141.9 million and that we are currently talking about more than EUR 221 million, not counting the financial assets, where we have now more than before? Turns out we're talking about an increase of 55.8%. Well, I'm sorry. When I go to see people, that talent that we can't lose, it turns out that in INE statistics, in the R & D+i sector, the spending we had in 2009 was 3.6%, and now it's 4%. Grow; little, but grow. In the workers, it turns out we had 9,972, and now we have 11.085, in the global. I apologize for having more, too, for being the one who grew bigger. In the investigator's staff, of that staff I told you, 6,079 were researchers, and today there are 6,724. Where is the snippet? Can I feel happy, as some of the statements have been made about this? No way, but what they're telling us is that with the policy we're doing, by the way, in terms of R & D+i, if we just checked for the second or third year that where it's growing up in an orderly manner, it's in the civil sphere, because, as much as we do in the private sector compared with what happens in the most developed countries of Europe and the world, we need as water from rubbers moving these innovation policies into the civil sector. Interestingly, the civilian sector is growing the most since 2018 and 2019. So I've just been telling them a little bit, and I think we have to sit down. I don't like this kind of debate, because we've really taken a long time against each other, and I think there's more basis, really, to wake up. It's not just the 115 of the Consensus Fund. To be "the people's party," said Mr. Knight; "the people" said Mrs. Pontón. When people are called to vote, as an electoral body, and since one is the party of the people and the other is the people's party, I don't know how always the People's Party stays ahead of that. Are people who vote for the People's Party being clever? [[Mr. Advocate of Fairy and Public Administration, Martínez García, does a gesture with the hand that resembles the act of voting.]] Because it's something that I really don't understand; as I don't understand that so-called progressive and almost-Stateist defence of public services, when they say that both in the home and residence aid service, as in the new model, privatization... but, to see, about the home aid service, or about the municipal daycare facilities, do you know any council where to send the Block or where to send the PSdeG, or where they send in command, where these kind of services are not outsourced, curiously with the same companies as we also have our agreements and contracts? It's okay to teach, please, it's okay to teach! And, of course, in the fiscal issue there's a chasm between you and us, but I think there'll be something wrong if you don't consider those 568,000 people who benefited, because soon there won't be 568,000, the next year will be very close to 700,000 people, and people who don't usually be as easily -- as I said there was a moment -- it's forgetful. They have a problem and they're going to have an election problem. Now there are now four times, and there will be a fifth, there will be a fifth, because within very little we will be in 900,000, and there are 900,000 people who do so or so. [[Mr. Advocate of Fairy and Public Administration, Martínez García, does a gesture with the hand that resembles the act of voting.]] [[Mr. Farmer and Public Administration Counsellor, Martínez García, does the same with both hands.]] They have a political problem and they have a problem from the point of view of the level of formulation, because I repeat again: when you talk about tax capacity, what you're really talking about is tax wisdom, tax increase, and that doesn't feel sorry for reality. I'll be done. If it is good, Mrs. Pontón and Mr. Caballero, to speak of what state budgets are, it looks like, in a formulation or in another formulation. When the State budgets - also extraordinary in nature, Mr. Gonzalo Caballero, which does not fall from the sky - are the highest in the history of this country, we have come down - the least in fifteen years -. Thank you, uh, thank you. And then they tend to be certain levels of incoherence with everyone...! I will not refer to some of the questions, Mrs. Pontón, to the hair booties that also have to do with, not so much with the budgets, which is the fundamental question, but rather with questions that are very important to him, as when we talk about the replacement rates and again there are others who are about rositas, but then they are against cuts in public services and in defence of public employees and non-temporality. I think it's a scandal what's going on about that, and I don't think it's a receipt that neither one of them would refer to that kind of question. And I'm just going to try to be a little bit more proactive in the second intervention, but I couldn't afford to keep my mouth shut about the subjects we've talked about so many times and that in no way correspond to what happens if we stop talking and if we do a little more metric, even if it's called accounting. Thank you very much, and until within a moment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u22	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Round of the non-amendant parliamentary group. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Puy has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, apart from congratulating the Councillor on bringing us some budgets which, logically, we will support, also wanted to do so because the incidents of life made this debate take place precisely on the 40th anniversary of the referendum on the Statute of Self-Government for Galicia, which was celebrated, as you know, on December 21, 1980, in the midst of a high abstention. But fortunately, after forty years in which this community has always approved its budgets, it has been able to consolidate among us the autonomous state, consolidate democracy and, in addition, allow a leap forward in well-being as our country had never had in our contemporary history, in this case the hand of autonomy. The best data that can sum up this and that I think I'm undoing all the catastrophic and pessimistic arguments we've heard this morning is the evolution of the gross domestic product per capita. Just by referring to the last ten years, I will say that in the years 2009 to 2019 it grew by 17.4%, and the average of Spain grew by 14.6%; that is, it is almost three points of convergence. In fact, we are the second single community that most converged from all over Spain, reaching our historical peak in per capita GDP in relation to the state average, more than 90, to 90,3 in 2019. In the data just made public, we are the tenth autonomous community; in 2008 we were number 12; and, in addition, when autonomy began, we were the penultimate of all. I take advantage of this optimistic fact, which gives us confidence in autonomy, self-government, budgets and the ability to organize our resources, to welcome this debate to Mr Caballero. It is the first debate to take place after last year's resignation. Although possibly because of that inexperience, he focused on justifying the inexplicable abandonments that state budgets have with Galicia, when 11% fall investment in Galicia and 50 percent grow, in other communities that have already had AVE for a long time, and it is said here they are diminished by the AVE, when, then, they are showing that the People's Party has left in the budgets that were vigilant - that were those of the People's Party - all the funding of the AVE. And besides, they forget, without going further, the 200 million of the VAT that this House has claimed - I think I remember that even with socialist support - or 170, by complying with the rules of financial stability, that are still pending and that they are not incorporated into these budgets. We arrived here with a long, troubled journey, as they were on their day for the approval of the Galician Autonomy Statute itself at the height of those that were already approved - the Basque Country and the Catalonian country - but the fact is that the country has always passed it successfully. Today, which we are facing a pandemic that brings about an economic and social crisis, we are probably facing the worst moment of autonomy, in the face of the most difficult assumptions, because not only do we have to overcome the health emergency, we also have to allow economic recovery and prepare Galicia for the poscovid society, solving those problems that we were all aware that we had as society, in the short term, but in the medium and long term, such as demographic problems, the ecological transition, the digital transition, the public services, as well as giving capacity to demand the needs of a citizen that, logically, is increasingly demanding. The budgets for the coming year are, first and foremost, an instrument of certainty. It's good to have budgets. I will spare the House the arguments we heard, when other budgets were debated, that even before we knew the content of the budgets it was asked the opposition to support them because the exceptional situation of the crisis demanded that there be broad support for the budgets. Or even we heard - in this case in allusions not so much to our group, but to other groups in this House - that were antipatriots who did not support budgets. It's good that there are budgets, and what's good is that budgets are also good. And from there we are certainly open to the democratic discrepancies of this debate, and we are also grateful that as far as possible dialogue is feasible. We will, of course, accept those amendments that are viable. This afternoon, we will see that some of the ones that have been presented are inadmissible, because we would first have to reform state legislation, or we will see, for example, whether they are positive. Certainly, we have started a process of dialogue. Now, dialogue is facilitated when criticism is a bit coherent. I was reminded that if I accused you of having changed, of making a complete amendment to our budgets in previous years with this year's budgets and that we finally reached the progressive bible, but at the same time, you present these assumptions — which, of course, radically change the previous policy — an amendment to the whole. I personally cannot understand an argument of criticism, because now we correct, but at the same time, correction is also presented to the whole amendment. If we look at the budgets, we believe that they are appropriate to the situation, to the academic consensus, to the international consensus and also to the consensus of the European Union. First, we have to fund the emergency, we have to make direct transfers to workers and viable companies, and we have to have a fiscal policy based on two aspects. The first is that income must also be a fiscal stimulus to citizenship. So, and as we're checking across Europe, no one gets taxed in the middle of this crisis, because it's justly anticyclical and anti-Keynesian rising taxes right now in the crisis. We have to let the tax stabilizers work, which, by the way, are the very ones of progressive taxation and which are acting and will continue to act. Of course, in spending, we need to strengthen public services, essentially health care, certainly with a continuum, to start with the projects that were under way and that stopped as a result of the pandemic, to accelerate those that were already in portfolios, and to plan new projects. And we have to do all this with transparency. Anyway, I'm not going to say that here we've done things, this whole pandemic season, with absolute transparency, as the publication of all contracts on the web -- something that not all administrations have done -- and we've also made the allocation of funds transparent. It would be good if, before accusing someone of not presenting funds to a contest, if you knew what the bases of that contest were, to know exactly how to compete with him to have the ability to obtain the maximum possible resources. Of course, we are also in a consensus in which even President Sánchez said we had to get out of the crisis in collaboration with the private company. Well, I don't know if this is an amendment to all that you're saying it's impossible to make a public-private collaboration, but it's true that I haven't heard it from any of the opposition spokespersons. Because all that we are doing in Galicia and Spain is possible thanks to the European Union; a European Union that is financing the expenditure that the Spanish economy needs, which was weaker than others. We're calling him the Marshall Plan. I don't care to call it Plan Marshall, but I would like to remember that the Marshall Plan has undergone the greatest transformation of a managed economy, as was the economy of the old National Socialist Germany, by a social and market economy, which was what the Marshall Plan financed. So, just as then, they probably come not with economic conditions, but certainly with the need for reforms, or to prevent counter-reforms, like some that are being announced. Because we actually have more spending capacity; they are the highest budgets in history in homogeneous terms. And they're possible for a number of reasons: firstly, for transfers that make Europe and arrive in Galicia through the state, because interest in debt has also been reduced thanks to the monetary policy of the European Union. If we analyze the content of the debt -- the advisor's advance -- we can see how the resources given to us by the collection of the Lofca system decrease by 1.6, the same as the Local Cooperation Fund, which is not said to decrease because it decreases the participation in tax revenues, while the whole of the transfers goes up. In fact, they're more than just compensating for automatic discharge in participation in the Union's tax revenues with current transfers that the Union makes to the municipalities. And it owes 685 million euros, also because Europe relaxes deficit targets and because Galicia's internal distribution accounts for 1.1% of GDP. As the advisor has already said exactly what consequences this has, by calculating the GDP, of course, favours those who have a larger GDP, but what is not being said - and I have received a lot of attention that no one has said, especially some opposition spokesmen - is that they give us 1.1% of the debt. Because I would like to remind you of the debates we had in this House — for example, in 2012 — when the Government of Mariano Rajoy left the autonomous communities indebted to 1.5 per cent. So it was said that it was an asymmetric deficit, that the state was indebted and that they didn't let us be indebted to us. That's all we've got to endure. Well, we go through the book, we assume deliveries to account, and we're worried, of course, about the negative liquidations that might arise from this. We assume all the debt capacity that leaves us the current government called progressive. And, of course, we also put in place all the investment capacity that gives us a good budget policy, which allows a current savings of almost 1 billion — 950 — even though we are also fulfilling the increase in public wages agreed by the state of 0.9 and all the pacts we agree with the union forces. Therefore, we are doing something that — I insist — is the result of the joint and consensual action of the European international institutions, which, with certain nuances, reaches the autonomous community through the Government of Spain. Of course, here some questions were said about fiscal policy - the advisor has already answered -. The truth is that we are acting as all the countries of Europe are doing, which is falling into the imposition that affects people with lower income; maintaining a drop that was in this line of income tax on physical persons; also maintaining the ability to capitalize families with fewer resources through a succession tax — which now threatens, by the way, a bill that is being processed, and we will debate in this House a proposal by the People's Party to avoid it, because it is charging the successor pacts proper to Galician civil law; and, of course, maintaining an instrument of equity that does not exist practically in any European country and that, as the adviser said, is up to what the State itself has marked as a general nature, which is the tax of wealth. So we believe that we are with a fiscal policy that fits the general consensus, because it is a general consensus that, in addition, has a very solid theoretical and academic foundation, because that's what it is right to do right now; and also in the line of expenditure. Expenditure is focused on the pandemic: EUR 8.540 million is exclusively for health, social policy, education, employment and equality, all of which are important in the budget. In addition, a hedge fund of 500 million is created, a strategic reserve of another 33 million euros, fosters reactivation with 12% gross capital formation, chapters VI, VII and VIII amount to more than 2,500 million euros... i.e. 53% of investment. In addition, money is also reserved for digital transformation and for public services and green transformation, with 430 million of the React Fund. And we also have the Consensus Fund, which we hope to use to meet all these objectives. Expenditure is eminently redistributive. Mrs. Pontón said that we always announced that we would improve social spending; but that's true. I've been looking for a quick reference. This year, as I have just said, social expenditure represents EUR 8.540 million - only the social expenditure of the budgets - and in 2014 the total budget was EUR 8.390 million; that is, only social expenditure this year exceeds the total non-financial expenditure of the year 2014; certainly, because there are new instruments and new possibilities, because, indeed, we are faced with an exceptional situation. And we can do it because we're strong. We are seeing how the countries that have done their homework in the past - those you are now criticizing - have much more reaction capacity in the face of the crisis, while those who have not adjusted it - for example, Spain, in 2019 -, according to the deficit path agreed with Europe, have much less reaction capacity. We just have to see what Europe's countries are spending on economic reactivation and what Spain can spend on. But the last example we have with the help of the inn. In Germany, 75% of last year's billing will be paid to hotels; in Galicia there are direct aids for 87 million euros —17 exclusive to the inn and the rest accumulable in their condition or self-employed or small business—and Spain, what does it decide? It decides that, instead of putting money, it takes the foremen, the big foremen of the place, imposing a reduction of the renters. It's an important difference that shows that what you say is an amendment to the past is on the contrary; what shows that past politics was useful and that if all Spain had done as Galicia did, the country itself would have much more responsiveness to support the sectors that are now going through it. You criticize budgets that invest in Galicia three times as much as the state's budgets in total terms, which rise to 53%, when the state budgets fall by 11%. You criticise some budgets because they're little ambitious, when they grow 1,500 million, and last year you presented growth amendments of 225 and 227 million, that is, they multiply by seven expenses you wanted to add last year. Certainly, you can compare with any of the administrations that you govern to the effect that growth is exceptional. And this exceptionality is very much in contrast to the democratic normality of this parliamentary procedure. The processing time has been shortened in that medium, when normal is three months, but parliamentary procedures have not been reduced, which not all administrations can say, and here is the example of the processing of state budgets in Congress. Secondly, they have realistic forecasts -- and so they say to Airef -- something that also makes us different from other budgetary procedures. Thirdly, there is a debate — and this is important to me — which has the characteristic that it is strictly budgetary. There are no amendments to this because it comes to agreements that have nothing to do with budgets, the transfer of goods or the exchange of future rules, etc. These budgets are being dealt with with with with absolute normality, discussing amendments and negotiating, and not with a sort of achievement — as it was traditionally called in the United States — of what I support you or what I am interested in you to support me is what I am interested in...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u24	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u25	...without taking into account what the general interest is. And finally, fourthly, I am an example of institutional normality; the institutional normality that the People's Party has always supported: to a European Monetary Union which is making monetary policy, to a European Union which is also making fiscal policy — and therefore because it is monetary at the same time as fiscal it is not strictly Keynesin, but neoclassic-Keynesian — and which reflects a broad economic consensus — that we regret that the PSOE in Galicia does not share — and also political-institutional, that the Block has never shared and that we hope that someday it will share. We will support this project. It was said that there was an accountant here, that this was accounts, but not a country project. We support some good accounts because they're the best way to build a good country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u26	Thank you, Mr. Puy. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica round of the amending groups. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Caballero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. After listening to the People's Party today speaking in this Parliamentary House, we already know that we all now intend to be Keynesians, that we all now put on the jacket to understand that budgets that increase spending, that try to protect people and that allow them to strengthen public services are the valid instrument to escape the greatest crisis in which GDP falls above 9% in the Greek economy, when in previous crises we reached the 4% drop and we were already alarmed so much and so many effects had. We all now pretend to be Keynesians, and the People's Party rectifies all its budget discourse on economic policy for eleven years. Today Mr Feijóo — who I don't know if he's not here because he has to meet some security rules or because he's not interested in the budget debate — should be correcting and apologizing because his economic policies have been in the opposite direction for eleven years. [[Applause]] I, Mr. Puy, agree with you that it is good that there are budgets, but these are not good budgets. I agree that there must be a country project, but you do not have a country project. You're correcting your previous policies today because they're going to spend more, but they don't know how to prioritize spending, how to commit to income, and how to take advantage of the historical opportunity of those spending to make a better Galicia. These budgets are going to waste an opportunity. They take no advantage of a historic opportunity to reactivate the economy in the face of the greatest economic, social and health crisis. They receive more than 1,100 million euros, plus extraordinary, from the state. And you would have to be here today recognizing that the new economic policy paradigm driven by progressives, social democrats in Europe and Spain, is what allows these budgets to have more gasoline. The problem is that whoever wears the fear of the boat has no road map, he doesn't know where to go, he doesn't know how to drive the ship for a lot of gas oil that we put in him. And that's why in an exercise of responsibility we ask you to rectify, correct, Counsellor, the lack of will for the agreement. You haven't contacted any parliamentary group on this camera to be able to lay the foundations for rebuilding the economy in the face of the deepest crisis. Of course, in the dialogue we will always be willing to look for that construction of a better Galicia and to be able to save people, to save self-sufficient people, to be able to save workers, to be able to save so many people who are going through it, and to those whom you don't have an answer. And that's why, of course, we are committed to fiscal capacity, because you don't believe in public services, because you don't believe in the welfare state, because you have a paradigm of neoliberal cuts that is still underlying your speeches. That's why he doesn't like us talking about tax capacity, and we do talk about tax capacity. Because in order to strengthen spending, in order to strengthen the welfare state, progressive policies are necessary that drive the collection on a progressive basis, so that those who have millionsary assets, who have incomes that are far above the average or median level in Galicia, can contribute a little more. What happens is that you don't have that commitment, because you'd rather remove the property tax to millionaires in Galicia than have more funds to be able to fund the home aid service, to be able to put a policy of tracking at the risk of the virus, or to help the self-government and the hostel. [[Applause]] You are in that speech, in a great farce. Of course I do, and you know, too, Counselor. You may have the bills, but you don't know what's behind the bills. There are no projects. What is the industrial policy behind the budgets that we bring today to the Galician Union? Zero. What is the policy that supports the country's productive fabric? Zero. What is the policy of supporting self-government, pemmes and small trade? Zero. What is the policy of supporting the welfare state? Zero. What they have is more funds, because they are given by the Government of Spain, because you, without the new economic policy marked by a progressive government, would be zero for economic recovery. [[Applause]] And I'm very hard on what I'm saying, because your speech is the discourse that still expires from this neoliberalism. Yes, Mr. Puy. If Buchanan sees you today defending Keynesian policies, I'd say that Public Choice is already dying, Mr. Puy. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Those policies, therefore, that you are now considering is a wrong policy of destiny, of orientation. Now spending policy assumes it's necessary, but they don't know what to spend on. Because in five weeks they've met with the biggest budget and have no plans for reactivation, no commitment to strengthening the welfare state, no policies for people. But it's all a marketing policy. Look, you're pointing out every day in the press that different measures can be taken. You sign, for example, on as many headlines as the Germans can ask for help of up to 2,000 euros. If there are 200,000 self-sufficient people in Galicia and they could ask for 2,000 euros, they would have to have 400 million euros in the budgets of the Galician Union, which were not in the first wave, which are not in the second wave and are not for 2021 either. Lying propaganda from the People's Party, which abandons the productive fabric. [[Applause]] They don't match the numbers. If you were to put up the accounts saying that microenterprises can claim up to 5,000 euros, and they realize that there are approximately 200,000 microenterprises and self-employed people with hired workers, it would take 1 billion euros. And where are they? They're in advertising, in marketing, in the falsity of the reconstruction sheet, which you don't have. They just want to confront the Government of Spain, and they should recognize the Government of Spain, how the Greeks and the Greeks will do, who know that it is with a progressive government how the public spending increases, which there are 1,100 million more in the funds of the Galician Union, that you didn't want them to arrive. And I'm going to make a very clear speech to you about the whole state. I know, I'll tell you very clearly, look. The evolution that exists in spending... [[Mr. Puy Fraga pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u28	Quiet, Mr. Puy, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u29	...of the whole state is different, of course. You see, when a father has seventeen sons or daughters and one of those children a year buys a vehicle, the level of investment in that child is historically dissipated. And when the next year you have to make a fund allocation and you don't buy that vehicle from that particular child, it doesn't mean there's discrimination. And in the case of Galicia, he continued to spend more on citizens than on average citizens in Spain, Andalusian, Catalan, Valencian or Madridn. You guys do a lie twerp, without numbers and without accounts, with stories. [[Applause]] Because the Government of Spain is a government that rises the pensions. [[Murmurs.]] How will it not be more progressive, Mrs Prado, the Government's budgets presided over by Pedro Sánchez than the budgets that Mr Rajoy made, who wanted to freeze pensions and sent a letter to all the Greek pensioners with those budgets? Of course they don't like to remember history, of course they're worried about it, because there's a government that thinks about people, that it invests in social, that makes the most social budgets in the history of the country, and the People's Party is allied with the right and the right to boycott. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because if there were no budgets here, you'd come to negotiate -- something they didn't do -- and you'd have the hand to approve those budgets. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] And I told you today: Rectify. And we're willing not to move forward in the amendment altogether. Nor is the answer, because the People's Party has no such responsibility and, when it's in the greatest fire there, the People's Party prefers to shut down the hose so as not to put out the fire and keep burning with Vox and the ultra-right against the Government of Spain. And here I am of high irresponsibility. Because that speech from Spain in the clothes is false, it's false in the budgets, it's false in the tax balances, it's false in the model of contribution in the public spending policies in a Galician with more pensioners and more dependent people. And you'd rather make that talk talk talk talk talk than to mention that you don't have a project for Galicia, that you don't have an economic policy, and that you're going to waste a historic opportunity of European funds again in order to raise the economy. [[Applause]] And that's why, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we ask them to rectify, collaborate, and understand that the possibility of spending more is the possibility that you should take advantage of a new paradigm that you come to wrong. Because they don't assume it, because even in the counsel's words, what the counselor says to us is: there's no need for tax revenues, if you can't raise taxes to the richest, public services are very well, the important thing is to keep your adjustments and not to shoot your debt. The speech he kept for eleven years and now he has to rectify and he doesn't know how to rectify, he doesn't know how to fill up Galician projects, he doesn't know how to take advantage of this opportunity at the moment of greatest concern. Today, the Greeks and the Greeks who are listening to this government find a government that is unbiased in people's protection policy, in the fight against inequality and in the economic and social reactivation of our country. They are orphaned, because the Government of the People's Party leaves an orphan a Galician who needs economic impulse and reactivation in the productive tissue, in the fight against inequality. If we ask the Greeks and the Greeks to tell us three important measures that in the first 100 days of this Feijóo legislation they had taken the Government of the Union to support the productive fabric and to save the country, what would they tell them? For during the first wave of the pandemic and until today the hosts, the autonomous...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u30	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u31	...the small merchants did not receive in their accounts yet a single euro, which now begin to launch them and did not receive them. Say you, Counselor, today here, with Mr. Rueda who can advise you, today how many hosts in our country have received help in their bank accounts in order to survive this crisis. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Tell you how you're going to pay...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u32	End, end, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u33	...the 2,000 euros... to 200,000 workers... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u34	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u35	...when it's 400 million euros...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u36	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u37	...and you devote 17 to the inn and 70. These are the stories they don't have... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u38	Finish. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u39	...accounts, the falsities of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u40	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u41	Finally, Mr President, tending the hand and willingness to build a better Galicia, with a People's Party that abandons the knee and wants to take advantage of the opportunities of the country. Positive disposition, but the accounts go above the PP accounts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u42	Thank you, Mr. Knight. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence! Let's just calm down, let's just calm down, which we're still starting. Quiet, it's still starting this and the day predicts long; then, let's go quietly. [[Murmurs.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica of amending groups. It's up to the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u43	Counsellor, you said in your speech something that seems to me worrying and that is part of the problem of how you conceive this country. She came to tell us that Galicia is poor, Galicia is poor; then, we have to ask. And I'm telling you no, Galicia is not poor. In any case, it will be a land impoverished by policies that do not allow us to develop the capacity and power we have in our country. I think that's part of the problem, and that's part of what you have to correct. [[Applause]] In any case, in my speech, I haven't come to much value the forecasts you make in relation to either GDP or unemployment or any of the macroeconomic variables. And I didn't do it deliberately, because I'm convinced that on this stage it's impossible for no forecast to make it right. Because there will be no certainty until we have controlled the pandemic and we don't know what evolution will be like in January, what will be the consequence from the epidemiological point of view of that objective that you were marked as saving Christmas, and we believe that what we have to do is save lives and avoid a third wave, and of course we have to work so that the vaccination campaign is actually a success, that it is done as soon as we can leave behind this collective nightmare that we are living in. [[Applause]] But I did make you a reflection, which, like everything else, you deosta, because you'd rather come here with the pride that gives them absolute majority, that they have, but I sincerely believe that a moment like this requires us to be willing to listen to each and every one of us. I know that you hurry up and say: bah!, we have an absolute majority and the rest I can ignore. But it's the attitude you want to face and I think it's a mistake. But I made that reflection and since we are undervalued -- I don't care -- maybe there was some reflection that makes some expert from that committee that you constituted, that is not a person from the BNG, Fernando González Laxe, that in a reflection that makes in a forum created by the Atlantic Axis and that has reached us all, it does warn that it is important that the same mistakes are not made in 2008. And precisely, it focuses on that Galician recovery was much slower and more unequal. Di: Galicia reached the prescribed level in the first quarter of 2008. He's talking about GDP, not employment. Galicia reached the prescribed level in the first quarter of 2008. This is, ten years later, while the Spanish economy has achieved it in the first quarter of 2016. That's why he says it's very important to act precisely in recovery and transformation plans. And one of the instruments we are going to have for that recovery is exactly how these budgets will act. And of course, we have to start with a realistic analysis. And you have to start by what has failed in the policies you've made over the years. Because something, Counselor, has to fail that we will still not get back the job we had and in addition to statistics that are made up, because in this country 22,000 people have emigrated, because otherwise the unemployment and unemployment rates would be absolutely devastating. Because it's really bloody that a problem like emigration you're using here to come up with statistics that -- I insist -- you're not using to light up, but just like the drunks with the headlamps, to rely on them instead of serving as an instrument to analyze what's going on. Because something will be missing, Counsellor, when, according to the Foesa report, 12.3% of the people working in Galicia are in social exclusion, and we are talking about 130,000 people, who are the tip of the iceberg, because, according to the National Institute of Statistics, there are 540,000 people living at risk of poverty in our country. I don't know if this is your healthy growth. We say of course that it's a Galician with more inequalities, that we want to change and improve, and what you have to work on. And look, you can come here to give the data you want, to flip the accounts as you want. But there's something very obvious: Galician public debt. Look, this is a graph, so it was evolving. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo shows a document.]] See? Yes, yes. But it's your public debt, it's not the public debt of that damn government that you always attach to as the source of all the evils in the universe. No, no. It's the public debt that's been generated in this country. And what he's telling us about the public debt in Galicia is that in 2009 there were 4,859 million euros of public debt, and today there are 14,515. Of course I do. You know why? Because we have EUR 2.339 million camouflaged debt under these public-private collaboration formulas, which, although they do not count in the same field, we have to return exactly the same, exactly the same. It's public debt covered, it's an accountant artifice to be able to be indebted at a time when there were very important limitations. [[Applause]] And I really am glad that now that the Socialist Party is ruling, the PP is against the breakdown of the deficit; it is that we welcome to denounce the discrimination that the People's Party also practised when it governed, which, in fact, always said that the state was left with most of the deficit capacity and discriminated against the autonomous communities. And we denounced it when the People's Party ruled, and we also denounced it when the Socialist Party ruled, because we believe that Galicia needs tools to be able to act against this crisis. It's the difference between them, indeed. [[Applause]] And look, about the debt, you can dress it up as you like, but the debt in 2009 was 8.6% of GDP, and today it's 19%. And that's the reality, but, well, your figures don't matter. And as I was asked to point numbers, I'm going to ask you to point one, too. Programme 412B, of primary care. In 2009, there were 1,436,746,424 euros; in 2021, 1,391,315,172 euros. This is what you devote to primary care, 45 million euros less in twelve years, and with an accumulated cut of more than 2,000 million euros over the course of this decade, which, of course, the professionals notice, but we did not report it, it was reported by the professionals themselves who resigned in block, for example in the Vigo area, because they said that you couldn't continue to manage the misery that you were leading to primary care. But if that's what they're being denounced by professionals. Why don't you want to take on reality? Because that's what's happening, as much as you're trying to come here and change your accounts. In the same way, you have to clarify something to me, because I don't know whether the information they send to Parliament is a lie and everything changes or the counsellor's mind here. European Union React Fund. What the Central Government says, that you literally include in the report they send us to the budgets, is that the Government will allocate 10,000 million euros from the React-EU Fund to the autonomous communities. And if you count 430 million, man!, you don't have to be an economist to realize that it's 4.3 percent, Counselor, I don't know what you said, that it was, yes, yes, yes, yes, that it was what you said; it's on the budget page; of course, is it that they're lying to us?; it is in the official information that you refer to Parliament. [[Murmurs.]] So, he's sending out some bad budgets? Is that the rigor you're working with? I'm going to pay you the page of the report you sent to Parliament, where you say exactly this, that you also say it's budgets for 2021, and you tell us it's for 2021 and 2022. So what are they, inflating public accounts in an artificial way? It's just that you have to explain it to us, Counselor, because it's all an absolute delusion. [[Applause]] And, in any case, what we should worry about is that things are doing well. Because look, the industrial field. You say Galicia is very well in the industrial field. He knows, however, that we have a lower weight of gross domestic product at industrial level than the European Union had as a target for 2020. The goal was to get 20%. We were at 17.2% and with serious industrial sectors in crisis, without any alternative from its Government. And look, I'm not a priest to ask anyone to apologize. I'm asking you to rectify the innovicide they're doing in our country. Because yes, today we have that the weight of innovation in our GDP is lower than it was in 2008. And he has responsibilities a Board of Galicia has cut off investment in this area during the toughest years of the crisis, which has caused half of the innovative companies in our country to die. [[Applause]] That's just the legacy you've made right now. And I'm done, just with two questions. It is clear that there has been no mention of our proposals, because everything here is going to lead to a debate about the absurdity, and we believe that there are very important things to change in this country. The first is that maybe we all need to have more realism, and I think that about the European Union each can have the idea that you want it, I think it is lawful to criticize many of the policies being made, especially when we see that now we are told that we have to cut pensions if we want to have access to the React funds of the European Union. That's not our model. [[Applause]] And also a little realism, because we see the difference in how bank and real economy or people are treated. When there was the 2008 crisis, a lot more resources were set aside to save the bank than are now being put on the table in the midst of the biggest health and economic crisis of the last century, which is leaving many people behind, among them, yes, many hosts and hosts who for a lot of propaganda you make in your newsmagazines...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u44	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u45	...and I'm going to finish -- what you see is that they've been up for almost a whole year with a brutal crisis and that those help that you say there's not enough to their pockets, that what they get is bills and bills that are suffocating them to many and leaving them in a very delicate situation. It's over. Here says the spokesperson for the People's Party that there is normality here; I say, yes, the one on the knee. The normality of blind and deaf absolutism that will become useless in coping with the greatest economic and social crisis in this country. Clearly there are very different models, but we have a very clear question: Galicia has to get out of this crisis, and unfortunately it won't come out if you don't recognize the mistakes, the problems and the enormous holes that leave some budgets that don't have a future project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Closure round, landlady and public administration councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u47	Thank you again, Mr. President. Mr. Knight, by manner of speaking, I shall now begin by answering some of the questions which you have raised; then to Mrs. Pontón. It's good this character of appropriation that some people have; I'm going to focus on some people. There's something I ought to be wrong about, because I don't know if the ones we're here think few people have happened before -- not better, eh! -- than me at the Economics College. Keynesian character, progressive government. Sometimes we made the biggest mistake, Mr. Puy, because, when you look a little at Keynes' biography, it turns out that the only party where Keynes militated was the British Liberal Party. And that sometimes there are some things I lose in the way, that appropriation: us progressives. Look, Mr. Knight, don't get close to what's not yours. Let's say there are two fundamental lines, because the other one since the late 1980s, with the fall of the Berlin Wall, although some of his fellows at the central level like it so much, has already been rejected for history, fortunately for the vast majority of us here. There are two fundamental lines: evolved neoclassics and Keynesian. Curiously, I repeat it to make it clear: Keynes, as a person, as a father of the creature, if in any party he militated, was in the British Liberal Party. I honestly promise you that at his time there was a party called Laborist, who won the elections even in 1944-1945. Anything you want, but don't get close to what you shouldn't. Don't get close because they have a very big tendency to get close to what they shouldn't. Cost priorities. Home!, that we discuss here the priorities of spending... there are three priorities of very clear spending, and that corresponds to their respective funds. First priority of expenditure: face with security to cover, with a size of EUR 503 million. Why 503 million euros? Because about 503 million euros, to serve health and public health, to meet our workers in the first impact, to care for families in the first impact on social policy, to attend education, is about 15% more than we're going to spend this year so hard, by having that accountant's accountant to what you referred to well done, and we know what size and where we're going. So, but since we don't have them all with us, because there's no -- and there's no match with Mrs. Pontón -- anyone who in prospective terms can say when we're going to end up falling and rising for next year, there's no one who can make sure that we're not going to have such an important health and socio-health impact and employment. So first priority, and a reasonable quantitative priority, and, as we don't all have them with us, that's why we have 33 million euros in what is called the strategic reserve. More prudent you can't be, more clearly you can't be, in him why things. React-EU Fund. Really, Mrs. Pontón, there is no incoherence. In fact, 10 billion euros for the autonomous communities, 12,000 and something, 2,000 million euros for the remaining ones — well left, I have to say — the Central Administration, because they are the guarantee of dealing with the new vaccines that will be in Spain. Perfect, 10 billion euros sharing from the React-EU Fund. 8,000 million euros, Mrs Pontón, are the ones that can budget autonomous communities in the year 2021. So there's 2,000 million euros left by the year 2022. And why by the year 2022? Because credits have to be spent and certificates — logical from European funds — in the years 2021, 2022 and 2023. Is that clear? So there's no incoherence. Incoherence is to make this a beautiful case, that's incoherence. Industrial policy. I don't know if there's a brilliant industrial policy. What if I know to tell you, Mr. Knight, Mrs. Pontón, is that they can ask our workers at the Sea of Lugo very well, they can ask very well any other worker, because they do know that the Council of Galicia is the first companion, indeed, in their interests, and you without appearing until the last hour, until the lateness; if not, look at what's going on with the electrointensives; it seems like a scandal to me. [[Murmurs.]] Like a scandal to me, again I think I can't call you an advanced student, because this changes every twenty-four hours. Look, as far as the two orders we have at the Employment Council were concerned, which ended the deadline by the 18th -- I think it was Friday -- these 200 and I'm going to pick a thousand, tell their amanuese that, please, the requests we have today -- or I am very wrong -- that we had Fridays, were about 28,000 to 29,000 of the group we had quite defaulted, were told autonomous in their part of the hostel, etc., etc. By the way, by the way, he didn't have the slightest doubt -- don't get nervous, Mr. Aranguena, because it's very easy to see if people got paid or not -- on Friday, what if I can assure you is that there were more than 8,000 or 9,000 self-employed people who have already charged 23,000. [[Mr. Arangüena Fernández pronounces words that are not perceived.]] That's what I'm telling you. [[Applause]] And today, that we're about 1,000 and peak, we're going to be a lot more; that is, one of their lies. And in the fiscal issue we're not wrong; in the fiscal question we run that view, and where you say it was progressing, the rich and such, this is an increase in generalized taxes; it's Robin Hood's inverse theory, they're acting at the central level -- and they want to do it but they can't do it autonomously -- leaving the generality to stay with everybody's funds, and you, in a way of illustrated despotism, say where to spend. We don't dedicate ourselves to that. The best money is in the hands of citizens and businesses. That's what we can say today. It doesn't shock at all, a very coherent reasoning, by the way. At the R+D+i I told you before they disagree, don't be sorry, we'd all like to have more. As in the subject of emigration, Mrs. Pontón. When again wins the Block as a match, wins the IGC where it is, there are certain mantras and there they are mantras in immigration. One of the two autonomous communities with less immigration, at the migration rate in Spain, is ours. It's undeniable, but let me get you talking about immigration. That means that whoever comes out -- and didn't want to come out -- turns out no. Quantitatively I repeat: in the Feijóo stage, of which you like to talk so much, there are 57,359 people who came to us more than they went. And of the boys, there's 30,387, and I don't get my glasses right now because the numbers are already big enough to look at them. No, it's a story they're saying, it's a story they're saying! [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] By the way, the year in which most people left Galicia, who more emigrated, having a very positive emigrant balance, but the more they left Galicia, it was in 2007, Bipartite: 17.292. [[Murmurs.]] Last year, so bad that we did it, it came out 14,847. Let's see, it's Sesame Quarter! 17.292 is more than 14.847. [[Laughter]] Let's be consistent, play, let's be consistent in arguments. I repeat — and I have heard many times in this parliament — that I will not be nor this government who does not say that in the matter of poverty and social exclusion there is always much to do, but the three objective measures we give ourselves, in comparison, all of them indicate that we are better than the rest of autonomous communities in relation to the average, each and every one of them. Now, can we be happy about that? No way, there's a lot left to do. Because it's like debt. Yes, I agree, that's why they're all very liberal, when it's to criticize the level of debt we have. No, no, no! [[Murmurs.]] Stay calm, Mrs. Pontón. I am strictly using the debt criterion defined by the BdE — Bank of Spain — which is how it is done and compared at European level. Don't play with the PFP. Because I repeat again — also very well indicated by Mr Puy earlier — that so far there were certain anathemas that we did not want to talk about, such as public-private collaboration. Public-private collaboration is a fundamental tool, and that's what we're dedicated to. And, by the way, no kind of occult, no kind of occult or program. There's a possibility of funding, ethereal if it depends on the central government; if it depended on an independent authority, as you're asking, I'd trust you a little more. But in the end, what has to be really big projects, tractors or not tractors, or medium size projects. What there has to be is good projects, because if there are good projects, they can finance, first with Europe, because if we depend on Madrid, we're on it! But there's a way to work, a way to explain and a way to prioritize. So I can't agree with you what you've been saying. I would like to end by saying that, apart from having the highest budgets in history, that we do not raise taxes, that there is record allocation for investment, that no autonomous community has the size we have in investments, historically, and we never put it in value, with the lowest interest in debt for twenty-five years. And also ahead: and throughout the legislation we don't exceed 100 million euros, for a structure made it right for us. Say financial ease, say market. That's how to act at your own time. The debt depends on the level or size, the ratio for payout that is ultimately contracted. In what? In a structure that has a kind of interest. I can assure you that we will not exceed 100 million euros throughout the legislation, because this legislation is a fund that you don't understand, but it is strategic to us, which was the third of the major priorities, which is the guarantee fund for health investments, because the best staff already have, and more than we have. The best infrastructures we almost have, and that's what we aspire to, and well-equipped, and that's why we're talking about at least 700 or 800 million euros, and that's why this appropriation, which you'll soon see increased. Because we, apart from speaking and being accountants, Mr. Gonzalo Caballero, as we preach with the example, and so we recognize the citizens afterwards. So let me remind you that these budgets that have these wishes also at the end -- and no one has spoken of it -- have 421 new public health squares, and I'm already referring to them. That's why it doesn't fit the message they're trying to move, both for the primary care plan and for a mental health plan, as for the Hado plan, as for specialized training, and now to count on more and more professionals, and more if we were allowed to enable them. That's where we always go. We have 1,350 new teacher squares. They didn't hear anyone talk about it. We have 389 forest firemen, ranging from 9 to 12, etc., etc., etc. This is what they contain, and they're saying no. Like, by the way, we also have 48 new courts in new courts, because also in Justice in civilized countries is what they measure, by a fairly well-equipped justice. That's what we've dedicated ourselves to, and always recognizing all the increments we've agreed on. I don't want to keep telling them all the desires we have. I have a relationship here that I can actually take ten minutes and tell them everything you can do here. In fiber optics, in 614 rural nuclei; it will seem little; it is that 614 is said with a joy that commands... We have 52% more in tourism to prepare the best Xacobeo, which has 86 million euros. Tourism is life, and we have to do it better and with a level of guarantee. [[Murmurs.]] They don't complain, it's not tourism versus industry, there may be both. It's the normal thing for both things, it's either A or B, or dad or mom, no, sometimes... it's amazing. [[Laughter]] We triple funding in pemes, and then we have to wake up. Well, but it's okay, it's 187 million euros that we have for pemes. The Galician Innovation Agency has the highest budget, 127 million, and there's someone who's still talking about 2008 and 2009. It's just amazing. We multiply by five the power efficiency aids. 8 million for Ifevi, once you've already solved problems that didn't depend on us. We did it again, didn't we? Etc., etc., etc. EUR 131 million for housing access policies. New bioresidue plants in the provinces of Pontevedra, Ourense, Lugo. 25 million. Isn't that a green and circular economy? Is that not a priority: putting numbers on things? We completed the modernization of public transport with 133 million, the New People's card with universal guarantee for children under 21. We've enabled road performances on the paved track, in Nadela-Sarria, in Tui-A Guarda... only as examples. Isn't that economic dynamism, Mr. Gonzalo Caballero? We have increased 27% of the resources for the cultural sector. Do we have to apologize again? We devote 31% more to the functioning of educational centres, as never before, EUR 84 million. We increased 90% of the strength of the solidary book fund. We apologize for that too, it's 15 million euros. In employment, in inclusive employment in people with disabilities or risks, we're betting as never before, we've included 30 million euros for equality policies, 10% more than we had in 2020, which we've been growing since 2017. We're sorry too. We've increased 16% of the resources to fight against gender-based violence to 23 million, just like no other community practically. We're sorry too. We have increased by 130% — 200 million — the renewal of our health infrastructures, by 130%! And again we've also increased 108% of primary care centers. Don't tell me that 108% is less than 130%, which is relative level loss, because it doesn't look at everything that's done. It's just that it's amazing at times how we play with numbers. We strengthen social policy with the greatest investment in history. We have increased the EUR 225 million for social services centres. The home help service reaches up to EUR 84 million, at least 10% more. To take care of what? 30,000 new people. That's what budgets really go to: people, businesses, workers, economic dynamisation, and therefore both in the short term and in the future. Etc., etc. EUR 80 million for preventive actions and potential infrastructures. And I, let me tell you, because I also agree with the counselor, and also with Miguel, as we truly love the people of Ourense, because it is an honor to speak from an integral center of the fight against fire, which is the important one, in Toén. [[Mr Martínez García points to Mr President.]] Because some people even like us Ourense. Let's hear one of Cangas talk to them so they can look at our territorial balance policy! [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] Or increase the 100 million euros we have for the improvement of the marine-fishing sector, or a 40% increase in ports for infrastructure operations. That's what you're telling him you're not, and that's what we have to look at. So I think we have different budget logics. I do believe that it is possible to reach consensus, starting with the consensus. I think we started very well with this committee in Parliament. I think good ideas can come out there. We don't put red lines on some of them, neither Mrs. Pontón nor Mr. Caballero. There's no need to refuse. All we ask is dialogue, reasoning and, where appropriate, consensus. That's what we asked for. Those EUR 115 million don't exist in any community in Spain that has them. Theme number one. We could set a very good example. Theme number two. If we compare this -- the 115 -- with some budgets where you have responsibilities in Galicia, there are deputations or municipalities, which are all historical, expansive and so on, it can't stand the step of the rag; it can't really stand. These are other magnitudes, and these are the magnitudes that can really lead us to try to do something different, because our citizens deserve it. They stay very hard months, we hope they're less and less hard, but we're sure we're not working with so many rough things, everyone can thank us for that. You don't just have to have ideas, you have to have ideas and financial support. That's what these budgets have, even to change. That's what we're dedicated to. I really wish them a good job and they can improve these budgets. Everything's better, in this case a little harder is to improve them, eh! Thank you very much, and see you later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u48	Thank you, Counselor, for making a gentle and interesting debate on something that was presumed to be far-sighted. Thank you for doing this. We're going to vote, and we're going to do it together. Vote for amendments to the total claiming the overall refund of budgets or of any section or expenditure manager presented to the draft general budget law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the year 2021
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u49	We voted on amendments to the whole of Group I, amendments which have been made by parliamentary groups, both those which demand the global return of budgets and the return of any section or centre of expenditure manager. We voted for the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the amendments of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. We vote. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u50	And before we suspended the sitting, which we would resume at 4 p.m., there was a moment when we promised or sworn to Members and Members in this parliament, and they did so today, and I remember that today, on 21 December 1980, we have submitted to referenda the forthcoming Statute of autonomy of Galicia. It ended, with the popular verdict issued that day in the polls, the first phase of the long road traveled through Galicia to provide a legal framework underpinning its political autonomy and that in later times it was gradually developing but as solid as in the more consolidated democracies. By recalling the XL anniversary of the approval of the present Statute of autonomy, we pay tribute to all the people who gave themselves in body and soul to the elaboration of this statutory text and drew up all kinds of traps before being plebiscite. And we also pay tribute, of course, to those who offered the best of themselves in the conformation of the various proposals drawn up in the 1930s of the last century and who culminated in the referendum held on June 28, 1936. Unfortunately, the outbreak of the Civil War prevented the completion of that statute in the Courts. However, the seed that fell asleep during the dictatorship ended up offering its fruit, although serodium, in the form of constitutional recognition to our condition of historical nationality. Allow me, before concluding, to invite your lordships to reflect on how much, with everyone's competition, Galicia has advanced in the various areas in these forty years of the vigil of our Statute. Spain and Galicia have gone through these four decades the period of greater economic growth and social stability throughout our millennium history. To continue walking along this path to continue to provide our greatest people with welfare quotas is possible, but it is also an undeniable obligation for all of us who exercise public responsibilities, including those who have the honour to be part of this chamber. If Galicia owns and exercises full autonomy, with its own self-government institutions, including this parliament — which will celebrate forty years of life within a year — it is a consequence of the Statute that we commemorate today. We must always remember it and very especially today. Thank you very much for listening to me. [[Applause]] We suspended until 4:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u51	Good afternoon. Debates and votes on amendments to the whole amending the overall budget account or transferring appropriations between sections
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u52	We resumed the meeting with the debate and vote on Group 2 amendments, which are those that change the overall accounts of budgets or transfer appropriations between sections. There is amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. For the defence of amendments, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo has the floor by the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u53	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, Mr. Martínez. Today we are in the most important debate of the year, since budgets are the document reflecting the political priorities of the Government, as well as the resources intended to meet those political priorities. This isn't a year like another. We are suffering the most dramatic situation known since the Civil War; a pandemic that has changed our lives abruptly since its declaration on 11 March this year, triggering a health crisis that has been associated with an economic crisis and a social crisis of unknown dimensions so far. Since then, these budgets, Mr. Counsellor, should not be like any other. They should be budgets where people were at the heart of public policies. Because in the face of the deep crisis situation that we are living in, without the impulse of administrations, without a determined commitment from the Galician Union, for many Greeks and for many Greeks to come out of this triple crisis will be very difficult, and for some people, without that help, it will be impossible. You bring us some lazy budgets here today, some expansive budgets in money, but you continue in projects and programs, which do not meet the new needs of the pandemic. You come here and boast that this budget project is the highest in history, which increases by 13.3% over 2020, that is, 1,575 million euros more to develop public policies in our territory. An ambitious budget project on alien income, but restrictive in the Galician Union itself. Budgets that grow thanks to state funds and funds from the European Union, funds that come to this budget project thanks to the bet from the first moment of the Government of the State, the Government of Pedro Sánchez, so that no one will be left behind. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I must remind you, Mr Counsellor, that while President Sánchez was negotiating these funds within the European Union, those of his party, his colleagues in Europe, boycotted those incomes so that they wouldn't reach our country, so they wouldn't come to these budgets, the budgets that you bring here today. It's a disgraceful attitude and unprecedented political weakness. [[Applause]] I ask you, what would happen if your party's attempts in the European Union had been fruitful and these funds had not reached these budgets, Counsellor? Tell all the Greeks and all the Greeks. I've asked him once again and I'm waiting for his answer. Because the complicit government silence Feijóo was also guilty of this attempt to boycott those funds. Counsellor, the German Government, while boasting of the expansion of budgets, criticizes the Government of Pedro Sánchez, making him guilty of all evil. Look, just be clear, because both statements in the same speech are incompatible. They say they work in collaboration with all public administrations, with the Government of the State, with the deputies and with the municipalities, to get out as quickly as possible of this health, economic and social crisis, because for that they were voted to the Greeks and the Greeks a few months ago. They give up the partisan trump and meet the needs of people. Counsellor, you are bringing a draft budget that devastates the historic opportunity to provide these funds that come from the European Union and come from the state; funds that are essential to change the action of the Government of Greece for eleven years, essential to lay the foundations for change in the productive structure of Galicia, essential for strengthening public services, essential for the social reconstruction of our country. You present today an opaque budget project in which there are plenty of generic games that prevent transparent information required by the Transparency Act and in the spirit of trying to steal the debate from the opposition parties. You're talking about hand-held budgets, but the reality is that they've never come near this political party at any time to consensualize something about this project. And we'll see the amendments that accept us; if it's like in previous years, none, zero. You say something to then do the opposite. Mr Martínez, the Socialists today bring here to this plenary assembly a amendment, a amendment in which we take into account the 1,341 men and women who have lost their lives in our Galicia as a result of the cowardice-19, in which we take into account the suffering of their families, a amendment in which we take into account those who are suffering from this disease, and we also take into account those who are suffering the consequences of this pandemic on the economic aspect and also on their social aspect. We tabled an amendment that would increase the total amount of budgets from the Autonomous Community of Galicia to 2021 to EUR 13,600 million, i.e. 15% more than the previous year. An amendment in which we propose a policy of non-conformist and more progressive income, which has nothing to do with that falsely unfounded warning that you manifested today in the morning saying that we want to raise taxes to all Greeks. We tabled an amendment for the Galician Union not to give up, as it has been usual, increasing its own incomes, to help with these resources the most disadvantaged by this pandemic, with a more supportive view of society as a whole, so that those who earn much more, who receive millionsary inheritances and who use the resources of all and of all will have to provide more resources so that we can all get out of this crisis together. At the same time, we socialists are proposing to improve management, strengthen the fight against tax fraud and reduce unproductive expenditure. In our amendment, we estimate a gap in the provision of income that must be used basically to promote public policies to set population, the fight against unemployment and work precariousness, to focus social spending, to prevent the deterioration of fundamental public services, to improve our environment and to promulgate actions in the productive and industrial field. Look, Counselor, we socialists think of the Greeks and the Greeks who lost their lives as a result of the coward-19 and those who are suffering from illness, firmly betting on health. Mr. Martínez, I ask you: did you not understand this pandemic? Are they still unaware that eleven years of cuts in Welsh public health have consequences on the lives of the Greeks and the Greeks? [[Applause]] You bring in some accounts where health increases less than the global increase in the budget, almost two points less, and you lose relative weight within the total budget for 2021. But it's just that if we look at those programs that all experts point to as much as necessary, like primary care, because it turns out it only grows by 7.46%, that is, 44% less than the total increase in accounts. Mr Counsellor, in the face of the indolence of your accounts, the Socialists tabled an amendment in which the budget for public health would increase in the same proportion as the budget as the budget as a whole, bringing more than 121 million net — net — more to health, 74 million euros of these net for primary care. The Socialists, with this amendment, have expressed with resources our unequivocal commitment to public, universal, quality, and free health care, which is based on primary care, which increases the number of professionals with high quality employment, which shields health services to all persons who have the right, regardless of where they reside, financially equipping a number of infrastructures in the area of health that have been pending for years. An amendment that activates action plans not contemplated or insufficiently provided by the Galician Union, such as the Mental Health Plan, the promotion of healthy habits or a program of fight against gambling addiction. Counsellor, the socialists also think of the children and children of Galicia, proposing an amendment that guarantees the right to universal education, free and quality, regardless of the economic capacity and the place where they live, as well as to meet the challenge of digitization for all of them and for all of them. Therefore, in the face of some accounts that do not bet on reverse those eleven years of government's education cuts, some accounts in which education increases half as much as the increase in the budget as a whole and which also loses relative weight in the budget set for this year 2021, the Socialists bring an amendment that would increase the budget in education by 113 million euros, with the necessary allocation to increase the staff frame with quality employment, increasing the staffing for school lunches and preventing school dropouts; betting on digitization, providing all the student with the necessary tools for anyone to be left behind because of the lack of technological resources; placing resources so that all the student who is enrolled in the university does not pay the first enrollment; increasing the scholarships for university students; encouraging the I+D+i university; re-enacting and improving other educational centres, the educational centres for special education, and the centres of formal education; increasing the student's, or without normalization. Socialists also think of the people and companies suffering from this pandemic in their economic aspect, in view of the budgeting project of the Galician Union, which lacks strategy and commitment on the modernization and empowerment of the Galician productive sectors, which does not take on the challenges of the ecological transition or digitization and does not change their inaction in the area of industrial policy, and which also reduces shares to fix population in rural areas; a project of budgets which refuses to put on the resources necessary for our productive fabric to withstand during this time so much difficulties, namely the sectors of hospitality, leisure, the world of culture, commerce, autonomous persons and small and medium-sized enterprises; a project of the Galician Union budgeting project that for the promotion of employability and professional training of unemployed increases respectively by 2.92 % and 1.24%, while in the employment development program, employment, employment, employment, employment and employment with important boosting. But it's just that, Counselor, just by budgeting the games, if there's no change in strategy, it's not enough, because in this tenth legislation for this game that they increase considerably you left without running nearly 450 million euros. [[Applause]] In the face of this ongoing project of the Galician Union, we socialists present an amendment that creates new games and increases others, so that autonomous people can continue their activity, to avoid closure of businesses, to prevent the destruction of jobs, to what we propose to create a plan for a fair energy transition, aid to a smaller dependence on carbonization, to provide a share for actions in the field of electrointensive industries, an action plan for the viability of firms in crisis, to boost business soil, to create an investment capture plan and a management plan for rural business development, and to increase budget allocations that will allow the abandonment of the Galician Union for eleven years in relation to R & D+i. To increase the stakes so that technological deployment is finally a reality in our country; an explosion that has been continuously postponed by this government, reaching a digital divide that polarizes us as a society and that has been further evidenced during the months of confinement and mobility restrictions, when a part of the student of Galicia could not develop his classes on line, essentially those we live in rural, and a part of the workers could not join the telework so that they could continue their work development as well. The Socialists propose in our amendment to provide a quality employment plan, agreed with the other administrations and with social and economic agents, which deepens the causes of unemployment in our community and corrects the huge failure of government employment policy Feijóo over these eleven years, which, as much as you say today in the morning — and today I don't have much more time — did not allow to recover the level of busy population that was in 2009. And I remind you that we have lost over 96,000 people; and that also counts on the fees, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u54	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u55	And they didn't prevent the level of precarious work in our country, creating the poor working class, and that year after year they have a low and very low, embarrassing level of execution. On the other hand, the Socialists propose a employment plan that is funded financially for active employment policies, which prioritizes youth employment and the return of the people of Greece who reside outside. Programs Directed...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u56	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u57	...—I have already finished, Mr President, let me finish this paragraph—the long-term unemployed people who have already exhausted their benefits, a plan that will enhance women's employment and reduce the labour gap and a plan that will support the councils as job boosters and also strengthen employment offices. As time is short, I'll try to finish my intervention on the second shift. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We moved on to the next amendment group. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, you have the floor of Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u59	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Good afternoon, Counselor. Since the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, we have tabled this amendment to the whole of the Budget Project to show that they are not up to the great challenge facing our country, to show that it does not take necessary measures to be the great bench it needs at this time Galicia and its social majority to get out of the crisis we are already in and build a new economic and social model that overcomes the weaknesses and inequalities, the ones it generated and those that were already before the collapse of the pandemic in our world. Because the fact is that the coward-19 has placed Galicia and the whole world at a crossroads. So today we are debating something deeper than the processing of more budgets. Today we play that there is a roadmap leading to a fair and Welsh output, thought from our abilities and our potential, or a repetition of the previous failed recipes. We play to do something different or to watch as spectators to the same centralist and neoliberal policies that have been implemented in the past and that have had a brutal result: less employment, less quality, bottlenecking of the productive sectors, entire generations emigration, the dissolution of the financial system and a profound process of political re-centralisation, but also economic, and some consequences that have to be said, have not left us greater resistance to the collapse of the vault but quite the opposite. And in the morning we were attributed to the opposition saying the same and the opposite at the same time. I'll try to be clear. We have not observed the slightest correction in this project. It is clear that the People's Party has already adopted a roadmap, as unilateral as predictable, which is to maintain the firm pace of the emptying of public services, the renunciation of active intervention in the economy and self-government. By setting examples, in this budget, as we already indicated in the morning and in other debates, there is no movement in fiscal policy, no public participation in the strategic sectors. After offering medals to the professionals who have fought most against the pandemic in these budgets, there is no bet either for increasing labour or social rights, or for shielding public services. Nor do you take care of the emergencies of the most drowning sectors that are on the brink of ruin, nor do you take one of the indisputable lessons that this pandemic leaves, which is that the bet on science and research has to be at the centre to make us stronger. So our conclusion is that these budgets are a very bad news for our country. And in the face of budgets that are a cluster of lost opportunities, because we reflect on our amendment, our amendment to our whole amendment, a proposal for different incomes and priorities, mobilizing 1,600 million euros to do something else. As far as income is concerned, we are clear, Mr. Martínez. In the morning he said we didn't say it clearly, I'll try to make it clear. These are going to be the only expansive budgets of the legislation, with extraordinary funds, but the problems of the coward and our country won't unfortunately end in 12 months and the forecast is that more income will be needed later. So we say it very clearly: you have to raise taxes, of course, yes, but to whom you have the most, to redistribute with whom you have the least. It's that simple, Mr. Martínez and what we propose in our amendment is to take advantage of the margin given by self-government to us to introduce greater progressivity; a self-government, indeed indeed, thanks to a statute, but to a statute that was not interrupted by a Civil War, which was interrupted by a military uprising, and we owe all the people, men and women who died for it, not to rewrite history. [[Applause]] There is an undeniable need — as I say — to increase your own income and, above all, more than nothing, to redistribute wealth, which during the financial crisis has been irregularly distributed. So we include measures to provide greater progress in the IRPF, wealth tax and also in successions and prayers. And of course we have to. The best example for us that still in an unprecedented economic crisis you are still installed to dominate more than anyone else has about what is least in this context is that they are still forced to exempt from paying a single penny to those who inherit a million euros, Mr. Martínez. We say this clearly: it seems to us an aberration, it seems to us absolutely scandalous in this economic context. And to put things in context too, a million euros, for example, is what they increase within the social policy game a specific plan to fight economic inequality. It is regrettable that a government who knows that in the closure of 2019 had nearly a quarter of our country's population at risk of exclusion and poverty is more concerned with maintaining this status quo than with obtaining more resources through the tax route so that we can beat those who have less. We, of course, do not attribute it to your interpretation of Keynesianism, but it is clear that it is another measure of wild capitalism and that it will certainly not count on the support of the Galician Nationalist Block, and we will work to offer an alternative and also develop our own taxes. Because, indeed, tax policy serves to achieve amounts that can transfer public policies, but tax policies also serve to model society, and Galicia that wants the BNG is sitting on the pillars of social justice, health and sustainability. So we propose to record large commercial areas, sugared drinks, empty housing and new environmental taxes. And I would also like to leave here one last reflection on income and insist on an issue that also emerged during the budgetary debate. It seems alarming to us that you assume a framework in which we have to accept that the Central Government is transferring to this country of the counties it is already distributing from European funds a smaller amount than we weigh by population. Just as we find it alarming that the Socialist Party is coming here to say that we have to thank Pedro Sanchez for this debate. Of course, we appeal once again to each other to stop doing a centralist clamp and add to the BNG in this demand. The minimum of that count has to be the population weight. [[Applause]] As far as spending priorities are concerned, we have put on three very clear lines, which for us are not collected in these budgets, as much as you have applied a lot of cosmetic policy in the name of the games or in the rearrangement of some of the expenses. First, take care of the emergencies for anyone to stay behind; secondly, shield public services; thirdly, wager for science and innovation for a change of production model. We understand that, first of all, we need to address the emergencies of many sectors and collectives that are with water at the neck and that no one is left behind, and to that end we propose to mobilise more than 125 million euros in different plans that help different groups, mostly characterised by autonomous and autonomous, who have been neglected by the Government of Greece for eight months of pandemic. Because of social pressure, you started to move something, but it's still insufficient. We need more resources so that this piar of our economy can survive this fight. And we also introduced other measures for sectors that need a boost, such as a reorientation of the tourism model, because reducing everything to Jacob was short-sighted yesterday, but of course in this situation of Galicia hideaway is directly suicidal. We also introduce measures for proximity trade and proposals to address other emergencies, for example housing. There's a big housing problem in our country. Today's a luxury. It's not a right. More than a quarter of the Galician homes devote more than 30% of the rents that enter the rent, and therefore we propose to give an ambitious response through a housing security plan for people in a situation of economic precariousness, which we know will be increasing, also increasing the public housing park for rent and mobilizing empty housing. And among the emergencies, we also understand that they have to be, specifically, with names and surnames, these social groups that are paying the most for this crisis, such as youth or women, for what we propose specific action plans. And we also insist on shielding resources against masculine violence, because we know that every economic crisis is questioning the rights that feminism has achieved, and we will not allow this to be a new opportunity for a revival of the patriarchate. Secondly, we propose to shield public services, because you actually say one thing in the press notes, but then in the budget letter another appears. And you can't sell some budgets whose average health and education increase under the average with social budgets. That's what we'll say until satiety in this debate. We propose a rearrangement of expenditure and also address aspects that give us the feeling that they are not well cared for as they should. In this sense, we propose to mobilise more than 600 million euros to mark priorities that are absent in this project, a contingency plan to ensure continuity and equity in health care, both for the patients I care for and for other pathologies, and to eliminate waiting lists. We also propose a new primary care model, because if anything has shown this crisis it's necessary, and a strategy to eliminate the precariousness of staff. We insist on other absences, such as one that you have not been able to deny in the debate in the morning: a real plan of mental health care. Because -- we insist -- there is a scientific consensus that the fourth vacancy that will live our country through the coronavirus will be the vacancy of mental health, and in these budgets there is no adequate resources to meet a need that is neither new nor the first time that we or the collectives in the matter put on the table. So we understand that in this matter you must stop practicing negationism and take care of some of our amendments. The chapter on services and social policy is also fundamental to us, because there is no reorientation of the model to follow in these budgets. That's very worrisome, because if anything did this cowardly crisis was to highlight that a model that has turned care into business and overexploiting workers, mostly women, in these areas is not sustainable and needs a change of direction. We can't leave the aspects that have caused the most damage, and so in our amendments a new residence model is materialized and also the dignity of the home help service. We also bet on measures to curb the impoverishment of groups that are very vulnerable, such as those of the people who collect non-contributory pensions and whose autonomic supplement must be increased. And finally, thirdly, in the economic field we all and all should be aware that these should be the budgets of a strategic change, which does not even appear here. We propose to bet on science and innovation towards a change of production model, because in this pandemic we have indeed seen the strength of those countries that had previously waged for innovation and science. We saw that they gave a better response to the pandemic, that they had less economic resentment and that they have in their societies also less inequality. And, therefore, you have to go there and you have to go to the budgets, which you have to do — that is yes — an amendment to all of your previous eleven years. And that's why we propose an increase in investment, tools to retain and capture talent, and shield a Greek pact for science, which should mark as an objective reaching as soon as possible 2.5 % of the gross domestic product; by the way, a goal that in some of the plans you signed your side councillor would appear announced but then the economic policies they arbitrate would not be in that direction. And if something has also shown the industrial crisis that our country was experiencing, before the outbreak of the cowardly crisis, that pre-existing industrial crisis, is that the path of deregulation and abandonment of the public, of the strategic sectors, was an absolute failure that led us to a model of enclave that only brought precariousness, policing, looting and precariousness. Today we can talk about Alcoa, the Bridges, the Ferroatlantics, many companies in our country, which all have in common today that are in such a serious crisis is by a model that has learned from public resources the private without public control. Because, in fact, you were talking about public-private collaboration in the morning. But one thing is public-private collaboration and another thing is that the public disagrees about what happens in the private framework. And that's what happened in some of these cases, and that's why Galicia today pays the consequences. In view of that, we bet on a model change, we bet — and you know — on public participation in the strategic sectors. Sectors like naval or energy sectors can't be divorced from our country's public agenda and its industrial agenda. We're also betting on a Greek reindustrialization and closure strategy for productive cycles in our country, and we also insist on a key aspect. We're at a crucial moment. We've just met the ERE sentence of Alcoa, but the court won't guarantee the continuity of production and jobs. The only solution — we continue to insist — is public intervention. They take that frame and you put it on your side too. We also demand it in the process of State budgets, we demand it in the context of Congress of Members and Members, but they have something to do with them since the Galician Union. They approve an amendment to be part of that public participation process and do so that the balance is tilted and there may be a solution in Alcoa. And finally, along with the pandemic of the coward, he also walks another pandemic that we cannot deny, which is the pandemic of the climate crisis that our planet suffers. So we are committed to revitalizing the traditional productive sectors, modernizing them, agriculture and also the sea, by the innovative transformation and the promotion of native timber and the multifunctional betting against the model of the looting for Ence, and also by gear exchange measures geared towards a plan of action for the preservation of biodiversity and the fight against the environmental crisis, where of course a Welsh strategy for composting and an agency of waste and composting, against the Sogama model, must be absolute priorities. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, what we are presenting is a battery of amendments that combine two very clear issues: emergencies and broad lights for a strategic model change.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u60	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u61	We are playing right now that you come out of your sovereignty and that this country can take advantage of an unprecedented opportunity to convert this crisis as well as an opportunity to change for a more just model for Galicia and for the majority of its societies. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u62	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. Martínez García has the floor below.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u63	Thank you, Mr. President. This morning we had the opportunity to debate and confront models of economic policy, and obviously we have very different positions, with different intensity, either for Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo or for Mrs Presas. Much of your speech — quite freely — has to do with the debate in the morning rather than with the amendments we have to make this afternoon. I don't know if they consider that in the morning their row bosses have done very well, but be careful also with appreciation, don't they? Because, obviously, I cannot amend myself in what I commented today morning and my words will have to do with their amendments presented at this time. I think it's logical that we have different models, and it doesn't have to be incompatible with the effort to bring up postures in order to enrich the project we have on this camera. Of course, in advance, we want to reach agreements, and I think this morning's debate has become clear. I repeat for the first time something very dear to this one who speaks to them, as is the Consensus Fund, but, of course, after analyzing our teams at the Business and Public Administration Council the cross-sectional amendments of the opposition groups — I am sure I will stick to this first part — it is very difficult to reach agreements, since they are based on assumptions that cannot be met. I'll explain. There are objective reasons why we cannot accept most of your proposals from the German Government, most of your proposals, because some of your proposals are impossible to implement, because they remove finalist games that cannot be used in the alternative proposal they make. In other cases they eliminate projects or resources necessary for the operation of the Administration and the provision of services. And, of course, I once again formulate in parliamentary headquarters that we do not agree to raise taxes, to create new ones, even without explaining their role and how they achieve the supposed collection they claim. Ladies and gentlemen, we have different models, and one of the great discrepancies on our part is the way opposition groups want to have more income. It's surprising that both the BNG and the PSdEG want to raise taxes to the Greeks, when we have an budget that goes up to nearly 1,500 million euros, in which the non-financial expenditure grows very close to 14% and the investment makes 53%. Do you really think this is the time to raise taxes to the Greeks? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And more surprising it turns out that socialists and nationalists present the same recipes in a year when the economy grew forcefully than for a year as exceptional as this one, in which we are in the middle of a pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, in my view they only have one proposal: more taxes for the Greeks when things go well and more taxes for the Greeks when there are so many difficulties like at this time. Therefore, the Greek Government cannot accept its amendments, and our model is obviously the opposite: lower taxes whenever we can and, in any case, avoid them, as we do in the budget for the next 2021. In addition, we also choose to include in budgets only the income we are sure to perceive, and, in the case of any reasonable doubt, we are prudent in our forecasts, as in the case of the React-EU funds; we may receive more; there is no doubt that we will gladly include them as soon as we are sure of this. So let's go for the kid. The voice of the PSdEG, from the very first moment, I tell you that we are not going to accept that you want to raise taxes on the Greeks and the Greeks in more than 200 million, because the Socialists' proposals in tax matters are limited to creating new tax figures, increasing the taxation of existing figures, and the German Government — straight — does not consider this to be the time to raise taxes, curiously like the vast majority of countries and regions in the European Union. Moreover, we have decided to consolidate the most important tax reductions that we have approved since 2016, and those that have already benefited — as it pointed out this morning — more than 568,000 Greeks and Greeks, and that next year will benefit 115,000 other people, without taking into account the autonomic downs of our IRPF. Precisely, in the field of IRPF, we refuse that the Greeks pay 20.4 million more. They propose to increase the autonomous scale for bases above 50,000 euros, without fixing it, so we can't know how they calculate their impact. Do you really think from the PSdEG that from 50,000 euros a citizen is rich? Anyone with a base of 50,000 euros and two or three kids has the category rich for the PSdeG? Look, in June we approved in 2016 a reduction in the autonomic section of the IRPF, maintaining the existing progressivity and lowering this tax to 98.5% of the taxpayers, and with a raise to high incomes — it's all said—. That's what we believe to be progressive. We also refuse to raise another 28.1 million euros in property tax to the Greeks. In this case, we remember, on the one hand, that this community lacks regulatory competence to change the amount exempt from habitual housing, which, as you will know, is currently set at EUR 300,000 per declarant. And, on the other hand, to point out that Galicia currently has the prevailing rate in the state which is exactly the same as the two-party government applied between 2005 and 2009. Does it look like it was worth it before and not now? Similarly, we refuse to increase the collection of inheritance taxes by 65 million euros and to increase the tax on documented capital transmissions and legal acts by 21 without a basis for this quantification. You say these calculations are based on the figures of the known liquidations of previous periods and taking into account their foreseeable evolution in a context where the alive and curfew-derived inheritances are possible. As for the liquidation figures, which are already known as the year, I have to make a clarification, which is already recurrent, because they make this inaccuracy every year. We're talking about net recognized rights and in that amount amounts are also included amounts from previous years, either because the Tax Administration has granted an approval or fractionation of income, either because that income was suspended, or because it is in voluntary period of payment, which, as established by the autonomous regulations, is cancelled at the end of the exercise. With regard to the inheritances in life, which have existed in our Civil Law Act since 1995, it is no novelty to its taxation, it is foreseen in the impact of the tax of successions and prayers. In this case — I told you this in the morning — I hope that the Socialist Party will support the Government if an attack on our financial autonomy takes place and these alive inheritances are penalized in the IRPF. With regard to property transmission tax and documented legal acts, as reflected in the revenue memory delivered to this chamber, the forecasts of economic developments arising from the curfew-19 are already being taken into account, especially in the first four-five months of the next exercise. And we also reject the Galician Socialist Party's proposal to create new own taxes to raise 29 million euros. The Socialist Group proposes three new taxes: on large commercial surfaces, on installations that affect the environment such as telephony and telematics and the lines of transport of electricity and, ultimately, on the emission of harmful gases to the atmosphere. Before entering each of them, the first thing I want to point out is that the initiative to create new taxes should not be taken lightly, because every proposal must be accompanied by a justification and an analysis of its implications. They intend to collect 4.5 million with the start of an autonomous tax on the large surfaces and they don't say how they calculate that figure or what model they want, to know whether the Supreme Court could indicate that we are facing a state council, questioned — as they well know — by the European Union. They also intend to collect 18 million euros with taxes on installations affecting the environment — as I said before — such as telephony, telematics, new lines of transport and electricity. In this case, we also don't know how they calculate that amount. So — and in terms compared to other autonomies that have implanted it, it's called Asturias, Rioxa, Estremadura or Canarias, although in the latter its application is suspended — with the tax rates approved the collection would range from 1 to 2.2 million euros, so obviously it does not seem advisable to establish a new tax on this count. In addition, it must be borne in mind that, given the latest rulings of the Supreme Court, it must be assessed whether it is appropriate to establish tax figures which can finally be passed on to the final consumer. It doesn't contain with us for that. And they intend to raise 6.5 million with a tax on the emission of harmful gases to the atmosphere. Once again, we don't know how they are calculated, nor is it clear what harmful gases are intended to be recorded. In any case, two questions in this regard: first, Galicia already has its own tax on polluting substances to the atmosphere, and we are applying it since 1996, the tax on air pollution (ICA); and second, the application of the taxable act of the ICA to any of the other substances recorded in other autonomous communities would not report at all a figure as they propose. It must be borne in mind that the current collection of the ICA is around EUR million. We also reject the moment when they propose the current recording of uses of corred water to raise 6.5 million euros. Its formulation does not take into account the nature of the engraving, because it is an environmental tax, an extra fiscal tribute directed at the correction and compensation of the environmental impact. Therefore, it cannot be modified solely for purposes of collection. On the improvement of collection management and the reinforcement of the fight against tax fraud, they estimate an increase in joint revenue for both proposals but do not detail their amount again. Unless we take into account in the anti-fraud section the departure of 12 million to fines and tax penalties, as you will understand, we cannot assess whether their calculations are correct. What I would like to point out is that the Galician Union, within its competences, has been pushing the fight against tax fraud since 2009 and we have strengthened it with the creation of our Galician Tax Agency. In this sense, only last year at Atriga has been able to raise 107.8 million undeclared debt thanks to fiscal control actions. Finally, we reject the increase in gambling activity tax for 5.25 million euros. We can't enter it when we can't find any explanation as to how to apply it. In any case, the collection derived from the tax rates on the game has been maintained over time and this year they have been severely affected by the pandemic, since the measures taken to handle it included closings of places where this game activity is being developed, as well as restrictions on exits after the closing orders have been lifted. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSdeG, except for the latter about gambling activities, their fiscal proposals are practically the same, a cut and catch amounts of them last year. Do you really think the situation is the same when the coronavirus changed everything completely? As for the minorities, I'll explain why they can't be done as far as they propose. Some of the amendments are simply impossible to accept, because they cannot be put into practice, because they reduce shares financed mostly from European funds or final funds from the state, which cannot be used for the alternative they propose. Other amendments, by reducing operating expenses, already very adjusted, cannot be dealt with, because they would make it difficult for public attention and service to citizenship. It is also — and as we have already commented today in the morning — that it is customary for them to claim to reduce the cost of staff eventually. We know they always make this proposal, but it's just that, coming from the PSdEG, it's really amazing, you know, a little bit! In 2009 in Galicia they constituted the most expensive government in history, and this very year in central government the PSOE again constitutes the most expensive government in the history of Spain. But let's go to the data. Do you know how much we've saved since 2009 in high office and possible personnel? For almost 110 million euros, and calculated in nominal terms. And even for 2021, twelve years ago, spending on high office and eventual staff is much less than you spent on the two-party government, in particular 26.4% lower. I'm therefore surprised at the position of the PSdEG because they ask just the opposite of what they do. It's also recurrent that they ask us to reduce expenses in splits we've allocated less than half of the previous Government. Again, I remind you of updated data: office material expenditure, which we have downloaded by more than 55 per cent since 2009; spending on protocol care, which we have reduced by more than 51 per cent; spending on meetings, conferences and courses, which have decreased by more than 48 per cent; spending on advertising and propaganda, which has been reduced by almost 56 per cent. I don't think any more examples are needed. And let's see now how they increase their proposed expenditure. One of the most surprising issues is that the PSdEG does not want to leave the Government of Greece no room for manoeuvre at a time when the pandemic causes us to continually have to strengthen certain spending shares. In this sense, it is surprising that they are apart from the financial reserve of the Covid Fund of EUR 33 million, designed precisely to cover any contingency. If you already assign this reservation to specific games, you delete this possibility. One more year, in his pursuit of leaving the minimum fund of continence of health, he reduces it to his vast majority. Again they want to avoid any unforeseeable maneuver margin. But the most surprising thing is that they also want to limit the margin of manoeuvre for parliamentary groups, economic and social agents and the Committee of Economic Experts, with the elimination of a large part of the Consensus Fund, precisely reserved for the agreement. Does this mean that the Socialist Party is already moving ahead with the rest of this chamber's parliamentary groups that you just have no desire to reach agreements to include investment projects consistent with next year's budgets? I think it would be irresponsible. On the other hand, in their amendments they reiterate a wrong procedure, as it is to minimize the transfers of certain public entities, but then do not diminish their budget in the same county. In this sense, they are also incongruent, because they propose to eliminate almost completely transfers to Galician waters and ports of Galicia, but in other amendments they propose various initiatives to finance investments in these organisms. What are we left with? It's very much called attention that they virtually reduce all of their games dedicated to packaging and improvements in roads. Don't you want me to fix it? And they eliminate energy efficiency actions in public, administrative, school and health centers. Uocommitment to the ecological transition? Sometimes, in the spirit of wanting to share and singularize projects in certain municipalities, without entering to value viability and specific needs, they do the easiest thing: they put the same amount in several municipalities. Thus, they allocate EUR 400,000 to each health centre, propose EUR 300,000 at each day center, make up EUR 200,000 for each child school. Life is not complicated. Is that your logic of assignment? I think we should have a little bit more wisdom. What I ask of them is a little bit for each place, without analyzing where to prioritize; in the end, something for everyone and trying to be well and in practice is not giving it to anyone. So I think anyone does. We do what we do is to include the right budget in each case depending on the phase in which each project is found. I've often been heard in this House that ruling is priority! In doing so, I think we have a realistic and credible budget. And then there are amendments that refer to different sections, but in these I understand these are errors that can be attributed to a change in the structure of the Government and that have not been fixed and followed by the previous sections. In any case, nothing happens, we make mistakes all of them — this one who talks to them, more than anyone, of course. They will understand, therefore, that we cannot accept their amendments. I also want to tell the BNG voicer that we refuse to raise taxes to the Greeks in almost 275 million euros. The first thing I want to tell you is that we don't want the Greeks paying nearly 22 million euros more for the IRPF. It is true that you propose increases from 120,000 euros, not from 50,000 as the Socialist Party. I see the concept of rich is different. But the justification for refusing the IRPF's rise is the same as I already exposed to the Socialist Group, in the sense that the reform we did in 2016 has already lowered the IRPF for the vast majority of incomes we have in the autonomous community — 98.5% — keeping progress and rising to the incomes that have a certain size. We also don't want the Greeks to pay 47 million euros more in the inheritance and prayer tax. With the reductions we approved in 2016 — as it is until 2020 — our goal is to keep the family heritage and the economic capacity of a family when a direct family member dies. It's a measure that, as you know, has already benefited over 460,000 Galicians and Greeks. And we want it to be like this. Also, we don't want the Greeks paying 40 million more for the wealth tax. I'm already referring to the position of the German Government on this tax, but in addition to the BNG proposal on the reduction of the minimum exemption and elevation of the types of recording it is not indicated what would be the minimum exemption or the rate to be applied, so it's not possible to assess the impact they calculate. I only remember the same thing as the Socialist Group: we have the same rate that the Bipartite Government applied between 2005 and 2009. We also do not want the Greeks to pay EUR 113.8 million more for the creation of four new taxes — on high-voltage networks, empty housing, large commercial areas and over-sugar beverages. As for the creation of a tax on large surfaces, I refer to what I just told the Socialist Party. On the tax on high-voltage networks to raise EUR 800,000, we do not know the tax structure that is formulated or how that amount is calculated; but again, by looking at the tax rates of other autonomous communities, it would range between EUR 1 and 2 million, with which it does not seem much wealth to establish a new tax on this count. And besides, as I've already said, the final rulings of the Supreme Court make it necessary to evaluate these tax figures, because they can finally be impacted on the final consumer. As I said earlier, it doesn't contain with us for that. In relation to the autonomous tax on empty dwellings, the BNG's proposal is again not accompanied by any justification of the object and purpose of the tax that will be created, neither by the configuration of its essential elements nor by the consequences of its implementation. Only the impact of the new fiscal measure is quantified, nothing more and nothing less than EUR 36 million. Your Honor, we have another model. Law 1/2019, of 22 April, of rehabilitation and urban regeneration and renewal of Galicia, regulates the canon of buildings that are declared in state of abandonment by the Galego Institute of Vivenda e Solo. The first income will occur in this 2021 and the management will be carried out through receipt. The property will be recorded at 0,6 % on the catastral value if it has been declared to be ruined, and at 0,4 % in the rest of the cases. In addition, the cannon will increase by 10% per year that remains in a state of abandonment. Finally, on the autonomic tax on over-sugar beverages, once again there's nothing about how these 15 million euros are estimated to have an impact on them. Does the BNG really intend to raise 15 million euros with this tax in view, in addition, that in the Bill of General State Budgets which is being dealt with — after approval at the Courts — there is already the VAT of these drinks from 10% to 21%? Nor can we agree with your formulation to include at the moment 140 million euros additional to the React-EU. I already told them in the morning that ours is a prudent estimate. If we get more money later, welcome. And they'll obviously be included, generating credit by now in this 2021. But given that these additional resources are subject to negotiation with the central government, what we have of course in that proposed negotiation would not send us to negotiate with anyone from the BNG, would we not? Well, I think they'd do the same thing to you as they did in your negotiation for state budgets. I mean, none. On the reductions they make, in relation to the reduction in staff costs of cabinets and non-material expenses, I refer to the already commented on PSdeG. You were also part of the most expensive government in Galicia's history, with higher charges, more advisories and more spending on advisers in history. And with a plugin: they were also the most raucous in paying the potential -- you, both progressives on one side and the other -- There were people who didn't even make 1,000 euros. If they want, I'll show them the payrolls of all we had back then. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And the same policy takes place in the non-material expenditure section, which now that they are halved — as it pointed out in some examples a moment ago — seems very much to you. In this sense, let me give you another very significant example. In an amendment to this type of expenditure, an amount of EUR 60,000 shall be reduced by an appropriation which is limited to EUR 9,000. See if we spend little on intangible expenses that what they withdraw does not reach the alternative they formulate. Other minorities. Like the Socialist Party, on occasion they call for the withdrawal of resources from shares corresponding to finalist or European funds, even from the React-EU fund, for other purposes which do not correspond, so as they have already been exposed to them, it would be impossible to apply. And it's not one or two or three, it's tens. They also have several formulations in which transfers to autonomous entities or bodies are reduced first, but then they are not reduced by the same amount in the budgets of these entities. This happens in the budgets of the Galaga Emergency Agency, the Tourism Agency, the Galego Equality and Welfare Consortium and the City of Culture Foundation. I could go on, huh! They also eliminate direct subsidies to the Confederation of Employers and trade unions. Is that really the position of BNG with economic and social agents? Do you really want to leave them out of resources? My attention is very much drawn to me. And then we have other very contradictory amendments. There have been times when we have criticised funding — today morning too — for local authorities. And when it comes to budgets, they make amendments to reduce it by more than 5 million euros. A little coherence, please! And by not continuing with many more examples, they propose to increase funding for Sergas. They just mentioned him a moment ago. But they don't develop that increase in the body's credits, they go in stock. I think they are more than enough examples to justify that we cannot support your proposals. To finish, after analyzing your amendments, you have something in common for opposition groups that makes it very difficult for us to accept them. On the income side, we reject them because they rise the taxes we already have, although not on the same counties. They create new taxes, in most cases without sufficiently realising their scope and how the supposed collecting force is calculated. And even in some cases they include income that we can't account for and we don't know if they'll get to the count they indicate in the amendments. As far as spending reductions are concerned, you agree to withdraw finalist funds from the state or European funds, even from the React-EU, which, as I said, make it impossible to approve such amendments because the resources that change cannot be used for the purpose they propose. Some other amendments, if accepted, would affect the operation of the Administration in its task of providing services to citizenship — and then we talk about cuts. And they also remove splits that we consider as priority for this government's budgetary strategy. For all these reasons, and because, as is normal, we want to maintain the budgetary priorities of our model, we have to reject formulations that can affect our objectives, which I reiterate that are focused on the fight against the pandemic, economic reactivation and attention both to people, families or employees and businesses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u64	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the non-amendant group, the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u65	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. First of all, I think we have to draw attention to the tone, the tone and intensity of the interventions we have just heard — especially that of Mr Caballero this morning, especially overacted —. And the fact is that we, from the majority group, what we have to ask for is a little bit of humility to the opposition groups. Humility, first of all, because you have already ruled Galicia. They've already ruled Galicia and the truth is that their revenues have worked, because Galicia has been much worse for it during those years and they've left Galicia at the door of the worst economic crisis we've had in our recent history. And secondly, I wanted to ask them for humility because we've already examined ourselves, very little ago, on July 12th. And so many of the criticisms we've just heard here are that they're out of date, because citizenship has already evaluated the government and the opposition. He revalided the Government, which expanded most, some stayed as they were and others collected the remains of the Tide. And therefore, as we have discussed recently, we are government and others are opposition by the majority will of citizenship; and, in addition, reiterated — in 2020, 2016 and 2012 —. And, therefore, many of the criticisms you make with those scares are not really supported. In addition, another of the issues we have just seen is the division of opposition groups. This is the Government, and you together would be the alternative. What a bad alternative it would be for Galicia! Because what we saw is that they go out to the rostrum and, in addition to criticizing the government — that's what's normal — they're squabbling between you. How wise is the Greek people who did not want the Galician pandemic to be managed by an unfortunate, confronted and divided bipartite, which does not coincide with their recipes! [[Applause]] It's true that the BNG now wants to distance itself from the Socialist Party and take any opportunity to say that they disagree. Well, to disagree, the truth is they rule, cogobernan, with the Socialist Party wherever they can. You are the glove of the Socialist Party of Gonzalo Caballero and Pedro Sánchez. And that's a conviction that goes to their office and, as much as they come here and scare and take advantage of to launch a critique, the truth is that you are as responsible as the PSdEG-PSOE for the punishment of the state's general budgets to Galicia. That's the reality. [[Applause]] Counselor, these are unquestionable budgets, exceptional budgets for an exceptional moment. Budgets increase by 14%, with the greatest social expenditure in Galician history, with the greatest investment in our history; budgets focused on economic recovery with three objectives: overcoming the pandemic, reactivation of the economy and employment, and meeting the needs of families, pemes and self-employed. They're prudent budgets, realistic budgets. They have exceptional revenues of 1,800 million euros. Before they tell us that we have to thank Pedro Sánchez. We're kidding! Look, these are exceptional transfers from the state that correspond to Galicia and we don't have to thank anyone. And if Spain receives more European funds than anyone else is because Spain is worse than the rest of Europe. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, less alharacas, because the management that the Government of Spain is doing in this pandemic is being quite regrettable! That's too sorry! He resorts to responsible indebtedness, we don't raise taxes, and we're proud not to do so. It's true that others prefer to raise their taxes to raise their salary to the Government, or to continue with that multi-party government that has doubled its cost since you came to the Government. It's a social budget. Four out of five euros go to health and education, social policy and employment: health, 4,587 million euros —473 more than last year — education, 2,700 million euros —166 million euros more than last year — social policies, 900 million euros — 126 million euros more than last year — employment, which is advice for new creation, and that is commitment to employment and the rest are partners, 97 million euros in active employment policies more than last year. But who do they want to teach? This is the most social government in the history of Galicia as much as you pray. Indeed, this is the most important parliamentary debate of the year, it is the most important, in which the priorities, the priorities of the Government and the priorities of the opposition are expressed. What are our priorities? I have already expressed them, but in this debate we can see that we have an opposition, whether united or individualized — if we do not want to reach the Socialist Party's lords — that it certainly has no argumental line, has no absolute coherence and is absent from medium-sizedly Hilvanated proposals. What is the alternative programme of the economic opposition? It doesn't exist. There's no alternative program, we just heard it. They contradict each other, they don't exist. Today we are debating a small array of inconsistent, incoherent amendments, a battery of cross-sectional amendments that from a technical and formal point of view are very weak, as you can see from the legal advice of this House. In short, a chapuzada, impermissible amendments that would force a change of state tax laws to be applied. Finally, everything seems to indicate that the opposition groups did not take very seriously the work when presenting these amendments. About those of the BNG, the truth is he did a perfectly defined analysis of the councillor of Fairy. Look, you're proposing the practical elimination of the technical offices of the councils, which were never as big as you were when you ruled. That's the reality. They propose the reduction of all computer spending, the elimination of all kinds of communications from the Autonomic Administration. The BNG of Ana Pontón wants to go back to the tam-tam, because the fact is that it leaves the Councillors of the Galician Union incommunicado. You propose a plan for reactivating and boosting cultural sectors. Like saying no! Right? What they don't say is that this plan comes out of stopping Povervisa or closing the General Ferrol Hospital. They don't tell you that. You propose more investment in the mental health care plan. Like saying no! But to do so they propose to eliminate the policies of processing and marketing fish and aquaculture. You're proposing a 15 million euros hostel rescue plan, but it's worth 15 million euros to Sergas. Tell us which hospital they want to close. Of course, we have to help the hostel, but without closing hospitals, as you propose. The truth is, drinking Coca-Cola is going to be rich, actually -- the counselor said -- because it's only to lift the VAT plus 15 million you propose... BNG ladies take Galicia seriously, take Galicia seriously! They propose to create a public body of management of the nearby train, something like "the chu-chu train" of Greek nationalism, but they do it by taking away 12 million euros from Sergas — and right now —. They propose the launch of a plan for the planning of the mountain by withdrawing EUR 4 million from the Health Council planned for the purchase of health supplies from PPE. Do you know how much they take to buy health supplies, both in hospital care and in primary care? Fifty million euros. They're taking us to other programs. And they also do, knowing that, because in the Farming Commission the counselor explained it. So when they take those 50 million away for other uses, they know perfectly where they fire them, and therefore they do it with knowledge of cause. They plant the rescue of the Cunqueiro Álvaro — 100 million euros —. And how do they do it? By raising taxes to the Greeks, or by creating new taxes that will ultimately result in the pocket of the Greeks, of all the Greeks. I am sure that the vast majority of the Greeks, even the minorities who voted for you, do not agree with this proposal. Either you work for that investment fund or otherwise you don't understand that, in the middle of the pandemic, you want the Galician Board to subtract 100 million euros from the Welsh pockets to give them to a fund of investments behind the builder who made the hospital. And I'm sure they'd get applause from that investment fund, because, of course, it's the only interest you represent. Socialist amendments are even more ridiculous than those of BNG, ridiculous because of lack of solvency and also because of the contradiction they suppose. These budgets are so bad, so bad, so bad, you only change them by 5% and you increase them by one percent. How bad they were! I think they live in absolute demagogy. There is a paragraph of his amendment that is chilling — page 7 —. You propose a greater collection of inheritance taxes and heritage transmissions because you say they're waiting for larger liquidations. And I read textually: "In view of its foreseeable evolution in a context where the inheritances in life and derived from the covid-19 are possible." What do you mean? Do you intend to cash in with the inheritance of the people who lose their lives with the coward? I hope Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo explains it in her intervention. You're talking about spending on office, advertising, propaganda, and you're talking about the same party that supports that government of Spain that has deceived a whole country with that of "we'll be stronger," that government multiplied by two, that government based on parallel administration, just you. Look, you're talking about a lack of transparency in budgets. It's frankly curious. When in their amendments — these are — they eliminate the concepts of the gamers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u66	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u67	...and they present them with codes. They don't talk about concepts. This is where they cut off from. [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira shows a document.]] And this is the column where they put it. [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira displays a new document.]] And why? Because they're trying to hide what their cuts are. Do you know where you cut off? In the contingency funds, including that of Sergas, at this very moment when we should have funds for any continence that is present in full pandemic. They cut down on the construction of education centers. They cut in the construction of primary centers. Yeah, yeah, check the codes! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u68	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u69	They cut out the new furniture for the health centers. They cut off that kind of game, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. They can hide the row of concepts, but you have to look at the codes, and the codes come out all that. Finally, we're faced with cross-sectional amendments, cross-sectional amendments of impossible execution.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u70	Thank you, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u71	And, of course, it does not contain with us to participate in this parody of debate on very little-worked amendments that in no way...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u72	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u73	...think about the needs of the Greeks...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u74	Your time is up, thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica of amending groups. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u75	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, the truth is, listening to your intervention, there would be no possibility of rectification, because you are the owners of the truth. Only you know how to do it well, only you know how to do it perfectly. And then he comes to talk to us here of lack of humility, of tone. But, look, the lack of moisture that you just demonstrated in this rostrum is that it leaves quite a wish. Don't talk about a lack of moisture, don't talk about a lack of dialogue. [[Applause]] Look, Counsellor, we obviously have different views of politics. We present an amendment that goes into our political ideal, as it is to promote public policies to fix the population — while you in eleven years lose 96,000 people — or to fight unemployment and precarious work, with that poor working class that you encourage, and with paintings — which I'm going to leave here later to the president— of IGE data to see that the population occupied in Galicia at the moment is less, less, than it was in 2009. And not only at this moment, Counselor, I'm not going to cheat you. It's just that in December 2019 it was smaller, less! Our idea is also to prevent the deterioration of public services, where you've been cutting eleven years of your government continuously. And we also care for people who are at risk of poverty or social exclusion. And I'm also going to remind you of the number of homes that all their members are unemployed or the homes in which there is no income at this time in Galicia; or those 655,000 people who were at risk of poverty or social exclusion in 2019, which represent 24.3% of the total population of our territory. That's what we're talking about, Counselor, that's what we're talking about! And, look, we've been talking here about the amendments we've tabled, don't try to ridicule us ever again, which is something you have, and lately it's growing. Every year he does it like he's safer. Don't try to ridicule us, we do our work I think quite strictly, the best we can and we know with a dark and opaque budget project, as much as Mr. Tellado says. Don't come here to teach us paternalist lessons, we don't need them. [[Applause]] We have different views, but we are as worthy as you to come here to present our proposals. [[Applause]] You speak of the will to come to agreements and act followed to tell us that it will be impossible. They speak of a "Consensus Fund", of these nearly 115 million euros, of which the Health Counsellor, in his presence in the Reactivation Committee that was developed in this Parliament, has already said they were health funds. So it's a consensus fund that you've already agreed to, but don't talk about agreeing with us when they're already announcing what they're going to use. [[Applause]] And, look, Counsellor, on the background of continence, let's see, years after year, the background of continence — not this year, but every year — that's what they do for pharmaceutical expenditure. It's a cost that's known to you before you make the budgets. In addition, the Board of Auditors puts it in its recommendations and conclusions year after year, year after year! And the continence background may be this year for the coward but it may be for many other things. And you've already decided what it is. It's not a contingency fund, it happens they hide behind that fund expenses they've already known before to draw up budgets. So it doesn't contain any milongas here. He also tells us about the redistribution of taxes and that we don't know and that we don't explain the paintings. But, look, then there will be a debate about the Law of Tax and Administrative Measures, which you present from behind to modify 20,000 laws every year because you want to avoid and steal the political debate of each of these laws. So here go the paintings and explain what our proposal is. I'm obviously not going to put myself here at this, because if I hadn't, I'd be completely exhausted all our time. But, look, I'm just gonna give him a brush. In what we propose on the property tax it is to lower the minimum exempt to 400,000 euros, which come to be around 16,500 people, who have the greatest assets within Galicia — by the way, 400,000 euros aside from the usual housing, which can reach another 400,000 euros — and with an average of 1,600 euros a year in that settlement of assets. I do not think that with these heritages they cannot contribute at times when we absolutely need all the resources, all the resources! in order to be able to cope with this pandemic, this health crisis, this economic crisis and this social crisis. Counsellor, it is also not true that we are using shares that complement European funds. It's not true...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u76	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u77	...look at your notes, look at your notes. Obviously, time is very scarce for what we want to talk about, and you're actually coming here with a series of lies and paternalisms that make us, well, because you've wasted some time on everything we wanted to say. I just want to say that socialists also think about the most vulnerable and the worst people going through, the families that are suffering from this pandemic in their social context. And I insist that in this project of indolent budgets that you bring us do not come up with the resources necessary to reduce inequality in Galicia, and that already existed in 2019. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Rumbo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u79	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I wanted to start with a thank you to Mr. Tellado, because at last in this debate — which we see many times since the opposition as frustrating because it is impossible to ever get anything on the part of the German Government — at least today we get you to recognize that the private hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro is in the hands of a private investment fund. The next will be to convince them that this situation has to be corrected. [[Applause]] But, well, at least we've earned something in this debate with that recognition, Mr Tellado. There was a common argument in both interventions. Of course, Mr. Martínez plays with the advantage that he can speak about five or six times longer than we speak of the humble spokesmen of the opposition, but in any case I wanted to put the accent on a question. You talk of impossible, of the evil that we do things... at last of the worst possible opposition, of a bunch of pods, etc., in front of the great government that does everything absolutely well. So I wanted to insist that this is a fundamentally political debate, that we have to soften the corset that imposes on us the methodology. But in any case, of course, you're going to talk about technique. And I'm going to put two examples of real life, real budgets and real budget changes, for each of the voices of the People's Party that they spoke about. For Mr. Tellado, of course, we offer help in our amendments that cannot be done. Look, what we make are absences, they're absences. And you're going to talk about getting out. Because, of course, we have a better or worse political debate, but, of course, you, in real life in the last budget changes of November, what do you do? They mobilize resources of seven million and peak for a hotel plan. And, of course, it looks good, it's a necessary plan. But what's the problem? Where do you get it from? There are the sheets of budgetary changes, and here is also the Employment Advisor, who can review them. Of course, they get out of the aid to people affected by ERE, training unemployed, busy. Of course, like everyone else! [[Applause]] But you know what reflects that? That reflects that you've had eight months of pandemic, that you had those budgeted counts, that you could move them and they weren't moving them. And that reflects that they didn't need any extraordinary resources to do so. Don't deny it, because as a member of Commission 3a, you also have in your email these budgetary changes. Then we could also talk about examples for Mr. Martínez' wonderful budgets. It's just that, of course, you guys do the same thing. They play games with names and chords, because you, for example, in the memory of budgets say that in Ourense they're going to make a new health center in the street, they're going to reform the one in Ribadavia and the one in the Arnoia. But then, in the games that you have for the reform of health centres, the construction of new health centers, about 9 million euros in total, Ourense is territorialized by 0.4%. You're going to make all that investment. I mean with that, Mr Martínez, this is not a debate about the good or the bad that we do the amendments, but about political priorities and absences in your budgets. [[Applause]] And in any case, you know that today it ends — I think it's past six and a half — the deadline for registering partial amendments. The Galician Nationalist Block will present, or has already presented, in the register more than 500. I suppose, if they're so dialogueal, we can reach consensus in some of them. But unfortunately, year after year, they don't give a single chance, because they don't admit the slightest mistake, nor even when they happen like mental health -- in which Mr. Tellado also set the example -- that you speak of 83 million euros and then it goes just over 1 million in the budgets of the Union for something so serious and with so many needs. You can't stand your criticism, Mr. Martínez. The same applies to the issue of European funds. It's just that I don't know what seems to me to be even worse, whether you're hiding in caution or what you're moving is that you're actually following the same ability to negotiate for this country, which is prone to zero. Because, on the one hand, you say that, of course, there is no sign of anything they are promising from the state and from the European institutions — which also leaves us in a situation of major insecurity — and at the same time they do not say, if any of these extraordinary resources fail, from which they will cut it — and therefore they do not want to vote in this Parliament to cut down a single social party — and, on the other hand, they slip the amount. I don't know if Mr. Married lets you have any more political ambition, but in any case it's bad news for this country. Or the problem is that they don't want to get more European funds because then it goes like the 2014-2020 financial framework, which you have more than 1,400 million euros without running yet, Mr. Martínez. Maybe that's the problem you have. [[Applause]] And then, of course, it's impossible to give an honest debate politically about the different tax models when you come here saying that, of course, you don't know what the little letter that hides the BNG is, when you know perfectly that we formally always incorporate these issues into the amendments to the articulated tax law. In any case, by setting an example that already dismantles your argument, you know perfectly well that we in the empty housing tax that we record are the legal persons, those large investment funds and banks that have the hijacked housing in this country when there are so many people with that housing need. Also, if they want to exercise self-government so much, we invite them to continue to bet on managing more taxes and not less, as was their line in previous years. In short, I would give a lot of this matter, and we don't have time, but I just make a brief point. You spoke of temporality and working conditions of temporary workers during the Bipartite Government. Look, Mr. Martínez, you're blundering a little bit because you know what you've expanded the rate of temporality, you know, besides, that you didn't convene the oppositions in time and form, and that there's now a problem in this country after the European judgments on this subject for the Greek economy, and for many people, that you see it solved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u80	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u81	So a little measure. In any case — already mentioned — in this amendment to the whole of this is a political debate on priorities and absences, which are indeed different economic, social and political models. No one comes here to question an election result. If we question the result of what you have applied in the preceding eleven years, and if we question that we are in an absolutely exceptional situation that cannot allow routine and propaganda. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Close this debate by the Conseilante de affaira e Administración Pública.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u83	Be brief, be brief! Sometimes, really, when one speaks with certain rigour... I really don't want to go through it if he plays it as a paternalist, but I don't apologize, and, if so, in no way. I am referring to a very specific case which has just been pointed out, which is the way to finance certain actions that have to do with sectors that are really going through very badly — say autonomous ones, it would be said to be inn. They also refer to me this morning. And "or funding." Home!, arrived in November, that we can't take advantage of certain credits, that they don't run right now, for a good superior...! From which I also tell you, but please tell the absent Mr. Caballero too—that everyone may be absent, uh!, and that he spoke this morning of not knowing if they were 200,000 or 300,000 autonomous—that we have one line for autonomy and another for micro-enterprises and hospitality, and that it turns out that they ended on the 18th and we have petitions for about twenty-one thousand and something twenty-two thousand applications. We had them on the 18th at noon when I took the accounting data. Because something else we won't have, but accounting and digitizing a lot of processes, yes. If they are agreed, the two orders we have in force are EUR 30 million, and the requests we have are close to 28 million, of which 9,589 are processed, which are EUR 11,6 million, which are already charged on Friday — I suppose any one who entered on Friday would charge on Saturday, depending on whatever financial entity it is — each and every one of them. So, the first question is, you have to know how to work with the sources of funding, make the most of it, because the fundamental thing is to solve the needs that our self-employed people are having, our hostel, our micro-enterprises, our leisure sector. That's what we dedicated ourselves to until the last day of the year, and with much effort, by the way. So go ahead. I don't understand — and I wouldn't talk, but let me tell you, Mrs. Presas. There's nothing worse or better, it's neither good nor bad about you, but it's very recommended to read sometimes about what you're talking about, and what you say here about this government, about temporality, etc. "I have no other custom because one is already starting to get heated." See page 8 of the agreement signed between Mrs. Ana Ponton and Mrs. Adriana Llastra. You said things here in this Parliament that are lacking in the truth. [[Murmurs.]] It said, in point 4, page 8, as regards the replacement rates: "To analyse the formulae to progressively improve the rates of such...". [[Murmurs.]] I repeat again, you have a double language. [[Strong murmurers.]] They always have a double language! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They always have a double language! [[Murmurs.]] The theory of original sin in this part of the House seems to me to be lacking it, losing care, not the gift of infallibility, not to be careful. But what's ahead of you is one thing, I always tell mine and I think it's true — I think, it's not because I say it's true. Not only do we have an advantage over any of you. We're a little more workers. So we're not lazy, we really work, really, many hours — sometimes correctly, sometimes without him — but we're not lazy. [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] And don't shake our hand when making decisions, even sometimes wrong. [[Murmurs.]] And that's the definition of painless you say so much. [[Murmurs.]] From time to time, you have to look at what you mean. Not because you use certain words if you're going to get better in this House. So nothing lazy and nothing to make decisions. Yes it costs us, and sometimes we don't even hit it — sometimes, but few, eh! [[Applause]] We have ended this debate, a wide debate, with many proposals — I believe so — and with an exchange of views and suggestions that I always think useful — indeed, out of the chascarrillos. Even though, from the arguments I have already put forward, we cannot accept their amendments in the vast majority. This doesn't mean that we, as a government, have the perfect recipe. But if I believe that we have a responsible budget model and especially useful, useful for the Greeks and for the Greeks, which are the ones we owe ourselves. In fiscal policy there is a very different universe, almost parallel, between what you propose -- with different intensity, that is, the opposition's two groups -- and ours. It's legitimate. But I think we're more in agreement with the way of thinking that he has the vast majority of citizenship. Whenever they can, for you — with pandemic or without pandemic — the recipe is always the same. There's no cyclical, anticyclical or procyclical performance. It's always the same!: raise taxes. That's what many of you call tax capacity increase. That's another lie. It's raising taxes to citizens and businesses. That's what they want to do, both in kindness and in the pandemic and in the middle pensioners, all of you. I urge them that we always seek, at least — as we do for 2021 — not to raise taxes; and if it is possible — as we have done since 2016 — to go to selective discounts. We must always prioritize, not put $300,000 for each municipality, 200,000 for each school, 100,000 for that... we must be able to prioritize even sometimes by taking some chascarrillo and some collection of certain people. Everything and for all it doesn't have to be prioritized. And another thing that practically none of you understand -- the young and those who aren't so young -- is that the best way we have to prestigious the services that we provide with public money is to make them profitable. You call that "shortcut," "shortcut," "shortcut"... We -- I repeat again -- that's what we call "efficiencies," and it doesn't have to do with Keynes or the previous Keynes or half-pensionist. Every euro that is placed in our hands is not ours, it has its origin in the Greeks and the Greeks. So, let's make it profitable, which is what it's about. This budget — I repeat again — has four very important instruments. The first one is to fight the pandemic, with a size approaching 15% of the top expenditure we had in 2020, because the data are there. I think it's right, but the pandemic exists, it's not over. We must take care of ourselves all in respect of what they tell us from public health. And, above all, what we need to help and accompany people, knowing that we may not get to everything, but at a very large level -- they say they are autonomous, they are called certain sectors. And by the way, there's a new inconsistencies I detect in your messages. We talked about a lot of things, even Mrs. Ana Pontón the other day in the Coruña shared much of the growth for the culture sector. And the BNG, which is so given to this world -- the rest seems not to be, has made no reference to culture. I do it today. We have a very clear, specific budget for the cultural field, which they have as any company, which they are also companies, and there they will contribute. That's what we're dedicated to, not so much talking and doing anything else. Yes, I think we should pay attention throughout the legislation which is to provide sufficient resources for improvement in our infrastructures, because the best professionals already have, and more than ever, there was! We don't have a double message, and above all they don't take the 115 million euros from the Consensus Fund, even if it's like a propensity to agree. It's a lot of what brings us here in the day, it's a lot of what they have to do from the House. And even we're going to have to change our positions on something. But if we do, we'll really get a little better and stronger. Nobody has the truth. But in our case, I think the hand is tender, the resources are set and not just the words. We walk that way and we'll all get a little better, that's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u84	Thank you, Counselor. Votes for amendments to the whole amending the overall budget account or transferring appropriations between sections
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u85	We shall then proceed to the vote on the amendments to Group II, which we will do in a cumulative way — both those which change the overall content of budgets and those which transfer appropriations between sections. We therefore voted together on the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and those of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. Voting amendments to group II as a whole, amending the overall budget content and transferring appropriations between sections of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia and the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 42. The result of the vote is negative. The amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u86	Rejected the amendments to the whole, and fixed the overall amount of expenditure and income statements, this bill is transferred to Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, to continue its processing, in accordance with Article 114 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. This concludes here the entire debate of the draft budget law of the Autonomous Community for 2021. But it is not enough because we continue with another debate now. Full discussion of the draft law on tax and administrative measures
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u87	This bill has been amended to the full of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block in Wales. For the presentation of the bill, Mr. Valeriano Martínez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u88	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, for the sixth time I spoke in this plenary session — I really don't think it will last more than ten or twelve minutes, I won't be able to stand much longer — to present the Bill of Tax and Administrative Measures for the year 2021, a rule that complements the Bill of Budgets for this exercise, also currently in parliamentary processing and on what we have just discussed a few minutes ago. This project is based on the fact that budgets require, for their full application, the adoption of various measures, of a purely executive character and of a normative nature which, by their nature, must adopt a range of laws and which, as the Constitutional Court has specified, should not be incorporated into the annual general budget laws but into specific laws. In this way, the doctrinal debate on the nature of so-called "accompaniment laws" has already been resolved by the Constitutional Court, which set them up as ordinary laws whose contents are fully supported by the freedom of regulatory configuration enjoyed by the legislator and which allows for greater and more effective execution of the Government's program in the various areas of its action. From this perspective, the objective is the usual: to achieve greater effectiveness and efficiency with a set of measures in different areas which, with a vocation of permanence over time, contribute to the achievement of certain multi-year guidance goals pursued by the Autonomous Community through budgetary execution. Among the measures included in this draft law, it would like to highlight those seeking to establish subsidies for various sectors of activity to alleviate the effects of loss of economic activity due to the pandemic of cover-19; to strengthen conciliation measures for the permission of public employees; to set as a merit for transfers, promotions and careers the provision of services present in residential and socio-sanitary centres; to have a more agile regulation to delimit the high-risk perimeters of fires and on preventive actions; to clarify the wording on the right of families with two or more children to benefit from the free education of children from 0 to 3, even though some of the children are over 18 years old; to facilitate the functioning of government bodies and the representation of cooperatives in the situation caused by the pandemic, ensuring the participation of the older population and the rural environment; or to enhance the fulfilment by the equal schemes to promote the integration of women into the working world, the reduction of wage pay-related discrimination and avoidance. As for the structure of the law, it is divided into two titles. The former is devoted to fiscal measures and the latter is administrative measures. With regard to the first title — relating to tax measures — it is divided into two chapters. Chapter 1 introduces measures in respect of assigned taxes. With regard to gambling fees, invite or chance rates in casinos, machines or automatic equipment and bingos, we have established bonuses applicable to these taxes to mitigate the effects that the pandemic had during this 2020. For their part, the second chapter, concerning their own taxes, is composed of two precepts. In the first instance, on charges, we plan to update the rates of fixed counting rates and, secondly, to introduce several amendments to the Tax, Prices and Excise Law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. In the second one, new exemptions are also introduced into the water canon, which are focused on restoration establishments and leisure that aim to significantly decrease their activity in a given period as a result of the evolution of the cod-19 they are not affected by that time the water canon and the discharge coefficient. And also in tax matters, we introduced a transitional provision for the year 2021 for exceptional exemptions and subsidies from port charges, with a view also to palliating the effects of the covid-19 on the hospitality sector located in the ports of the autonomous community. Ladies and gentlemen, so far in relation to tax measures. Now let me refer to Title II on administrative measures. As regards public employment, we have introduced several amendments. On the one hand, in addition to timely changes of an organisational nature, others that refer mainly to the permissions of public employees, who adapt autonomous regulations to the state. Among these, it is to expand the benefits of maternity, adoption and lactation that officials have already recognized. We improve permits for public employees by maternity, adoption and reception. And we reinforce these permits in several assumptions, such as multiple births, breastfeeding, the death of a child or daughter or the care of people with disabilities. In addition, we plan to establish as a merit for transfers, promotions and careers the effective provision of presence services in residential and socio-sanitary centres during the emergence of covid-19 for certain categories. We include special measures to ensure the safe holding of selective processes, enabling this to be tested in multiple locations, as well as successively in turns. Let's apply to the legislation of the country protection measures to the public employee who are victims of terrorist violence. We extend to the fixed labour force of public sector entities the wage identity regime agreed with the trade unions on the basis of the agreement, for those who are supposed to be integrated into the single collective agreement, or voluntary functioning. A point is added in the Sergas Staff Regulations Order to reduce the time limits for taking possession of the destinations obtained in transfer contests, justified by the reinforcement of units by the increase in the demand for assistance during the pandemic. So what we're trying to do with all this is to facilitate care planning. In the field of the environment and territory, we have included several changes. One refers to the Land Law Regulation, in particular on the delimitation of rural nuclei laid down in the subsidiary rules when the municipal basic plans are adopted. Another is to modify the Law of Natural Heritage and Biodiversity, to achieve greater precision in the definitions collected in the norm itself and in the declaration procedures of all natural spaces regulated in it. We also collect a number of defence and protection measures in the area of management of the Natura 2000 Network to clarify the interpretation of permitted, permissible or prohibited uses, relating to the maintenance of broadband and biomass management networks, as well as the construction of forest defence facilities in certain special conservation areas. In the field of rural environment, among the main policy changes, is the reform of the Forest Fire Prevention and Defence Act to achieve a more agile and inclusive procedure in the practice of the declaration of high-risk fire perimeters and, in particular, with regard to preventive actions along the municipal channels of ownership, to reduce the risk of forest fire. To extend from fifteen to thirty natural days the deadline for the holders of the lands or of the rights of use to carry out preventive work. And in the Land Mobility Act, to adjust the regulation of model villages based on the experience gained in its recent launch. Thus, the Productive Management Guide is added as a technical document delimiting the most suitable productive uses for the exploitation of the plots included in the model village, setting the procedure for processing and approval. In terms of infrastructure and mobility, changes are also introduced to the regulation of road transport regulations. As for the Law on the Public Transport of Persons in Tourism Vehicles, it adapts the identification regime of VTC vehicles, so they should only carry the autonomic badge on the front of the vehicle. With regard to the Road Law, we seek to speed up and simplify the administrative processing of actions that require authorization, for being in road influence zone. As far as the sea is concerned, in the Fisheries Act we amended the article on serious infringements, in line with the reform of the State Maritime Fisheries Act. The benefit of this measure lies in that it will avoid penalizing the set of confrries for involuntary actions, which with this change become considered minor infringements. As for the Ports Act, only some clarifications are made to ensure legal certainty in its drafting and to achieve greater simplicity. As regards social policy, I would like to highlight several points. We add a point in the ninth additional provision of the Social Services Act, to clarify that families with two or more children, although one of them is over 18 years old, can also benefit from free education from 0 to 3. In addition, it amends the Grants Act, so that social inclusion aids and similar municipal aid which are considered to be of first necessity do not have a subsidy character. This exempts vulnerable persons who perceive them to have to meet each and every one of the requirements set out in a generic way in grants. On the other hand, we changed the decree governing the registration, authorization, accreditation and inspection of social services. The goal is simply to simplify the documentation needed to obtain the permission to create or build social services centres. In the field of employment and equality, two regulatory amendments are included. On the one hand, in the Law of Cooperatives, to facilitate the functioning of its organs of government and representation in the face of the situation caused by the pandemic. The aim is to ensure the participation of its partners, especially older people and those living in rural areas. On the other hand, in regulating the Greek certification of excellence in the field of equality, the mechanism whereby the Galician Union recognises those companies that stand out in the implementation of equality policies. The aim in this case is to enhance the compliance of companies with equality plans and thus increase the integration and visibility of women in the world of work, the reduction of the pay gap and the avoidance of discrimination on the basis of gender. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already reiterated that the main measures included in this bill are intended to set tax benefits for economic activities due to the effects of cod-19, to recognise the effective provision of present services in residential and socio-sanitary centres, to speed up legislation on forest fire prevention, to clarify the right of families with two or more children to benefit from free education of 0-3, even though one of the children is over 18 years old, to facilitate the functioning of government bodies and representation in cooperatives, or to enhance the fulfilment of equal plans by companies as necessary. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u89	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The role of defence of amendments to the totality of return and positioning with respect to the bill. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Francisco Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u90	Thank you, President. Counselor, good night to all, I think it's already night. Indeed, I would not like to be repetitive in this debate in relation to the debate that has already taken place in the morning and afternoon in relation to budgets. Indeed, we are faced with an exceptional situation motivated by the pandemic, a very exceptional economic situation which also motivates very exceptional budgets, indeed; expansive budgets — if you have said so — budgets which exceptionally incorporate a expenditure capacity of the Galician Union in 1,575 million euros, as a result of the actual transfer of the State of 685 million, 1.1 % of the deficit assumed by the State of the Autonomous Community in relation to GDP, and 430 million euros in European funds as well. Well, all of this is indeed exceptional, and what should also be exceptional, the Law on Tax and Administrative Measures accompanying budgets, a law that should be exceptional in relation to budgets, ends up being a customary law, an annual law, a repeated law in relation to the amendment of laws that should follow a legislative procedure in this chamber. Therefore, from that point of view, there is no unfortunate exceptionality. It said the explanatory statement — and you, Counsellor, mentioned to it — that the Law on Tax and Administrative Measures contains a set of measures in a series of matters which, with a vocation of permanence over time, contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the Autonomous Community in the field of budgetary execution. The vocation of permanence in time of the measures modified by this Accompanying Law is no longer a fallacy, since last year, in fact, thirty laws have been changed and this year twenty-five are amended, but this year fourteen laws have been amended that were already amended last year; even specific articles that were modified last year are again amended this year in this law. Therefore, with this Budget Accompanying Law to the Galician Union, the Government, it modifies a multitude of rules that nothing has to do with budgeting or budget execution. And from that point of view — and I say it with absolute respect — we believe that this type of legislative technique is at least a step backwards from a democratic point of view, because it actually robs Parliament of the capacity for political debate, robs society of the capacity for social debate around what should be the ordinary processing of a law, the processing of a law. Therefore, the Law on Tax and Administrative Measures, which should exceptionally be a measure that accompanied the Law on Budgets to modify punctual tax matters or on-the-spot administrative matters, ends up being that law which everyone calls "the law of buses", a basket of tailors, more than a box, a genuine trunk, a genuine container where all kinds of amendments lie outside the public debate, outside the parliamentary debate. And it is a law that can actually be constitutionally—and it is not, we do not discuss it—but it is a law that violates autonomous laws, violates autonomous laws, especially the law of transparency and good governance of the Council of Galicia adopted in this parliament, which in its article 9 establishes or indicates that the circumstantial and motivated relationship of the procedures for drawing up draft laws and administrative provisions, with the indication of its object, as well as the possibility that people have to refer suggestions to it. Therefore, it is obvious what the Law itself says about transparency and good governance of the Council of Galicia. The Law of 2013 on the rationalization of the autonomic public sector, which provides that in all policy initiatives it must be justified to comply with the principles of necessity, proportionality, legal certainty, transparency and accessibility. The Government of Galicia, year by year, comes using and abusing these kinds of legislative mechanisms to actually modify a multitude of laws; this year it's twenty-five, if I didn't tell bad, the same is some more; last year it was indeed thirty. You say this is constitutional. Yes, it's constitutional, although it's not unanimously constitutional, because there are particular votes in the Constitutional Court's ruling on it. And the authors themselves, numerous in this matter, constitutional law specialists do not fail to understand that these laws are a fraud to the constitutional doctrine that establishes the limits of the content of the Budget Act, since, through the accompanying laws and the measures that are amended, it is possible even to create new taxes or to amend them, which violates Article 134 of the Constitution. So, this constitutionality thing we respect, it's constitutional, but there's doctrine and there's authors who maintain absolutely different positions. [[Applause]] It is true that the Government of the People's Party systematically opts for the Accompanying Law to modify a multitude of laws. Indeed, this has nothing to do with what happened in that disarray and dangerous government that was here in the years 2005 and 2009, the famous Bipartite, who has never used the Accompanying Law to approve its budgets or to modify any law through the Accompanying Law. We therefore reject this procedure, which we understand has nothing to do with budgets, an express procedure which says political and social debate and which does not contain reports which would be preceptive in a change of law by ordinary procedure. At the same time, this law is not accompanied by the preliminary report of the ESC, despite the fact that the Advocate General of the European Union demands that, in the event he does not accompany it, he should be motivated. What happens is that the motivation that the Galician Union itself uses is the arguments of Galician Council Counsel to say that it is motivated. So, these kinds of questions, of course, don't make sense. It does not accompany the ESC's report when the ESC's role in the Economic and Social Council is to issue preliminary rulings on draft laws linked to Galicia's economic and social development. It is an accompanying law that constitutes an extensive amalgam of inconsistent precepts, without a minimally homogeneous criterion, with an inadequate and improper legal technique, from the very beginning of transparency, which in some way produces legal insecurity and which, of course, is being used repeatedly by the Council of Galicia, by the Government, over the years. In fact, last year thirty laws were changed, this year twenty-five, fourteen of which were already amended last year as well. Throughout this last legislation, the Government of the People's Party has changed more than a hundred laws through the Accompanying Law, and at last being still legal — I don't say it's not legal — does not mean that it's very ethical and of course very aesthetic about the matter. It makes it clear, too, what is the capacity of legislative initiative that the Government of the United States has. And I am going to tell you, Counsellor: in the last four years, until 2020, the Union, the Government, has brought this parliament twenty-two laws, and, if we do not actually discount the Budgets Act and the Budgets Accompanying Law, it has succeeded in adopting fourteen. In the Bipartite, 2005-2009, no need for accompaniment law, fifty-six laws approved. This comes to the point — I don't know whether you said it or who said it, Mr. Tellado — about the workers that we were socialists or whether we didn't work or I don't know very well what you said. [[Applause]] This can be applied to the Government of the Union in the matter of legislative initiative. And, Mr Tellado, we will see what, in the matter of legislative initiative, the Government of the PP, from pajamas to sofa and sofa to bed, in relation to the capacity of legislative initiative. [[Applause]] You have related the set of laws that are modified — I am not going to repeat myself here — in different subjects. In fact, in tax matters they don't innovate much. You actually make a tax exemption for bingos, casinos and similar, a sector that is actually going through it, like many sectors in this country. We understand that tax exemptions at the moment must also prioritize many other sectors, not just that. With which we do not agree too much, but, well, we accept that it is a complex and complicated moment and that everyone has the right to life and therefore everyone has the right to benefit from exemptions and bonuses and also from aid. If we don't agree, Counselor, it's your fiscal policy. I'm not going to extend much, you've already discussed here with the fellow Socialist Party in the morning, with our spokesperson, and also in the afternoon with our budget spokesman. But really, your fiscal policy is regressive. Because you load, you do -- yes, yes -- there's a shift -- and we just have to take the data -- which means the tax burden of succession taxes and the property tax towards the IRPF. [[Murmurs.]] The tax profit data — which you like very much and the Government of the Galician Union I suppose too — tell us that the tax profit of the last nine years, 2010 to 2019, in the field of IRPF was 211 million. Well, we accept that they benefit, or that they exempt themselves, or that the incomes of the job, that they raise exemptions, finally, to the workers and to the people who earn income from their work. In succession tax, the tax benefits were 1,120 million. In property tax, 668 million. With collection data closed in 2019, the property tax raised 71.4 million and the tax benefit was 119.8 million; property transfer tax, tax benefit, 1,154 million in the last nine years. All right, let's not object to tax benefits. What we are saying, indeed, is that tax benefits have to have an impact on the citizens' pockets, indeed. But not all citizens' pockets are the same, not everyone benefits exactly from these tax benefits. Because you exempt yourself from inheritance tax by imposing an exemption from the taxable base of a million euros in a family of four members; I don't know if you know many families with two children where each cause or each child is entitled to one million euros of exemption, for each cause; four million euros would be exempt. I mean, do you know a lot of people who have such a family in Galicia with that heritage? Do you consider that succession tax should not be taxed under those circumstances? You understand not, we understand otherwise. And we also understand that the tax rates of wealth tax, therefore, the exempt base, must be lowered -- my companion told you -- to 400,000 euros, of the 700,000 that are at present. It would allow for a greater collection, even if it is not excessive; it would allow for the collection of wealth tax more or less — it has quoted — 28 million euros, which we understand would be important at this time also to help those who need it directly as a result of the pandemic. You have in this a very clear strategy, which is to give up your own tax capabilities, your ability to raise your own taxes, and then set up a strategy of permanent confrontation with the Government of the State in demand of more and better funding. It's a strategy that you do when you rule the Socialist Party; when you rule the People's Party in Madrid, it doesn't. And it's obvious that in this context, where income is falling, the collection as a result of the pandemic, where spending increases, the logic would be to rethink tax policy, but not you; you continue to insist on tax benefits as if public services were not financed by taxes. And there comes your speech around the evil of taxes. It gives the feeling here that paying taxes is bad. It will give the feeling with your speech, with the speech of the People's Party, that people don't have to pay taxes. I think you have to explain these kinds of issues, because public services have to finance them, and they're actually funded by taxes; I don't know if they're funded in any other way, but normally by taxes. And here I would like to give a data on the tax on heritage transmissions, where we see no harm in the bonus on the tax on heritage transmissions. You mentioned especially in the morning — I don't know if I took the data well — that 87,000 people in the under-occupied areas have benefited from this tax exemption or bonus. It may have benefited 87,000 people. What I don't know is what impact this has had on people's fixation, job creation in those unoccupied areas, that kind of bonus. Because people end up living in these small municipalities -- I live in one -- basically if you have a job, if you have a public service, if you have a doctor, if you have a school, if you have a nurse. If this doesn't exist at all, then people go, as you know. And, therefore...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u91	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u92	...it's good to pay taxes, but it's important to finance public services that are of quality, and that doesn't happen, logically, what you've proposed in my people, in Verín, which is to close the hospital as a result of the lack of funding. [[Applause]] I'm done. Then I continue with the administrative measures. Just to finish -- it doesn't give me much time -- in relation to administrative measures...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u93	He's got another shift later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u94	Well, another shift. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u95	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u96	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. I'm not going to talk about taxes. We are going to change something from the third in the debate in this final line. And also I'm not going to talk about taxes because what's less in this accompanying law is precisely taxes and taxes. Like every year, I think in last year's debate I told you this was like the tower: we always came back for Christmas; because this year there was no pandemic that could do that. We are here another year — and it is already eleven years ago — by discussing an accompanying law to the budget project in which you are introducing more than twenty, indeed, more than twenty laws, twenty-three laws and two decrees which are amended, which have nothing to do with the budgetary application, nor at this time have anything to do with the practical whole, as I shall now explain, with such an exceptional health, economic and social situation that we are living in our country because of the pandemic caused by coward-19. And that's the first reflection we wanted to bring today from BNG. You will remember, in addition, that in this country, by saving the distances, we lived in 2017 a very complex situation because of the wave of fires, and the accompanying law was used to introduce regulatory amendments to the Welsh legislation to deal with that situation generated by that wave of fires. You do not use or use this Act of accompaniment, which is absolutely exceptional, to face an exceptional situation like the one this country is experiencing. We would understand, for example — they know what our opinion is, we are completely contrary to this legislative procedure — that it could be used in the face of such an exceptional situation as the one that are living in the Galicians and the Greeks, an unprecedented situation, in addition, in a context in which we remember that this country has been without ordinary activity, without legislative activity, since February. We could understand that in that framework, or in that context, if this accompanying Law was used to introduce legal amendments that would allow for a better and above all a more agile response to the situation, to the health consequences, but also — and above all — to the social and economic consequences that it brings with it, which is already bringing about curfew-19. I am sure that we could, if they did not use that, give a very different debate on the content, for example, on the substance of the proposals you brought, whether or not they were the appropriate measures, the measures that this country needs, whether they were the most useful or if they were the most necessary. But they decided not to. In fact, of all the changes that are introduced by this way into the Accompanying Law, Counselor, only five, only five of a normative text consisting of thirty-two articles, only five have some relation to the Covid-19. Article 1, tax rate bonuses, only for the gambling sector, casinos, slot machines and bingos. It must be that they are the only ones affected by the economic consequences caused by the pandemic and I remind them, speaking of laws, that you have committed yourselves to bringing to this chamber a change of the Game Law of 1985, which still reigns in this country, a new Game Law that we are still waiting for it; I don't know if people are expected to forget. [[Applause]] Since the BNG, I assure you, no. Article 3, also exemption from the payment of water canon, mainly to the hospitality, restoration and tourist sites, that is, from November 5, in those cases where consumption is reduced or is going to be reduced until the health emergency is over, at least 25%. The second additional provision refers to selective or supply processes resulting from the health emergency situation. Additional third, special measures for the recruitment of workers, temporary or temporary staff against the cod. And the change also, as you explained, of the rates in the use of harbour spaces, a social cry — you must remember — a claim and a demand that has been asking for the sector since the beginning of the pandemic. Everything else — and I insist: we speak of a law that consists of thirty-two articles — are reforms that have nothing to do with the pandemic or budgets. They are, in fact, the same laws, the same laws that modify you year after year, using an exceptional mechanism, such as these accompanying laws, effectively legal, recognised as such by the Spanish Constitutional Court, but absolutely exceptional, from then on far away from the conception we have of democracy or the concept of legislative modification that defends and practices the Nationalist Block of Wales, to the point that you — and never said better — have made the rule the exception. It is a debate — I say — like the tower, which returns every year. He told Junta, in the briefest and smallest exposition of motives with which they justify and accompany this text of the Accompanying Law, that they are tax and administrative measures—also said the spokesman of the Socialist Party— whose changes have a vocation of permanence in time. On the vocation of permanence in time, if I may thus be allowed the colloquiality with which you have given us all and to everyone in this debate day, I must tell you that they have a concept of permanence which is shorter than the peak of a doll, Counsellor. [[Applause]] And let's see: what do you read reform? What's happening this year? I take these debates, really, as well as anxiously, don't I? Galician soil law, adopted in 2016, four years in force, has been modified five times, with this one we are going for the sixth, all of them reforms planned through the Accompanying Law. Law of Galician natural heritage and biodiversity. This is last year, from the month of August to be exact, we've already made two changes, both of them also through accompanying laws. They say to clarify concepts. You have to clarify them in the house before, don't you? Forest fire law. This is a classic, that's a classic! Seven reforms lead, which alter once or several times the practical whole of its articulate. They've changed the articulate that makes up this Forest Fire Law that's already coming back. They repeat, tripitate and qualitre in the case of changes in articles such as those collected and provided for in this Accompanying Law for the year 2021, which is Article 12, which is already for the fourth drafting; Article 16, which has been reformed five times; and 20 bis, which, with this, are already five times that have changed it. Land Mobility Act, 2011, fifth reform, to see what lasts! Because if we listen to the announcements they make through the website of the Galician Union, there comes a new Land Mobility Law; then we don't know why it's going to last until the year that comes with the accompanying Law or just a few months until they bring the next text. What are they doing this year? What's our turn? Article 47 ter, which you really created and introduced through the Budget Accompanying Act of 2020 last year, to give legal coverage to the model village project. Look at that vocation of permanence! One year lasted exactly what they created last year. They now add a new paragraph 47 quater, to see what lasts this one, as far as they talk about the Land Bank. The Land Bank, that same Land Bank that you defamed, insulted and dismantled eleven years ago for pure political sectarianism, we will never tire of repeating them. [[Applause]] Now they came in a hurry or the deal, we don't know very well, because of what they said eleven years ago, which was the sovietization of the countryside. He'll never forget us. Galician Mountain Law, another classic, adopted in 2012, eight years in force, eight reforms, and with this one today, comes forward, nine. And it could follow the rest of the intervention, with each and every one of the rules they plan to reform by taking advantage of this back door for which it takes everything: the Water Law, the Road Law, the Fisheries Law, the Ports Law, the Social Services Law. And I said: because they will take advantage to increase the ratio of direct care staff in the residences in front of the panorama that we've been living in the last eight months in this country; they will harden — I know! — the sanctions to non-compliant companies — precisely like DomusVi — those who are not complying with those ratios that set the rules, pirrica, but that they still don't even meet; they will take advantage to reform — as I know! — community social services, suffocated with lack of resources and personnel, to meet what is happening to us, to speed up the ratings of the unit — I know! — to guarantee better working conditions to the workers of the SAF. No, no, they just change a paragraph to include in the family unit the children and children over the age of 18 who still live in the house to be able to access the freeness of the children's schools from the second childhood. Law, 2014, accessibility. So they can reform it? "I was wondering." To develop it, how do entities ask us to work and represent people with disabilities and reduced mobility in this country, to try to speed up the deadlines and what is actually met with the fundamental rights of these people? To recognize new rights? No, to basically change a word, and where he said, "special action plans," now he's going to put "municipal strategic plans." That's what this Accompanying Law is used for. The Law of Cooperatives, the Law of Sport, Grants, Transparency and Good Government, the Law of General Protection of Consumers, and thus a wide list of up to twenty-three distinct laws that modify one and one pen. A subterfuge—I insist—legally, yes, according to the Constitutional Court, but it is certainly not or is far from the conception that we have of political debate and democracy from the Nationalist Block of Wales, and that they use over and over again, repeatedly and steadily, to reform, in an accelerated manner and stealing from the necessary political and social debate, the legal order of this country. I insist: twenty-three laws and two decrees that modify a pen. And they resort to this mechanism without any will of dialogue, of course, not with the groups that we represent in this chamber, but not with the social sectors that affect the regulatory changes that you include in this Accompanying Law. And that unilateral position, that inability to hear, to dialogue, to negotiate, to debate, that attitude of unilateral position is what leads them, year after year, to modify, over and over again, not the same laws, but directly the same articles. That's where last year they put fifteen days this year we put thirty; and what's next, what's going to be: forty? Kings, captains and champions of legal security and budgetary rigor, changing over and over again, insatiibly, the same laws and articles. It seems to me good to say many times, that if you want to change the Fire Law, if you want to change the Mountain Law, if you want to change the Land Mobility Act, or any other one, do it. They have absolute majority, capacity, and it's perfectly democratic, but they bring it through the ordinary way. They allow for the political and social debates that this country deserves and needs. [[Applause]] You can't even rule like this, the impulses, the blow of occurrence, or how we get up one day in the morning. Because that, in addition, generates very great insecurity for people, who are the ones that affect these laws, which we are all and all. I wonder how long the changes will last, this compendium of reforms that introduce this year: one year, until the next Accompaniment Law?, six months, until the door enters that Land Mobility Bill? Finally — and this concludes — we do not share this form of legislation, we say it every year with each of the debates of the accompanying laws, we do not share from the BNG this way of introducing amendments to the legal order of this country by the back door, stealing the necessary social and political debate. But it is that, in addition, not even on this occasion, and in the face of such an exceptional situation and context as we are living in this country, inevitably marked in all areas of our life by the pandemic and its social and economic derivatives, they did not even want to take advantage of this exceptional mechanism to effectively cope with this exceptional situation and therefore use this law for some purpose that really serves to enable the Government and the country to have better and more agile tools to cope with this exceptional situation. No, they decided to use it for the same, absolutely the same thing as ever, in the same routine, which is trying to speed up the reform processes and put all you can in that tailor's drawer. It is, if I may be allowed, an attitude and a law for vacancies — I tell you this with absolute frankness — not to have to come here to do what must be very costly and very heavy, as can be a process of ordinary legal processing and reform, with all its time, with all its deadlines, and above all — and most important in democracy — with all its debate. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] It is in favour of or against the amendments made by the spokespersons, in this case by the non-amendant group. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u98	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. We are debating today the amendment to the whole of the Law of Measures because in an exercise of unprecedented political hypocrisy, Mr Rivera, and I say this because in the last budgetary exercises I was the rapporteur of this same law, that you said that in fact for several years it has been routinely dealt with because it is an ordinary law, it is not a law to accompany the budgets of the Council of Galicia. I always say I don't share that it's the best legislative technique, I don't share that it's the best instrument of legislative technique. But there is also a need to be fair, and there are issues in the law that solve problems, and politicians are here to solve problems for people, not to generate more problems, and much less to generate doubts about a legislative text that, as you said, is legitimate, but passed 75% of your intervention by questioning their legality, constitutionality and legitimacy; I always put the collection "effectively"; no, no, it is constitutional even though there are particular vows... I claim the work of the people we are in politics, and I insist that we are going to solve problems with citizenship, and this law solves some. Besides, you said the political debate was stolen. I believe that today is the first debate we are going to have on this law, and there is still a lot to do: the partial amendments remain, the debate remains in committee and the debate is again in this plenary session. But there's also an instrument in this parliament, on the web, called "Lexisla with us," and in case someone has any doubt whether or not people know about this resource, telling them that right now there are twelve legislative texts hanging out on the website and five of them have comments on citizenship. Therefore, citizenship knows the resource and citizenship participates in this resource. They can't say we stole their social participation in this case. By the way, Mr. Rivera, twelve legislative projects right now in the Lexisla with us, 21% of those fifty-six of you came to boast here that made the Bipartite; in a hundred days of government the truth is that twelve legislative projects, plus those that are about to enter the House, I think it's an important data. I used to say that I was beginning my exposure by saying that we were attending an exercise of hypocrisy -- hypocrisy, I could also say -- higher-level politics, and you were laughing. They laugh I don't know why, because in this chamber you criticize the legitimacy of the Law of measures as a legislative tool and, at the same time, the Socialist Party, the Government of Spain, is processing a law of accompaniment to budgets because, look, with forty final provisions that amend no more than thirty-four laws, through the back door, with opacity, without political debate, without social participation. The whole story you told us today here applies. But what's the most serious? It is that, in fact, those thirty-four laws that amend the Accompanying Law — because that is a accompanying law, it is not an ordinary law — that Act of accompaniment to the general budgets of the State, have no relation to budgetary matters or are related to the economic policy of the Executive, and so they were warned by the House's lawyers, the Congress of Deputies. There is a legal report, Mr Rivera — and it is not a particular vote — that is the legal reports of the House's lawyers — the difference of this law that we are debating here today, which has no question of the House's lawyers. As our President of the House says, Mr. Santalices, here in this chamber do what the lawyers say, not like others. But, well, it seems that you guys have been spending a lot of time with the left ones lately, and it doesn't seem like they're getting caught up in things they shouldn't. Well, because I said it's not a particular vote, it's an opposite report. And what are you going to do? Are you going to remove those forty provisions that modify thirty-four laws from the back door, Mr. Rivera? Because, of course, you said on several occasions: it has to be connected to tax and financial matters. That is exactly what the ruling of the Constitutional Court 76/1992 says, but it does not say it for the autonomous laws, it says for the accompanying laws of the general budgets of the State. So — I think that you know — you have come here to do an exercise because you have a little twisting the legal arguments of the Constitutional Court, which — I insist — have nothing to do with this. And what do you change the State Law? Well, look, the Law on the regulation of the game — oh! go, go, the Law on Vegetal Acquisitions, the Law on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector, the Law on National Heritage... as I said, the House's own lawyers warned that several amended rules do not fall within the doctrine of the Constitutional Court. In particular, they mention in their report, Mr Rivera, the reform of the Institut de la Mujer body, which incorporates many articles and even the change of name: Institut de la Mujeres, as if there were no other legislative priorities in the area of equality. I invite the Socialist Party's lordships to review the State Covenant against Gender Violence, because they are sure to find some other priority — I would say: many more priorities — than to change the name of the Women's Institute to the Women's Institute. Or even as initially included the provision to authorize the transfer and dispose of the Crown's immovable property for public or private purposes; also another priority of the Socialist Party. [[Applause]] And we also have the example of the progressive Government of Valencia, which this year — if you want to go to self-government, Mr Rivera — issues a law of measures which amends thirty-four autonomous rules, and this law does respect the doctrine of the Constitutional Court. That is, for you in Valencia, where the Socialist Party governs, the Accompanying Law is an instrument for agitating procedures and solving problems, but not in Galicia. Look, as long as they don't say that the Government of Spain and the Government of Valencia act with opacity, improvisation, without ideas, confused, breaking the principle of legal security, stability, with a clear democratic backwardness, a deterioration of the political and legal quality of the parliamentary debate, we won't accept that they say it in Galicia for ruling with the same legal instruments. It's not worth saying one thing in the opposition and another thing where they rule. It is not worth supporting a rule questioned by Congress lawyers because it is presented by the Socialist Party. By the way, the BNG super MP did not implement that part of the State Budgets Act and in his debate to the whole he did not refer absolutely to one of those provisions; so they should also take note. But I was saying that it is not good for you to apply that rule, which is questioned — I say — to the lawyers of the House only because it is presented by the Socialist Party and criticises a rule without legal objection in the Galician Parliament only because it is presented by the People's Party. Look, ladies and gentlemen, nothing prevents the debate on all the issues covered by the law. The setting of reasons and the justification memory of the preliminary draft is sufficiently explained by the regulation that is contained. Why don't you like the law? Why does it set tax exemptions and subsidies for the sectors most punished by the crisis? Of course, in view of the fact that your proposal always comes up with taxes — and not just the rich, because the Diesel thinks it's not a luxury article, I understand that you don't like the Popular Party to lower taxes. Or do you not like the law because it establishes conciliation measures for public staff?, why do the benefits for maternity, adoption and breastfeeding for public staff be extended?, why does it regulate the device that recognises to companies the Welsh certification of excellence on an equal basis?, why does it favor the inclusion of women in the world of work, the pay gap and can enforce business equality plans to avoid discrimination on the basis of gender? Given that its priority in the area of equality is to modify the name of the Institute of Women by the Institute of Women, I understand, ladies and gentlemen, that you do not like the Law of Measures because it shows contempt for equality policies, in a context of unprecedented pandemic and economic crisis that the most affecting women is. I was surprised, Mrs. Rodil, that you had not included precisely these changes in your report of the five that said they were affected or specific to the pandemic. Because the truth is that these changes in the field of equality, I think, take into account that the crisis is on with women and that there is a replay of inequality by the impact of the pandemic. And I believe that it will deepen that companies comply with the equality plans to avoid the pay gap and to deepen that companies scrupulously comply with non-discrimination on the basis of gender and deepen the distinction of equality excellence, that you come here and that does not include it in the issues affecting the pandemic, frankly, I was surprised by coming from you, precisely because I think you have sensitivity in this area. You just said here that this is the second son, that the other brother is 18 years old as that, well, that was a minor matter. Home!, I remember that in the Committee on Reactivation an attendance came to say that the fact that the Council of Galicia approached the second son's gratuity was fundamental for many boys and girls to go to the children's schools, that surely if there were no such gratuity many would not be going to the children's schools. Home!, I believe that increasing the age of the second child — or of the first, in this case — is to expand the spectrum of boys and girls, families who will benefit from this situation. And you remember that in the reactive committee you even came to ask that the first one be free. So, well, that you don't even include it and that you even want to ridicule it here a little bit like saying that, well, it's not a priority issue for us, Your Honor, it's a priority. Nor does it seem good to you that measures are being put in place to strengthen fire prevention systems. No protection measures are included for public employees who are victims of terrorism. I suppose, of course, that considering that for you Otegui is a man of peace and is now part of the leadership of the State because it is understandable that you do not like the Law of measures. Mr. Rivera, you talked a lot about the legislative technique and nothing about its content. I guess because you like the changes and you're okay. Mrs. Rodil said: well, this is about changing the laws every year, because this has to be changed from home. Well, he's been very nice, but look, Mrs. Rodil, the laws are there when it comes to law enforcement. Of course, of course! [[Mrs. Rodil Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] In fact, the Galician Union is processing every day files and, logically, finds evidence and difficulties. And you know what the legislative procedure is for modifying a rule by a point of order that, I insist, allows debate in this law, and that you say it doesn't seem normal to you... Then Mr. Rivera said that autonomous laws would be breached. It's false, Mr. Rivera, it's absolutely false, because, look, the previous public consultation is not mandatory when partial aspects of a matter are regulated, and therefore Article 9(c) of the Transparency Law, as you said. And you fail — I think not deliberately — to think that Article 41 of the Lofaga, which is also an autonomous regulation and which says: "It may be excluded from the prior public consultation procedure in the case of budgetary or organisational rules of the General Administration of the Autonomous Community of Galicia or of dependent or related organizations when there are serious reasons (...) or when the legislative proposal has no significant impact on economic activity, there is no requirement relevant to the recipients or regulation of partial aspects of a matter"; Article 41 of the Lofaga, Mr Rivera. The ESC's report — this is a classic — is not mandatory, we've explained it many times and I won't waste any time, which I have little time. You can read the Journal of Sessions, which I explained last year, the previous one, the previous one, and all the others. Look, you said the Land Law. Of course, they say: this year you change the same article as last year. Sure, but, look, do you know where this change comes from? It is because this amendment is proposed as a result of a requirement for discrepancies formulated on the initiative of the Ministry for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge for the amendment of Law 7/2019 of 23 December. That is why, Mr Rivera, the articles are amended because it is an agreement within the bilateral Commission. Well, another question. It is contradictory, Mr Rivera, that you in your amendment to the whole criticise that the Law of Measures regulates matters other than tax or financial matters and, at the same time, criticizes the same text as the Law of Measures does not affect the modernization of administrations. Hey, I invite you. In this chamber, there is now a law to support Galicia's economic reactivation, which will introduce a lot of questions related to modernization, the axillization of procedures and files, and I think that this is the place, and there can give you all the debate that you say is stolen. And, on the other hand, they say we'd better put it into the law of measures. The truth is it's complicated to follow them and take them seriously. Because -- I insist -- in the government of the state, in the government of Valencia and in many autonomic governments they are making laws like these, and you where they rule fan and where they don't rule critique. Let's go back to the usual: do what I say and not what I do, one thing in the government, another thing in the opposition; and so, gentlemen, you can hardly take them seriously and you can hardly have some credibility. It's over, Mr. President. This law strengthens equality policies, reduces fiscal pressure on sectors most affected by the crisis and modifies legislation that improves the implementation of forest policies in rural areas, and solves problems and difficulties in the administrative records that are emerging every day in the autonomous administration. And I think — I insist, as I said before — politicians are called upon to solve problems rather than general problems. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica. Amending groups. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Francisco Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u100	Thank you, President. Mrs Prado, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know whether this is a law of accompaniment or not technically speaking in legal terms, but it is true that it is a law that accompanies budgets, a law of measures and changes a multitude of rules; here are twenty-five rules; finally, a box of tailors. And this is part of the repetitive debate in this chamber about this kind of law. But it is true that the legislative technique has been used continuously over the years by the People's Party, by the Government of the Union, in this chamber. And I told you, in fact, that since 2016 — if I haven't spoken badly, and if I have spoken badly — they are being changed in this chamber, including these amendments that include the Law of Measures, one hundred and fourteen standards. And I set the example that in the Bipartite, in that ostentatious Bipartite, guilty of all the evils that have been done and that there have already been in the past, in the present and also in the future, if the budget laws were passed without the need to accompany them under the Law of tax and administrative measures. Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Applause]] You come here to oppose the opposition, confronting the Government of Madrid, in a legitimate strategy — each one has its own in this debate — but we're talking in Galicia. I try to spread my limited capabilities here in this autonomic parliament. [[Applause]] I say that this Democrat Bipartite has adopted fifty-six laws, fifty-six laws for the ordinary procedure, with public debate, a political debate, with reports and, of course, with social debate, and also allowing the opposition to discuss these kinds of rules in Parliament. What I say is that in what goes from past legislation to now the People's Party, the Government of the People's Party, unique and exclusively discounted the laws of budgets and accompanying laws or Law of measures, unique and exclusively was able to approve fourteen laws. So this points to the initiative, the capacity, the work of the Government of Galicia. That's what I said. And with regard to the administrative measures, which you tell me I didn't talk about them, it didn't give me time. Indeed, they change — some of them have already referred to the spokesperson for the BNG, I will not insist — the Land Mobility Act. Here you've been waiting for a new law of recovery and value of land for a year and that law has not arrived. In fact, there are six reforms, five of them through the Accompanying Law. It has already been mentioned here at the Land Bank — I will not insist — of that defamed Land Bank ten years ago and which today seems to rise through the model villages. It changes the Law of the soil... sorry, it amends the Law of water too — I want to make an incision here — because you set here an exemption in relation to the cannon and the green coefficient for a particular type of economic sector, linked to the hospitality. Well, the economic impact of the measure, according to the report itself accompanying the Law of Measures, is EUR 92,600 and, in addition, limited in time since 5 November. 92,600 euros between 12,800 establishments that have been closed as a result of the confinement measures adopted — and in particular — by the Galician Union — which we respect, of course, are EUR 7,20 per bonus business. These are the aid and bonus of the Galician Union to the economic sectors, in this case through the bonus of the canon and the green coefficient. Land law, which changes, I don't know how many times — it seems to me to be the sixth reform. Indeed, you do not regulate this year that promoters can, as they have done last year, pay for urban use, 10% of urban use of urban and urbanized soil. That's something I don't understand, because in the Land Law regulations they say that planning instruments can be done by optionals who have a university degree. Man, it'll be logical for them to have. The planning tool is the norm for architects and engineers to do it. I don't know what this amendment is about in the land law. On the other hand, the Land Law, in fact, has been modified many times. It does not allow you to notice that there is security in the fundamental management tool for the city council set. There are many municipalities in this country that have not yet adapted their plans to the new Land Law. So, you change, you often reform the Law of the ground, but you can't finally order the territory in the country. They change the Mountain Law -- it was said here by the spokesman of the BNG. This one I think goes — finally, I don't know how many times already — on the fifth, through the Accompanying Law. And, in fact, here, what they do is they do alone and exclusively regardless of the capacity of self-regulation and take, copy the power, in this case the regulations...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u101	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u102	...state base. You change the Fire Law; it's already said it's a classic, I'm not going to repeat myself, because it's also changing Article 12. The Natural Heritage Act, the Public Employment Act — here I am going to stop. Actually...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u103	Don't stop too much, that we've been bad for a while.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u104	Excuse me, Mr. President, a minute, a minute and a minute. They amend Law 1/2012 of 29 February from temporary measures in certain public employment matters of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. Well, to be temporary measures, I think that, at last, we have to open a social dialogue table and, of course, put an end to this law, because eight years are in force a law of temporary measures seems absolutely excessive to me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u105	Thank you, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u106	I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u107	No, thank you, for...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u108	Just a second.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u109	Yeah, look at the tinglado and the watch.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u110	Well, I'm done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u111	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u112	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. As a previous question, indeed, who has a complex of Congress Members who are present at elections to the Spanish Parliament. Because it's an offense, but an offense not to the Block, but to this country. [[Applause]] What you can't just come here and embrace the self-government and the 40 years of the self-government statute in the morning and then convert this camera all day into an appendix to the Congress of Deputies. Do you want the self-government of this country? [[Applause]] They exercise it, which not only have the responsibility, but also the honour, the honor, the honor, the redundancy, of having to be the executive of this country, nothing more and nothing less, which is a very great responsibility, but also an even greater honor. And Mrs. Prado said that the goal of the Greek Government was not to generate more doubts or more problems. I wonder if it seems to you that it gives security, tranquility and certainty, Mrs. Prado, four times modify the same article 12 of the Fire Law, five times article 16 of the same standard and change the same article of the Land Mobility Act once and the following year. It seems to you that this is to give certainty, to give security, to give peace and not cause any more trouble to the Greeks and to the Greeks, which at the bottom they no longer know how much time they have, because one year they were told fifteen days to rub the strips of protection in the temples and the next year they were given thirty and then the next year they will be forty. And first it's 200 meters, the next year it's going to be 50 and again 150 three years later. That doesn't make any sense, it doesn't give security, it doesn't give peace, it doesn't solve problems, but it does generate them and creates them. And I honestly don't think you answer any other question but to a lack of political project, that you don't know what to do; so, I give bandages every time they hit the bell because something doesn't work and how much more pressure — I suppose — is capable of exercising a certain collective or a certain group more ability to introduce those changes one year after another with the accompanying laws. That's from a band. And then it's a degree of political hypocrisy -- and I have to tell you too -- that every year you give us a present here in your debate about "I don't like to use this legal instrument," but then they grabbed the taste that every year with the Budget Law we have the modification of more than twenty laws through this back door. [[Applause]] I didn't say I didn't agree that it was up to people over the age of 18 who lived and were — understand — also dependent on the budget of a family unit or home so that children under the age of 3 could have access to that freedom of second places in residence. We didn't say that. What we're saying is that there are a lot of things that would be worthwhile — and I think I made it very clear in my first intervention too — that we should be heeded in this Accompanying Act, if we really wanted to use this exceptional instrument — exceptional, I repeat — to face an absolutely exceptional situation. We do not share — I assure you — this way of changing the laws, we do not share it. But also -- and I said at the outset -- we would understand that, in a situation as exceptional as the current one, if you used that pathway, that mechanism or that agile and accelerated procedure to be able to introduce the changes that would allow the Government itself to have more tools and capacity to give a more agile and better response to the exceptional situation both health and social and economic that this country has. But they don't, they don't, and -- I repeat -- of thirty-two articles that make up the Budget Accompanying Law, the Tax and Administrative Measures Act for the year 2021, only five, only five, have to do with the pandemic. Because you, Mrs. Prado, what are you telling me? That that change in family units, in homes where there are people over 18 years of age who are dependent on home budget would not be calculated, that reform that you were talking about for the freeness of second childhoods in children's schools would not be introduced if there was not a pandemic situation caused by the coward? Or that the reform of what you were talking about in order to ensure women's pay equality in their jobs wouldn't be included if there wasn't a pandemic? Because you tell me we have to compute them like those provisions, articles and rules that are modified by a pandemic situation. Wouldn't they if there weren't? And the last one, already to finish and no longer prolong this intervention: do you know how many years ago in the Greek legislation it is mandatory or, in other words, it is a crime to pay less to a woman than to a man for the mere fact of being a woman, beyond that fundamental rights obviously already recognize, as everybody knows, that no one can discriminate against him on the basis of gender? Since 2004, and since 2007, these equality plans have been compulsory for companies since 2019. You have to go further, you have to go beyond the routine, from every year, from the autopilot and from the march. [[Applause]] We must be aware of the circumstances, which are exceptional and — the worst of all — very serious for this country. And we don't see it, even in this exceptional law that you should, if you wanted to use with a useful objective for the Greeks and the Greeks, include changes that would allow you to respond more agilely and, most importantly, better to the health, economic and social crisis that we are living in this country. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[Mr Prado del Río asks for a word.]] Yes, Mrs. Prado, what do you want the word for? On the basis of what Article of the Regulation? [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] Give him a voice. [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u114	Yes, Mr. President. Out of regard for the honourable Member, who every time he refers to me, every time he refers to a sentence of mine, he does it in Spanish, like when he said, "I don't like anything." [[Murmurs.]] I spoke in this gallery in German and I ask respect for my words.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u115	Well, but that's part of the...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u116	And if I speak in English, don't translate me into Spanish...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u117	No, no, please. That's it. It's not a matter of... I didn't think so. Point. No, no, it doesn't. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It doesn't work. Please, that's another story. That's what you agree with and take care of what you're talking about. That's another story, I don't... [[Murmurs.]] Well, let's vote, let's vote. It was a good day today to celebrate, because we're on our anniversary for the referendum that was made of the Autonomy Statute. That's what we all celebrate. And I've already taken my particular anecdote today to my house, which I have an anecdoteary where I'm going to record things that seem interesting to me. And this "tougher than the peak of a bean" seemed very interesting to me, it's an expression I liked. [[Laughter]] The truth is, I'll take her. Voting amendments to which the overall budget account changes or transfers appropriations between sections submitted by the GGs. [[Group II]] PP. of Galician Socialists and the Galego Nationalist Block to the Bill of Tax and Administrative Measures
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u118	We voted on the joint amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. We vote. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-21-DSPG017.u119	So the bill continues the parliamentary process. It ends here at this plenary session, and we'll meet again tomorrow at ten in the morning.
