ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, so we do not proceed to its reading. It justifies the absence of Ms Sandra Vázquez Domínguez, by motherhood, and exercises her right to vote for this session by Mr Pedro Puy. Proposal for a change of agenda
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u2	We would therefore enter the agenda. But before I enter the development of this plenary, I propose an amendment to the agenda. I submit to the House's consideration the amendment of the agenda consisting of the inclusion of a new item for the debate and voting, by means of a single reading procedure, of the Bill of the People's Parliamentary Group, of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia and of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, of the reform of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure in Galicia and, where appropriate, debate and vote on that bill. I suggest you if you can approve it by consent. It is therefore approved by consent and we will deal with this at the appropriate time. [[Assentment.]] This change in the agenda is therefore approved. We come to the first point, which is the Commission's statement. Take note of the Committee on the Statute of Members of the European Parliament of 18 September 2020 on the declarations of the activities of the Members of the European Parliament and of the Members of the European Parliament
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u3	The president, Mr Puy Fraga, has the floor for the presentation of the commission's dictation, for the time it deems appropriate. Do you want to do it from the scene? Whenever you want. [[Affirmation.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u4	Thank you, President. The Committee on the Statute of Members, at its meeting on 18 September 2020 and after the examination of the declarations of activities submitted by Members and by Members who were Members of Parliament at that time, has carried out their work in accordance with Article 16(2) of the Regulation, and in the exercise of their verification function has compared the declarations presented with the causes of incompatibility set out in Articles 4 and 6 of the Autonomic Law 8/1985, with elections to the Galician Parliament, and their conformity with Article 6 of the Organic Law 5/1985 of 19 June. After his work was completed, he unanimously issued the following statement: The Members of the 11th Parliament in Galicia are not at this point in time, the content of the documentation presented, in matters of incompatibility and, therefore, they can exercise full rights in the duties inherent in the parliamentary office.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Puy. You propose this approval by consent, if you have no drawback. Because it's approved by consent. [[Assentment.]] Thank you very much. Now if we go to the point I mentioned earlier, which is the proposal for a single reading procedure for the proposed legislation of the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, the Nationalist Block and the Socialist Parliamentary Group for the reform of the regulation. Proposal for a Council Regulation (EEC) on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the placing on the market of dangerous substances (OJ L 347, 20.12.1990, p. 1). of the Galego Nationalist Block and the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, reform of the Regulation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u6	There'll be two treatments. First of all, we will try to approve the procedure. All this taking into account that on 2 October, the Parliament of Galicia's proposed reform law was presented in the Chamber's Register on 2 October, at the initiative of the above-mentioned groups, to request that it be processed by the single reading procedure, which was admitted by Resolution of the Presidency of 2 October and ratified by the Bureau Agreement of 5 October, which was included as a new item on the agenda, in accordance with the provisions of Article 73.1 and 73.3 of the Rules of Procedure. The processing of this proposal for a single reading procedure shall be carried out in accordance with Article 134(1) of the Rules of Procedure. The parliamentary groups therefore have a turn to set their position, in this case on the procedure, which will be one minute and thirty seconds, and they can do it from the scene. We shall immediately propose your vote by consent. With which, the single reading procedure would be given. If this is agreed, the debate and the vote on the bill will begin, in which parliamentary groups will have a three-minute round to set their position, also from the stage. So let's start with the procedure. You have in this case one minute and thirty seconds to give a good visa on the single reading procedure. The Socialist Parliamentary Group begins, through its spokesman, Mr Gonzalo Caballero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. It is clear that it is appropriate to adapt all institutions to the times in which we are living and that, in addition to the fundamental issues, these adaptations must also be made in the greatest possibilities of speed to respond to any scenario we may have in the immediate future. Amending a regulation is a matter of high silence and which requires all regulatory guarantees. That's why we also have a very regulatory issue, which protects the rights of the House. But there is consensus and there is a guarantee regarding a text which has the favourable legal reports of this Greek Parliament and with the need for this Parliament to be in a position to work in any event, the Socialist Parliamentary Group is in favour of processing through the single reading procedure.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u8	Thank you, Mr. Knight. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u9	Yes, thank you President. At the BNG we agree with the procedure. It's exceptional, as is the situation. We must not in any case abuse this kind of quick processing, but it also calls for it to come into force as soon as possible, and we understand that it also meets what this House needs.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u11	Yes, Mr. President. Thank you. We also agree with the procedure of processing because we give the circumstances that we believe evaluate this procedure of urgency and that we are essentially based on a fact, which is that we are all in agreement. So, with unanimity in the House, we understand that the sooner this rule is adopted, the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u12	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Therefore, in view of the fact that the parliamentary groups have listened to it, this vote is put to the consent of the House, if it seems to them. So we give it up for approval. [[Assentment.]] The method of processing is approved, which is by single reading. We have come into what is in itself the bill, and for this reason there is a debate, in this case with three-minute speeches for each of the Members who intervene, to stand on the bill. Debates and votes of the Proposal for a Law, of the People's Party of Galicia, of the G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego and the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, reform of the regulation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u13	The Socialist Parliamentary Group begins, your spokesman, Mr. Caballero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware that we are living elements of uncertainty and uncertainty about what will happen over the next few weeks, months... of the next few days, and we must adapt all institutions so that the entire political system can be operational in any event. The Galician Parliament, in a parliamentary system and within our statute, is a fundamental institution that has to show its ability to respond to the problems that can be encountered in Galicia in any event. That is why we need to adapt the regulation both in matters of debate and in matters of participation and voting by each member of the House, so that in certain circumstances of health emergency, exceptionality or difficulties by a pandemic they cannot participate; this is a matter of country. And we want to do so, of course, from that willingness of consensus which has nurtured all the debates on this amendment of the regulation and respecting the whole spirit of the previous regulation, but adapting it to the new circumstances and the new possibilities that we all are concerned about. And we want to do it also by defending the importance of Parliament, because when this kind of issue is made it can try to be perceived or perceived by populist sectors or sectors that are against the system any type of appreciation, and what we have to say is that politics is more necessary than ever, that politics in times of pandemic is fundamental and that the Galician Parliament, where there is voice, concerns and demands of our citizens, must always be able to work; to work for the Greeks and for the Greeks and to do and to allow operationality, eliminating any risk or situation that may arise in the face of eventuality - that we hope that it will not happen - that it would hinder the normal functioning of Parliament, that in practice would also be a difficulty for the normal functioning of the political system and the country. So by picking up the proposal that has been made since the first time since the Presidency of the Galician Parliament, with the desire to cooperate and, of course, also following the rules and what is being done in so many parliaments around the world and also within our state of autonomy, we believe that we need this way of opening up, incorporating a new text, in the article that refers to participation, which includes participation by non-presental channels. We believe that if this text, this reform, has the backing of the House's legal services, it is time to take it forward to ensure that the Galician Parliament will always be in a position to respond to our country's demands. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u15	Thank you, Mr. Knight. For the Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u16	Thank you, President. Yes, briefly. Since the BNG, first of all, we are pleased that today we are debating this reform proposal as a joint initiative of all parliamentary groups, with all the forces of this House. We are living in an exceptional situation which also requires that we take exceptional measures such as this which ensure the functioning of Parliament in full performance and with maximum legal certainty in the event, for example, that a grunt is detected among the parliamentary groups. And we say that we are pleased that we can debate this joint initiative today, which is the result of the dialogue and also of the necessary debate between the groups and the capacity to agree, because most of the society in this country expects, precisely, that of us, the capacity of understanding and, above all, that we are aware of the enormous effort they are making and that they have been doing the Welsh and the Greek since the health emergency was decreed. The pandemic is a matter of survival, which no one else escapes. I'm convinced that no one in this House or outside of it expected to have to live a situation like this. And we were able to go looking for formulas to continue the House's activity, for example, in the exercise of the Permanent Deputy during confinement. But now we also have clear that it is necessary to go further and armor—I insist—with all legal certainty, the power that resides in this House and, with that, the rights and obligations that we are part of it. I already say that we are going to support this proposal for two main reasons: the first, because it is necessary, and the second, because it is very concrete. It would be necessary because this is not a bunker, and much less the Members we are part of the House are beings of light; we are exposed to cowardice just like anyone else. It is our obligation, therefore, as parliamentary groups, to ensure that the House can continue its activity, enabling the necessary measures if any of us — and hopefully not — are positive or are affected in any of the terms by the coronavirus. I say that it is necessary and also very specific, almost surgical, because exceptional situations require exceptional measures, but on the basis that the status of Members and Members gives rights, but also obligations and responsibilities, and that condition is inextricable. The physical presence of each and every one of us cannot and should not be replaced by telematic tools, unless — as we shall adopt today — for reasons of extreme need and public health, as is the case. Finally, we are going to support this proposal for reform of the Rules of Procedure - and I also say this, although it is a paradox - in the hope that it will not have to be implemented.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u17	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u18	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. President. First, I would like to express my thanks to the House's lawyers because they have contributed to the technical drafting of a regulatory reform which is, indeed, very precise and very aimed at maintaining the House's work in the hypothetical case — which we hope will never happen — which part of the members of this House, or even the whole House, must be confined. It's a thank you that I extend to the other groups because it's true that this was raised at the Speaker's Board that we had last September 15th -- October 6th -- and therefore it's true that it was a processing and a search for an agreement by all the groups to achieve a drafting that we could all assume. Secondly, I would also like to say that with this reform Parliament is also doing an exercise of exemplaryness, because exactly what we are talking about at this time of pandemic is ensuring that all people can develop their work. Certainly, ours has some implications in society -- because it affects all of it -- different to those that can be held in any other profession. However, it is an exercise of responsibility to demonstrate to society that we have to live with the pandemic but keep ahead of our work and, at the same time, take all the precautionary measures that, as it is evident, this House is taking. With this exemplary exercise, we also demonstrate general responsibility with regard to the attitude towards the pandemic. It is true that it is a problem of survival, which is an exceptional problem, and if we share the common objective of taking measures to minimize the effects of the pandemic, we are able to reach agreements that will be good for all. I therefore reiterate my gratitude and trust — as did the previous spokesmen — that this reform must never be applied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u19	Thank you, Mr. Puy. The single article of the bill partially amends the Rules of Procedure of the House so that, in accordance with the provisions of its last second provision, its approval requires most absolute approval. So, if you look at the Juridical Services, you can also submit to the House's consent, if you all agree. Don't you? [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] The lawyer, please... Mrs Pontón says it must be by vote. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, I suggest it could be... If you wish to vote, if you so request, you have your right and we do so by vote. We therefore put to the vote the single article of the Bill which partially amends the Rules of Procedure of the House, so in accordance with its last second provision, its approval requires an absolute majority. We vote. Vote of the Proposal for a Law, of the G.P. Galician People, G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego and the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, reform of the regulation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 73. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u20	I thank all the groups for their collaboration and their contributions as well; and all those people who aren't quoted here now but who helped us to draw up a text, which is what we have agreed to with consensually today. Thank you very much. We continue now with the next item on the agenda. Annual Report of the People's Valedor for 2019
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u21	The following point is the annual report of the People's Valedor for 2019. All this in accordance with the third standard, regulating the relationship between Parliament and the People's Valedora, adopted by the Bureau on 28 May 1991, Parliament's Official Bulletin 151. The plenary debate of the Annual Report will be adjusted to the following procedure: the Valator will present a summary of the Report before the Committee on Petitions on 25 September 2020. At the end of the day, the valet will leave the sitting room and the Members will begin their deliberations. In accordance with the order of action provided for in Article 80.1 of the Rules of Procedure, representatives of each parliamentary group may intervene for a period of 10 minutes each to determine their position on the report submitted. As a result of this debate they cannot submit motions for resolutions, given their information, without prejudice to subsequent regulatory initiatives. We therefore proceed to processing. I ask the vice president to accompany the valet to access the panel of speakers and to make his intervention before the plenary. [[Mr. Vice-President first, Calvo Pouso, escorts the people's valet to the floor of speakers.]] [[Pause.]] Thank you. You have the word of the people's valet, Mrs. Maria Dolores Fernández Galliño. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u22	President of the Galician Parliament, Members of the Bureau of Parliament, Members and Members, good days. My first words must be to express the condolences of the people's Valedora institution for the people who have died by the coward-19 and the support to those who have suffered the sickness and their families. They must also be of recognition to the people employed in all the care work, so necessary to be able to overcome the scourge of the pandemic. I also express the condolences of the People's Valley for murdered women, victims of gender-based violence, and their sons and daughters. Then I would like to remind you that, according to the Statute for the Self-Government of Galicia, the Valedora do Pobo is the high commissioner of the Galician Parliament for the defence, within the territorial scope of the autonomous community, of the rights covered by Title I of the Spanish Constitution. In my taking possession last August, I committed myself to Parliament and to the Galician society to develop, in particular, a decalogue for the promotion of fundamental rights and public freedoms of Greek citizenship. The decalogue referred to the following human rights: gender equality and non-discrimination; combating gender violence; eradicating moral, labor and school harassment; fighting human exploitation; the rights of persons with disabilities; combating discrimination against LGBTI people, youth, older persons or racial, ethnic or religious reasons; fighting poverty; digital rights; right to sound institutions; and environmental sustainability. With this approach of human rights to the People's Valley, it has deployed an important activity in the field of the promotion and defence of the rights of persons collected in chapter I of the report. This chapter — which will then be discussed — is one of the news of the 2019 Report. Feminism, fighting discrimination and gender-based violence. Feminism, as an identity sign of the institution, and the fight against discrimination and gender-based violence, are essential and transversal points of the decadelogue. In its development, the most outstanding actions were: we opened a virtual space on the institution's website to provide qualified reflections on equality and violence in a window that appears at the beginning under the title "We talk about feminism." Topics such as negationism, sexual harassment, references to historical characters such as Olympus of Gouges or Arenal Conception, multi-discrimination in relation to Gypsy women or older women, and the psychological or psychiatric perspective of victims and abusers. We drew close to the conclusions of the XXIV Congress of the Ibero-American Federation of the Ombudsman on gender and equality violence, relating to issues such as the need for cross-border laws of equality; the prevention of sexual harassment and sexist harassment in the field of education, including university; the evaluation of the victim's witness or the guarantee of immunity by denouncing. These approaches were incorporated in their integrity into the conclusions of the FIO, and this institution, the Valedoria, was congratulated on that. We signed an agreement with the three Welsh units for the convening of the Valadora do Pobo annual prizes on gender equality for end-of-grade jobs and end-of-masters jobs. It's also about recognizing the work of youth in the defence of human rights. We have published institutional communications on the occasion of dates commemorating the fight against discrimination and gender-based violence: the Day of the Fight against Gender Violence, wage gap, women's health and gender equality. We are moving forward in the cross-section of the gender equality dimension, in particular in relation to the fight against poverty and its feminization and with regard to older women with disabilities to avoid multi-discrimination. We centred on a consultant's gender functions with the idea that the institution's organization has an impact on its effectiveness. We held meetings with women's groups and organized newspapers and other public acts related to gender equality. We started actions by the office to guarantee women's right to access to justice, which were addressed to the schools of Galician lawyers to verify training in gender and professional matters and to assign the same lawyer to all family processes with minors. To this we added the satisfaction of the recognition received by the work on gender equality and the fight against gender violence, the 2019 Girls Prize, granted by the Government's Delegation in Galicia. Fight violence and harassment. In this context, I would like to stress the adoption of an internal protocol for the action of the People's Valedoria against sexual harassment, sexual harassment, discriminatory harassment and all forms of harassment and violence. The protocol is based on the people's commitment to adopt a zero tolerance policy with all manifestations of harassment and violence in the institution. It introduces the figure of confidential mediation, thus making prevention in the fight against labour harassment a reality. The deepening of the knowledge of the labor harassment, genuine cancer within the labour organizations, and the measures to combat it, allows us to suggest to the public authorities the desirability of introducing into the protocols against harassment the figure of the confidential mediator or mediator, so that it can be effective to prevent harassment before it becomes chronic or investigated. It fights against discrimination against persons with disabilities and the promotion of their personal autonomy. In this area, several actions were taken in 2019. We have prepared our presence with the Permanent Commission of the Galician Parliament for the follow-up to disability policies and for the development of new proposals for the integration of persons with disabilities. We analyzed issues relating to legal changes, inclusive education, employment, dependence and multi-discrimination, for example, disability assessments in the case of feminized diseases such as fibromyalxia or unacceptable unconsensual sterilization of women and children. We have made institutional communications on the occasion of the International Day of Persons with Disabilities; we have held meetings and fluid contact with associations to defend the rights of persons with disabilities; we have initiated informal actions on the evaluation of disabilities by the assessment teams, on accessibility at service stations, on health care, on morbid obesity, on evaluation during childhood of cases with a need for early attention or on attention to dependent people on holidays. Combating discrimination by sexual orientation or gender identity. As most outstanding actions in this matter, we have kept in touch with LGTBI human rights associations and have sent a complaint to the Ombudsman with an attached report in order to prevent and avoid reprisals for denouncing lesbian assaults. Rights of the poor. Fight apophobia. The institution also carried out actions to guarantee the rights of the poor and the struggle against aporophobia. On 17 October, Valedoria hosted the event held at the institution's headquarters and organized by the Galician Network against the Poverty of the International Day for the Eradication of Poverty, attended by people in poverty, marginalization and exclusion, representatives of human rights associations, representatives of the Galician Parliament, political groups and the Galician Union. The previous meeting had continued this year with the United Nations rapporteur against poverty, Philip Alston, from which two informal proceedings were held in connection with the embezzlement of homeless persons and with requests for identification of certain individuals from certain ethnic groups or races carried out by the local police in different municipalities. Protection of minors and older persons. Action was carried out on these subjects; two of them were taken from visits to one juvenile centre and another to an older residence. A third action was initiated in relation to the loneliness of older people and the measures taken by the Galician Union to avoid its most devastating consequences, including the death in loneliness. Discrimination of ethnic minorities. We have held a meeting with the Foundation of the Gypsy Secretariat, we also meet at the headquarters of the institution with a delegation from the Council of Europe for the Protection of National Minorities and we prepare a few days - which will be held this year - on the inclusion of the Gypsy people in collaboration with the Gypsy Secretariat and the Council of Culture. Right to the environment. In the development of the decalogue point on the right to the environment, several actions were carried out in the field of solid waste management on acoustic contamination in areas of special protection and green control in different municipalities. Right to strong institutions as one of the foundations of the rule of law. The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, the 2030 Agenda, are aimed at promoting strong, effective, transparent and inclusive institutions that respond to needs and account. At this point in the dialogue, the approval of the Charter of Services and the increase by more than 30% of direct, telephone and face-to-face care is noteworthy. The Public Transparency association, which applies a dynamic ranking of transparency, recognizes the People's Valedora as Spain's most transparent defender. The institution has been qualified in this way since the start of the ranking and remains the most transparent. Area of linguistic rights. Valdoria is an institution covered by the Galician Autonomy Statute. Article 5 states that Galicia's own language is Greek. This institution works intensively in the defence of Greek, even speaking to private companies or entities on which we do not have supervisory powers, and also requiring that these institutions' collaboration is good. In this and in others, collaboration with the institutions and entities that carry out the complaint work is essential, covering a greater field than citizens individually. Of the 48 complaints related to language crimes received during the year 2019, 24 were made at the Bureau for Linguistic Standardization or the Observatory for Linguistic Rights. Of the complaints processed, 49% were resolved positively after the file was started. We have held a meeting with the representatives of the Bureau for Linguistic Standardization and, as I have already pointed out, it has acted even with regard to private entities or foundations, such as medical mutuals, commercial establishments or entities responsible for the charging of metropolitan transport cards. Attention to citizenship. We entered the complaints and found that thousands of people, in fact, filed complaints and agreed to the Valedoria to make their consultations. In 2019, 11,747 people asked for assistance or advice. Of these 1,383 received face-to-face attention and 4,114 received telephone attention. A total of 6,250 complaints have been filed and 257 have been rejected, mainly because they are legal-private relations, because they do not initiate previous administrative action or because they are not of our competence, which results in a very low percentage in line with the pro actione approach, which inspires Valedoria's activity. We concluded 3,872 complaints and 2,043 were in process at the end of the exercise. In 2019, 67 field investigations were initiated, which covered persons with disabilities, minors, older persons, lawyers in family processes, specialization courses on equality and waste management or accessibility. As for the distribution of the administrations affected by the complaints, 88.04 % relate to the autonomous administration, 10,78 % to the municipalities and 0,37 % to the universities. The distribution by areas is proportional to the demand for public services such as health, social policy, education, environment, culture and linguistic rights, which is the area of its own extended culture in the 2019 Report. All areas, in number of 21, are collected in chapter III of the report. During 2019 a total of 95 resolutions were produced, of which 80% were accepted. It is necessary that, on many occasions, with the opening of its investigation, the Administration corrects the cause of the complaint, finally taking into account the citizen's demand, so the complaint is filed without a resolution or recommendation. For example, in health care and waiting lists, a percentage of more than 40% of individual complaints were successfully resolved, the same in the area of evictions and housing, with a percentage of more than 50%. Another of the news from the 2019 Report is the incorporation of each table area with positive conclusions. Transparency and good government. Finally, I will refer to the functions of the Law of Transparency and good government attributed to the People's Valedory. For this purpose, a transparency commission has been created as an assigned body. Transparency is fundamental in any democratic system; a deficit of transparency devalues democracy. Public information belongs to the citizen and is not owned by the Administration. The Transparency Commission has dealt with 185 issues and has resolved 182, with an estimated percentage of complaints over and above those of the rejected. There was an increase in respect of the proceedings in 2017, which were 132, and in respect of the proceedings in 2018, which were 148. The increase may be due to better knowledge of the right of access to public information by the citizen. The Commission's criteria and foundations are the free access to information, the restrictive application of legal limits and the consideration of public character without the need for accreditation of the status of the person concerned to access it. Here I conclude my exhibition. I appreciate your attention and remain attentive also to the contributions you can make. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u23	Thank you, Valor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] [[Mr. Vice-President, Calvo Pouso, accompanied the people's valet to leave the sitting room.]] Thanks again to the valedora. As you know, the traditional thing was that the valet could continue the debate from the guest gallery, but, in this case, as it also comes with her collaborator team, she will, exceptionally, do so from a room attached to this Chamber. So this is why today you won't be able to be, as I always did, up there in the rostrum. We started by fixing the groups on this report. First of all, you have the floor, by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Abeleiras.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u24	Mr. President, Members of the Bureau, ladies and gentlemen. Valorante, welcome, because I know you're listening around. I will not change anything from the report I have made, from the assessment I have made at the time in the Committee on Petitions. As soon as I moved to the valet and his team my congratulations on the work developed, I want to recognize that she started working in August 2019 and I'm not able to evaluate a work that has already been done before and that was the subject of a crisis and replacement in the Valedoria. When I was in charge of evaluating the Valdoria Report and I saw the volume, the truth is that I was a little bit, not surprised, but rather worried, about the responsibility that I was supposed to make a simple evaluation, a coherent evaluation and an evaluation that I had a lot to do with what was being written down and analysed. When I start to see him, I realize how easy it is to find itself, first, with a decalogue, and that, through that decalogue, Valedoria is developing each of the actions and complaints and that it has as its fundamental objective the defense of human values. My congratulations were made at your own time and, I repeat, I will surely do them throughout this performance. Seeing the number of citizen actions directed to Valdoria in 2019, I realized that perhaps they were due to the crisis that took place before they arrived. This gap between what I was talking about before gives you the idea that things can be done well and if you can do otherwise, that you just have to be consistent and really believe what you're doing, especially in the value of people. We must also remind the administrations, and primarily this government, that they have the legal duty to cooperate and the obligation to respond and that it is not understood that some advisors must be urged to respond to the requirements that Valedoria transfers. First of all, I'd like to acknowledge -- because it's an area that, by my journey, I especially value -- the sensitivity and work that is being done for women's rights and the fight against violence, with a new chapter of gender and with a window itself in the institution, which is called "Let's talk about feminism." I also want to welcome initiatives, such as the launch of the three Greek universities, the fine-degree awards, the feminist perspective. In spite of this, in the area of violence and equality, we cannot and must not be complacent, because we have a lot to do, and Valdoria has to be a more tool and act on its own initiative, as it has already done, to continue to focus on the delays and delays of the administration, in this case of justice, and to continue to urge the Vice President and the Council of Justice to resolve once again the problems in the protection of women victims of macho violence, which in judicial units have to share space with their abusers. It is a duty, and on this line you must continue to act. Even so, this Valdoria must continue to act -- and more forcefully do so when necessary -- when speeches appear that aim to address sexual freedoms and rights and identity. We note, with particular concern in this report, a collective complaint about the distribution by the ultra-rightist association Make you hear some booklets against LGTBI reality, in this case in the issue of education. It is paradoxical that the complaints - 166, or more or less!, on this matter - could not be completed during the year 2019 until the end of the failure to respond to the Education Council, which it took to issue the report. He replied after saying that it was the responsibility of the educational institutions - as always - that they did not respond at the right time. Finally, he was referred to, we understand, after asking the Commission two weeks ago how it was, but this attitude on the part of this government is still unacceptable. Inadmissible as a matter of such vital and important concern that it takes care of the rights of LGTBI people, and more so when, derived from Law 4/2011, of coexistence and participation of the educational community, the Galician Strategy of Coexistence 2015-2020 emerges, which has an educational protocol to ensure equality, non-discrimination and freedom of gender identity, in order to ensure that these values are real and effective among the entire educational community. There is also Law 2/2014, for equal treatment and non-discrimination of lesbians, gays, transsexuals, bisexuals and intersexuals in Galicia and the Galician Observatory against Discrimination by Gender Orientation and Identity. The counsellor is not here, but I dare ask him and tell him that the violation of the rights of identity and sexual freedom cannot be addressed as a minor matter and that the answers must be agile and compromised. [[Applause]] On October 1st, a girl took her life because she was unable to continue to endure a harassment situation at educational centers, next door, in Kings, in Bertamirans. He passed through two centers and was harassed, and I imagine he too as a child was harassed on all of them. That is why I would like the Education Adviser to be here, to take into account the importance of working on equality, the importance of working on education, the importance of returning to education in values, which is being lost, in order to be able to help all our students, children and children who suffer from harassment. There are things you can't agree on, there are things you can't do, and there are things you can't look at elsewhere, because that's the society we're creating for the future. Today, Valorante, you just presented the report on last year, the year in which no one hoped for what was coming. In this context of pandemic, many of the issues that have played a role in his report take even more courage. And above all, because 9 out of 10 Galicians go to the Valedoria, 9 out of 10 of these Greeks have a complaint addressed to the Greek Government, and 90% of matters have to do with the Union and only 10% with the municipalities, with which, ladies and gentlemen, I think they should reflect on this. Given the number and theme of this report, it is to take it very seriously. Once again, we note, unfortunately, that health, social policy and education are the most representative areas in terms of the kind of issues that concern the Greeks and the Greeks. This year, we all put on value as never before the work of health professionals and professionals. Well, when we read in the 2019 Report that it is one of the main sources of complaints in the work plan that comes from the staff of Galego Health Service, we have no more to share from the Socialist Group and even raise the tone of the recommendations gathered in this report on responsibility, precariousness and eventuality in Sergas. The eventuality, Valuable Lady, in the Welsh health, has been a serious problem and this Greek Government has to address it, and the new advisor must once and for all care that the conciliation and stability that Sergas's professionals and professionals deserve give better quality of service to the Greeks and to the Greeks. One more year we also check out the health waiting lists, the management they make of these lists, and the treatment they give people must be rejected. They don't derive them from private health; they move these people to this list, which have no kind of information about when they will be intervened, or sometimes they turn them into some kind of limbo. It is a matter that is also highlighted in this report, and among other things, it deepens in this demand for the need to strengthen public health and not to further dismantle it. In addition to the situation of professionals and the waiting list, we also have complaints from families with children with problems of access to pediatrics, especially in rural areas. Maintaining the context before the crisis and the pandemic this health situation in 2019 is even more important, as is the case in health, as we have already noted, the management of senior residences. It was, and more than ever, a capital matter, because the complaints and actions these past years have been no more than a call for attention on the nefarious model of residences. Now the vulnerability of our elders is evidenced, it's terrible, and as far as we're concerned, it's not being fixed or there's a lot of intention to fix it. Denied in this Parliament by the People's Party for a committee of inquiry well deserved by victims and families, I want to transfer to the Valuable Lady the need and the obligation to put all the sensitivity and reason of being of the institution which presides over the service of the dignity of all and of all, as it has been done. Precisely the coward has paralysed an investigation due to a complaint initiated in the residence of major DomusVi Barreiro —extensible to many of them—about the treatment of users; an investigation to investigate the use and abuse of the interns' system of subjection, or the measures taken by the Board to prevent the deaths of our seniors, whether they die or not, but what they die is sad.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u25	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u26	...—allow me one more minute——an investigation that you are committed to ending and that should be extended to all residences. This autonomous government has competences and responsibility and, unfortunately, because of the contact we have with family members and workers, this situation remains the same or worse. From the Socialist Group, ladies and gentlemen, we urge it to be a priority and that the pandemic not only prevents and paralyzes these investigations, but encourages them with more reason. Our older ones deserve decent attention, our older ones deserve to die with their families and die in their homes, if they have to. He was also talking about the digital divide in rural and cities. The socialists and the socialists argue that the pillars of our work must be the defense of the rights of the most vulnerable, end with inequalities in all sectors -- health, social policy, education and equality -- the housing as a right and bring to the Galician youth that is far away, and regain the talent that has gone away, and for that, ladies and gentlemen, there are only two ways to do so: by facilitating them employment, employment and employment, and by giving them access to a decent housing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u27	Thank you, Mrs Abelaras.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u28	Just a little bit about disability, I'm sorry. I want to remind those responsible to see how to fix, how to modify the Law of Horizontal Property, so that a disabled person doesn't need the unanimity of the community of neighbors in order to have access to his home. These are simple and easy things to do. A disabled person cannot spend his life on a ninth floor because someone in his community refuses to facilitate access. Thank you very much. I apologize, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u29	Thank you, Mrs Abelaras. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Daniel Castro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u30	Good morning. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, brave lady of the town. First of all, I'd like to congratulate you and wish you that your work would be as good as possible, since the better you go to your country and the better the institution will go to our country. And again we'd like to thank you for your attempt and commitment to expand equality policies. But starting with the analysis of your report, we see and we're glad that 66% of the people who contacted you or the institution did so in English, and we would also like -- that it's always good to contextualize -- that this reality of Greek as an institutional language is going beyond the sociolinguistic reality of our country. We also argue that the percentages of complaints from rural areas are more similar to those from the urban environment, without meaning to mean that the degree of promotion of the People's Valley should be reduced as an institution between the rural world and also between the urban world, because this remains crucial and because there is also a great ignorance of the institution, unfortunately. And maybe this can be observed if we look at the distribution by provinces of the complaints, since the most rural make less use of the institution if we compare them to the most urban. So, if we make a small comparison between Lugo and Ourense and Pontevedra and La Coruña, we see as 53% of the origin of the people complaining from Pontevedra, 35% come from the Coruña, 6% come from Lugo and 5% come from Ourense, so it's clear that there's still work to be done. Now, by focusing on what the Greeks and the Greeks say, if we look at who the complaints of the people and the citizens are, we see how 9 out of 10 affect Galician Union, so some problem -- even if it's minimal -- in this idyllic Galician region will have to be. And this is worrying because if we compare it with municipal administrations we see that only 10% affects municipalities; but not only that, because, given the areas or councils that are most affected, we realize that these areas are those that have a more direct relationship with the welfare of the people and the Greeks; that is, social policy and health, among others. And precisely by focusing on this issue, we highlight the need - that you stress and of which we are grateful - of the increase in residential squares. It's a fact, and over these months we've seen it, especially if we've noticed that WHO has been saying several years that it's necessary to reach a point of 5 residential squares per 100 inhabitants over 65 years. And now in Galicia, adding public supply and private supply — unfortunately, much bigger than the public — we have an average of only 3. Another fact that alerted us was the huge amount of complaints by waiting lists in health care, since the 409 files in this issue 186 relate to waiting lists. And these complaints tell us of deficits in two directions: since an appointment is requested until it is assigned a date and since it is assigned a date until it is carried out, and above all considering that we are talking about cases of serious illness, so we can't talk about numbers in the trash, since these are people who are desperate. It is very important that we remind all Members and Members of this House that we are not figures; please always remember that. [[Applause]] Very related to this too, we would like to point out that it concerns — as you have already done in the previous report — the imperative need for a regulation to be created that indicates the maximum time that can take since an appointment is requested until a date is assigned to it. As I said, I already mentioned the importance of this measure in last year's report, and we believe that in the current health context, in which there is still more delay — and more than there will be — in making appointments, this regulation becomes even more relevant. Health continues to concern us about many more euves such as primary care and the absence of pediatric services in many municipalities in our country — especially in my region, in the Navy. So we would like animals — within their powers, we know — to act on our own initiative against these impediments to access to our public health. If we now move on to the right of access to transport, we see how you alerted us about the need for greater coverage. And since the BNG we can do nothing but animal to continue claiming greater vertebration of public transport in our territory, because it's a problem of what our country has always been sickening and becoming more palpable, as always, in rural areas. And as most of it all, it's also in current times when you see the eaves in a more obvious way. Also related to rural areas, we saw a large number of complaints about access to coverage and access to the Internet in rural areas. This in the current context is of greater relevance to teleworking and tele-school, and especially since our country occupies the lowest positions in the Spanish state, only in front of Extreme, when only 61% of the Welsh and Welsh people can connect to more than 100 Mbps. This, of course, has generated and generated and will generate a decompensation and inequality between students and students and workers and workers who carry out their activities from rural to rural. So we also encourage her to demand greater access to the long band so that our country will once and for all be filled in the century in which we live. And not just because BNG says it, we're not asking for a panacea here, no, no, it's basically about meeting the percentages indicated by the so radical European Union. [[Applause]] And, like, we're also looking at the gender equality needs that it points out, and we see that it's very necessary and useful to form in gender perspective in lawyers' schools and in the Immelga, for example. But we also encourage the People's Valley to act on its own on this issue more forcefully, since this can only bring benefits to our country and to our society, because the coward has stopped the world but has not stopped the machismo and the patriarchate. [[Applause]] Finally, we would like to know what is the state — as the Socialist Party's companion has already said — of the complaints against homophobic, transit, ultra-right and fascist association, among many other things, Make yourself hear, since the area of discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity is the one most claims in the process. From the BNG we believe that it is necessary to act with all force and from all institutions — as in the streets — against these types of associations — by calling them in some way — that only they are devoted to spreading hatred between our society. And we do this because, unfortunately, we have recent examples of what this hatred causes, as is that of the girl of King King, younger, who recently took away life because of the harassment she suffered, among many other things, because she was bisexual. So since the BNG we want to send our support to the family and the close ones and tell these individuals that they're not going to take us back to what we've been doing. We're not going to take a step back. [[Applause]] And just like the Greeks and the Greeks did, we want to make it clear that you have no place in our country. [[Applause]] Finally — and I will finish — I would like to encourage the valet to complain whenever the greatest and best collaboration is needed by the autonomous institutions, as we see concerned and concerned as many advisors have received an important number of reminders and warnings in relation to their little collaboration with the People's Valedor on certain occasions. And so we can list the following: Education Counsellor, 6 times; Culture and Tourism, 4; Economy, Employment and Industry, 14 claims; Social Policy, 5; Health, 2; and Rural Environment, 5. So, Valorante, we recommend to you that you exaggerate with a greater degree the responsibility of autonomous institutions as well. Without that, I would like to thank you for your efforts and that of the whole institution, to encourage all the workers and workers of the People's Valley to have a greater performance and to wish them in the name of the BNG as early as possible and success because, as I said at the beginning of my intervention, their success and that of their institution will be the success of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u31	Thank you, Mr. Castro. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Valorative lady, first of all, we want to thank you for your work and that of your team; a job that deserves all our respect because it makes the institution great. We agree with the valet in giving priority to the issues which it has set out in its decadence since the first day that it was presented in this House by its appointment, based on the fundamental right of equal opportunities, through the eradication of gender violence; prevention of moral, labor and school harassment; trafficking in persons, trafficking in organs or begging; the defence of the rights of persons with disabilities; the provision of attention to economically and socially most disadvantaged groups; returned emigrants; and the fight against any kind of discrimination, whether LGTBI, young people, older, race, ethnicity or nationality. From the People's Parliamentary Group we wish to reiterate our congratulations to the valet for her work in the struggle for equal opportunities and against gender-based violence. Yesterday in this Chamber the Supreme Prosecutor of Galicia presented his memory, which had very worrying data on the high number of crimes in this matter. So it's essential to continue working on this issue and we believe that this work that you are doing from the Valedoria is fundamental to helping among all institutions eradicate gender-based violence. Not only that 2019 Girls Award, but that window on their website of "We Speak of Feminism" we believe it is fundamental, and also the agreement with universities to be able to further raise awareness of the youngest people in the struggle for equal opportunities and the eradication of gender violence; it is fundamental that constant and permanent communication with women's groups is essential to meet their needs and also to provide solutions to those demands and demands that are made from collectives. As Commissioner for Transparency, we also want to congratulate you on being recognized as Spain's most transparent defender; a model for all the institutions that you control, starting with the same one, giving an example, as you have just explained with the introduction of the figure of the confidential mediator, which is model not only for other administrations, but also for "create" companies in Galicia. I also want to say that the need to separate the victims and the aggressors was mentioned here. The Galician Judicial Infrastructure Plan, which has been in progress for ten years since the First Vice-Presidentship and Justice Council, has invested more than 100 million euros in new judicial buildings that already have that separation, but also in the remodelling of old judicial buildings, and in those who allow it have separate rooms, but in those who do not allow it we also have to count on the collaboration of the judiciary, which has the possibility to quote separately the aggressor and the victim so that they do not match in the judicial facilities. As for accessibility, I believe that both state legislation and autonomy allow such changes in buildings; and even the Greek legislation allows the expropriation of even lows or parts of the floors to make possible those lifts or such areas of accessibility. In the issue of work statistics, it's true that people are not figures, but the figures are the ones that give us the data to change public policies, to be able to adopt measures and to be able to adopt solutions in those cases where necessary. And in this sense, I wanted to highlight the good health of our health, since it always has high percentages and in this report it just goes from 6% of claimants: 409 complaints against 8,437 last year. This was 40.55 % of the total complaints from 2018, compared to 6 % of the year 2019. Just like the number of cases, taking out what collective complaints are, this year, 348, compared to 446 of 2018, that's 22% less. It is true that waiting lists are a concern, but, as the document says, it is very complex to adjust the supply and demand of health services mainly because medical pathologies are of different seriousness, so one cannot take into account only one chronological criterion, since prioritization must also take into account the criterion of the severity and effectiveness of the action, so that delays or cancellations of citations of one pathologies to give priority to others, logically causing an discomfort to that patient or the patient who delays them. But, in this respect, she confirms in her report that the maximum guaranteed attention times are being met, with priority attention to the most serious pathologies. We are going to reiterate a request we made in the Committee on Petitions. We're worried -- and we've already moved it to the valet -- that more and more citizens are victims of housing usurpation. On the one hand, it is what people who are illegally deprived of the enjoyment of their private property and, on the other hand, people who reside in the real estate where illegal occupations of housing are produced, and even in whole streets and neighborhoods, which become foci of crime, producing a strong breach of neighboring coexistence, creating obvious prejudices and limiting and violating the full exercise of their legitimate rights, something which cannot be allowed in a rule of law. The data is alarming. The data from the Ministry of the Interior of the first half of 2020 put Galicia as the autonomous community that suffers a greater increase in illegal occupations; there are 33.9 % more complaints in 2019. And these occupations are not the fruit of a social necessity, or they shouldn't be, since there are social resources to attend to them. They're made by mobs who turn occupation into a business, because they demand money in exchange for illegal eviction of the occupied housing, or they even use vulnerable people to introduce them to the previously occupied housing in exchange for a substantial amount of money. Even yesterday, the mayor of Santiago and the first vice president of the board explained that not only do they care about the high number of occupations, but they are the problems of coexistence that this causes in the neighborhood, and the logical concern that causes people who are legitimate owners, who threaten their right to private property. The Galician board, through the Environment Council, has at its disposal the Bono de Alugueiro Social programme, which currently finances 100 percent and has a housing park available to people in a situation of social exclusion for a decent housing. We don't know the social housing resources available to large cities in Galicia and we don't know how it works since the social services of the municipalities with people who don't have a home or with those who live in employment, especially in the case of families with minors in their office, who we believe are better in a housing legally than in an illegal way, because this also favors aporophobia. In view of the crisis that is causing the pandemic, we believe these cases will increase. We have transferred this issue to the Committee on Petitions, because, beyond the criminal or police consequences, we want to insist on this issue in the field of protection to the most vulnerable and at risk of social exclusion, as we address other social issues with criminal consequences, such as gender violence, labour or sexual harassment, sexual exploitation of women or even disability as the second cause of hate crime in Spain. We believe that - I insist - beyond the criminal consequences, we must seek solutions to these situations with prevention formulas or care for the most vulnerable. Article 47 of the Constitution establishes the fundamental right to a decent and adequate housing, but this dignified and adequate housing cannot be taken by force and with violence, but it must be the administration to which it must be guaranteed, because Article 33 of the Constitution also states that private property is a fundamental right that we have to guarantee. We, as High Commissioner of the Galician Parliament for the defence of the rights contained in Title I of the Constitution, wanted to encourage the valet, with a view to addressing people at risk of social exclusion and in the spirit of eradicating the Mafias of occupation that are taking advantage of the most vulnerable people, in the preparation of an extraordinary report on this issue in which three points are addressed: First, a diagnosis of the social resource map is made to meet the housing needs of both the Autonomous Community and the municipalities in which illegal occupations are mainly produced, the large cities. Secondly, the report should carry out an analysis of the reality of illegal occupation in Galicia, of the dramatic consequences both for the legitimate holders of the housing, who suffer from a calvary to recover their property, as for the neighbors who reside in the neighborhoods and affected buildings and who are seriously disrupted by coexistence, as well as for people at risk of social exclusion and most vulnerable, and on which are the channels available in the municipal social services to access the housing park in rent; of the council, if it has, and of the Board, through the Galician Institute of Housing and Solo. And thirdly, starting from the caustics and the calvary that have to suffer from owners, victims and people at risk of social exclusion, we want the current legislation to crumble and analyze its adequacy or insufficiency to address the problem, as well as the margin of improvement in the application of the current rules. Finally, we speak of an extraordinary report such as those that have been done on previous occasions, with matters of such importance as accessibility in Galicia, road safety, adolescents and the Internet, or the rights of people with intellectual disabilities. We believe the current situation requires an effort of all...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u33	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u34	...the institutions and we believe that Valedoria can address this issue rigorously and seriously, and that is why we encourage it to make this extraordinary report on illegal occupation in Galicia, so that, with its conclusions, it will help to put in place measures to eradicate this situation in Galicia, in full and involving all administrations, the Junta, the councils, the deputies and the Government delegation. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen, thanking once again for the work done by the People's Valley and for all its team, which we know are not many and that they work everywhere with this vast amount of complaints, both present and virtual, as well as those that are being done on our own initiative, that we too value very much both in the field of social inclusion and in the field of justice and even in the field of the environment. And we congratulate them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u36	...in the commission on waste management. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u37	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Accumulation of two appearances
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u38	At the presence of the Councillor for Culture, on his own request, the request is accumulated by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Opinion of the Councillor for Culture, Education and University, on his own request, to report on the start of the 2020-2021 course in education and at the university in Galicia and the events before the curfew-19 The opinion of the Councillor for Culture, Education and University, at the request of the Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, to explain the chaos that is taking place at the beginning of the course and that every day they denounce more officials of the educational community
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u39	To intervene in this audience, the Councillor for Culture, Education and University, Mr. Román Rodríguez González, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u40	Very good morning. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last decade it has been a constant thing for the head of the Education Council to come up with its own request in this House to address the start of the course. I myself have had the opportunity to do so several times in the past, and I take up this responsibility today. Still, we are all aware that today we are not before an ordinary appearance; it is not. And it is not because the 2020-2021 course, both in non-university education and in terms of the Galician university system, is clear and directly influenced by the exceptional times resulting from the pandemic of cowardice, in which we are all immersed. As a society, as people, we must be aware that while a health solution does not appear, we must learn to live with the coronavirus and that we have to adapt to a new reality; a reality that obliges us to be prudent, to apply the "senseful" and to respect in a very scrupulously manner the health indications. The truth is that teachers, students and families have clearly shown great responsibility and great prudence; responsibility and prudence to face together with the Educational Administration the challenge of a country that is supposed to put the training system of new generations of Welsh and Welsh. My gratitude, the recognition of the whole of the Greek Government, and my gratitude, the gratitude of the whole Union, for their collaboration and understanding, families, teachers and the whole of society. Our education system is a quality tool that is fundamental to social cohesion and to generate equal opportunities. Since the beginning of the health pandemic, Galicia has always had a position of collaboration and institutional loyalty with the ministries of health, education and universities. At the same time, he also exercised his own powers, which were assigned both to the Statute of Self-Government and to the Constitution as well. I can assure you that when I took over the responsibilities in front of the Educational Administration, I found that there was a valuable job done and, as it couldn't be otherwise, we got to work and push new measures with the new team, Let me first address the lines of action followed to start the school course, then to realize the collaboration maintained between the Galician Union and universities when facing this opening. So let's start with the non-university field. It's known -- I'm not saying anything new -- that the organization and start-up of a regular school course is always a complex moment, a moment of tension, a moment of change and a moment of some uncertainty, but it's also obvious that starting up the current course, the course 2020-2021, with the health uncertainties derived from the current situation, I have undoubtedly faced a challenge and an even greater challenge. Today, we can say that non-university education in Greece counts on this course with a total of 344,362 students, who, in their immense majority, attend the class in a face-to-face manner. We also have a series of indicators that account for the power of the education system: more than 77,000 dining places, between those borrowed directly by the board, the ANPA or the municipalities; and school transportation, almost 87,000 users to 764 educational centers. In addition to these data, educational centres are implementing the protocols established by the health authorities with both preventive measures and measures that obviously change the way they act when a case of shelter-19 is detected in people linked to the centres. The main conclusion, already a few weeks after the start of the course, is that the course is developing with great normality within a huge exceptionality, a great normality within a huge exceptionality! Unless very specific cases, with a very prominent normality, by the way, similar to what happens in these specific cases in other autonomous communities of the rest of Spain. So in September, the classes, as they are doing, must be understood as a collective achievement. We had to save -- we could define it this way -- an original sin that affected the planning of the start of this course, mainly in the fields of secondary education, bachelor's degree and vocational training. No one in Spain understood that on 27 August, a few days from the start of the course, if a sectoral conference was held that radically altered the planning carried out and carried out and the work carried out in secondary education, bachelor's degree and vocational training. There's been a change of approach that upset all the work done by educational centers in this area. Thus, in primary, the measures by which the educational centers, the management teams and the professors were working much of the summer to condition, to adapt the educational centers to the pandemic. They didn't change, so in primary and in childhood, the course could start with a great normality. It didn't happen that way in high school. In high school, she was working with an interpersonal distance of 1 meter -- by the way, she was defended by the World Health Organization -- and masked. However, on August 27, these parameters are modified and a new data is introduced: 1.5 and more mask. So, that means that all the work of organizing, planning, distribution of spaces within institutes suddenly changes, and changes radically. Obviously, things would be quite different if this sectoral conference were to take place sooner or later. I will give a brief account of the dynamics and evolution of the protocols so that we can realize the impact so important and so powerful that this measure was taken, as I say, at the end of August, a few days before the start of the course. Once you finish the previous course, Join starts planning the current course. In June, he began drafting a document, following the recommendations of the Ministry of Education, which are based on 14 generic points agreed at the Sectoral Conference on Education, held in this case on 11 June. In July, the school calendar was adopted and also in this month the sectoral bureau was the first covered protocol for the teaching of Greek; by the way, in July, the educational unions refused to make improvements to this document, as they rose from the coordinating and planning body. At the end of August, as I said, the famous 27th Sector Conference is celebrated. The conditions in high school are changed, not so in primary school, and it imposes a total replanning of the work carried out in schools. It also took the Galician Union one week to delay the start of the course in order to be able to cope with the mandates or requirements promoted and fixed at this sectoral conference; by the way, something not unpublished in Galicia, because other autonomous communities very close to it and with other political formations - for example, Asturias, with the Socialist Party - they did practically the same, and Asturias began the course in secondary school, bachelorship and vocational training later than Galicia did. As you know, September 7 is a new government -- by the way, we are today less than a day away from the constitution of the new Government -- and we had to start working on the result that we all know. The result that we all know is that the start of the course, despite some corners of siren, has been carried out and developed with a great normality, within the exceptionality that entails such a typical course, as are now in general all aspects of society, as atypical as this one that we have on the table at this moment. I would also like to expose the work that has been done since the Welsh Educational Administration. This work has always been marked by three basic principles: security, of course, right now, but also quality and equity; signs of identity of our education system. From the very first moment, we want to participate in the whole educational community of the great challenge that it means and it means to organize this course. Of course, we had an inter-administrative dialogue with the General Administration of the State and with other autonomous communities, and we had the full, and fundamental collaboration in this case, of the Health Council and other bodies of the Galician Union, such as Amtega, and we always thought it was fundamental and essential to join wills. We had an intense schedule of contacts with the educational community. The first was on September 8th, the next day of the take of possession. We had a working meeting with the heads of territory, with the heads of education in the four provinces, with a fundamental objective, which was and is to ensure the student's return to school and to ensure that educational centers are what they are, safe spaces. On 9 September there was a meeting with members of the Galicia School Council, the highest body of representation and participation of Galicia, which served to listen to it and to advance that the Council undertook to do its utmost to alleviate the effects of the cowardice on the teaching of Greek. The Council heard the School Council and also announced the placement at the disposal of the secondary schools of a series of organizational solutions - obviously validated with the support of Health - to adapt to the conditions laid down on 27 August. On September 11, we had a meeting with the Autonomous Board of Directors, in the field of secondary education, and we made the decision that day to delay a week, as I said, the start in this field so that educational institutions had time to adapt to the new situation. On September 14, we had a meeting with diversity care associations to advance a specific protocol for students with special educational needs. Also on 21 September, the first meeting of the Education Committee, an advisory body of the Government of Greece in the area of education, took place in the specific context of the pandemic of Covid 19. This body, the Educational Committee, articulates its work in four subgroups: school organization, virtual education, inclusion and vocational training and special regime teaching. I would like to thank the 35 members of this committee publicly for taking on a very important responsibility to carry out a multidisciplinary work, with different perspectives that mark a commitment to teaching in this exceptional situation. This committee was created to add and provide reflections and advice and to put forward new proposals that help the proper functioning of the education system, while also favouring participation and as much consensus as possible on issues affecting education. Of course, during this month less than one day, there were also multiple meetings with different groups from the management team. I would also like to point out that on September 25, we had a working meeting with representatives of the main organizations of parents and mothers of the Greek teaching, Confederation of the ANPAs of Galicia, a meeting that was used to expose the measures of the Council and to know the concerns of these groups. There were also contacts with ANPA groups, such as Foanpas or Fanpa, to improve the measures addressed to school lunchers and to design a specific protocol in this field for school lunchers. All these encounters with educational agents were adopted with a clear will, with a willingness to listen and face, to involve in a joint work, and I think that we all or almost all of us have been able to face this stage of urgency with a participatory attitude and a cooperative attitude. I sincerely hope that we can continue to do so, working together, within the discrepancy - obviously, necessary and even positive - but that we continue to work to ensure maximum health security and, of course, to ensure the right to education and to maintain the immense fortune that our education system has in the field of quality of results and in the field of equity in the integration of people. I would like to comment on another block of action, on the continuing adaptation of the Protocol and also on the organisational measures that have been taken. As I said before, the organization of a new course begins practically the day after the final course. And so it was done, a plan was made before the summer, an annual training plan for the teacher, a training plan with educational measures for the different teachings and also giving instructions. And also at the level of students, plans for reinforcement and recovery were developed in a custom way by teaching teams, to recover the essential learnings that were not acquired in the previous course for the obvious reasons that we all know. Ladies and gentlemen, we must face with serenity, but also with intensity, a pandemic that affects the whole of society and, of course, teaching. But we also have to ensure quality education and training -- as it was done so far -- for our students. And at this point, I would like to thank you here in Parliament for the great effort that all the management teams and the vast majority of teachers have made to adapt schools to the organisational measures provided for in the protocols. The basic and philosophical principles underpinning the Covid Protocol, which is defended and formulated both at the state level by health and education authorities and also in autonomic areas, are based and based on a number of principles: The first is the decisive and clear bet for the need to go to the centers, for the presence. The second is the awareness that outbreaks may arise at different times that require action. It is happening both in Galicia and in the whole of Spain and in the whole of Europe. The third is adaptability and flexibility in making organizational or health decisions. We have to evolve depending on the evolution of the pandemic as well. The fourth is the need for coordination - we demand more - between the autonomous communities and the ministries of health and education. And the fifth is the start-up, the generalization of hygienic-sanitary measures in the educational centers themselves, in the classrooms themselves. The Protocol is a dynamic document that needs to be adapted to the needs of the system and has to be adapted to the health, specific and specific situation at any time. His timeline has already been exposed: June, July and August 27. Now it's when the data from 1.5 meters to institutes, which really forces you to radically change the planning made, the adaptation made in the educational centers in this area in the months and weeks before. Galicia, on 31 August, adopts the Protocol arising from this Sectoral Conference of 27 August, and was Spain's first autonomous community to do so. At the beginning of the course, of course, action was taken and legal aid was needed. On September 24, the Council published a new update of the Protocol, which was improved by the incorporation of measures, both for ESO and for Bachelorship and FP, for which we heard the contributions of the educational community. We are talking about semi-presence, we are talking about the use, in those spaces that are so necessary, of mamparas, and these organisational measures have been taken by the health authorities; measures with the support of the health authority and which have been absolutely essential and are absolutely essential in certain cases of very specific centres to comply with the parameters of the Sectoral Conference of 27 August. These new measures were known by the centres in sufficient time, and were first communicated to their representatives at the School Council on 9 September, also on 11 September at the Autonomous Board of Senior Executives, and, of course, to the heads of inspection of the four provinces. In addition, as I have said, these measures were endorsed by the Clinical Committee on 16 September; and the following day, 17th, they were published in the DOG to provide legal security. Of course, the main issues raised in the Protocol are covered at this time, I think they are known to all of you. For example, in primary, the bubble groups, the mandatory use of masks for students over six years of age, or others that I think are already well known and that I won't stop exposing myself. It is also true that the General Protocol sets out a common framework for measures at each centre; it sets out that each centre, depending on its characteristics and needs, develops both in the purely organisational sphere, through adaptation plans, as well as in the field of semi-presenceal education, or the distance — in the hypothetical case of need — through contingency plans. In addition, this document is being complemented by more specific protocols that develop specific aspects within the educational field; for example, the already mentioned school eaters. We have designed and approved a specific document for school lunchers, in which we count on the arrivals of the groups that provide this service. And we want to do this first, to strengthen health security, and second, to provide legal security to the entities that manage this service in a complementary way. We have also approved a protocol for students with special educational needs, to articulate the most appropriate, concrete and necessary response for students who need attention to diversity and who have more complex organizational behaviour. We listen to the different groups of attention to diversity and follow the recommendations and health guidelines to create and adopt a document that helps, in this case, to strengthen security in classrooms for this type of student. The Council will, of course, continue to adjust and complement the General Protocol with those other specific documents that the educational community needs. We count on the collaboration of the Educational Committee, and we are already working in this field on specific protocols for adaptation to the covid-19 with very significant issues in the educational field, such as the management of recreations in some specific centres where there are objective limitations of physical space, architectural space, such as extra-school activities, such as centres that teach special regime or students in FP practices. At this point, I would also like to refer to another important moment, already mentioned, as was the decision to postpone a week's course — in secondary school, I mean — and start 23, 24 and 25 on a step-by-step basis. Why did you make this decision? The answer is: to give the secondary schools time to adapt to the new parameters agreed at the Sectoral Conference on 27 August, i.e. to the obligation of the interpersonal distance of 1.5 meters. This distance drew the pre-existing plans and led to the fact that a specific number — not very significant, but very concrete — of institutes, fundamentally urban, had a great difficulty — a huge difficulty! — absolutely objective, of being able to comply with this measure which was introduced, as I say, on 27 August. If we think of institutes that are in consolidated urban spaces, in historical institutes, in institutes that have a functional offer and a tremendously important educational offer, with ESO, with cycles of FP, with baccalaureate and even at night, we see that in those institutes it was impossible, objectively, to comply with these measures. So we're looking at a number of alternative solutions, and that's why we're delaying the course this week. At the same time as we made these decisions, we started working in parallel to the main measure proposed by the Union. As was previously done in children and primary schools, in the past few days, the recruitment of higher teachers was carried out to meet the needs of secondary schools, undergraduate schools and FP. We launched, in the Galician set, 847 developments only for ESO, Bachelor's degree and FP. In the face of the objective difficulties of a physical, architectural and urban nature, and in the presence of the powerful and dense functional offer of many educational centres, we have proposed other measures that you already know: the option of semi-presentiality in baccalaureate and FP — of course, in line with the vast majority of autonomous communities in Spain, almost half, where the possibility of semi-prescientity is extended from the second time of the ESO; while in Galicia it is only considered in non-compulsory teaching, in baccalaureate and in FP — and the installation of mampara in those spaces, mainly in specific classes — we think in computer classes or in FP workshops, where physical separation is between 1 metre and 1.5, so security measures are reinforced: distance of 1.5, mask and mammpara. And, of course, we use this time to increase the training actions directed at the teacher to adapt the way we work to the new situation. At this point of intervention, I want to focus on a matter of particular importance in this school course, which is the provision of resources, both material and human. So I want to implement the equipment provided for the implementation of the Continence Plan for Non-Presential or Semi-Presential Education. As you know, we count for this course with a contingency plan that will provide educational agents with the technology tools and training resources needed to activate distance learning if necessary. We make it available to the student in this new course, about 55,000 new devices, 34,000 of them through the E-Dixgal program and about 20,000 to offer new computers to the most vulnerable students. We already have 1,000 in stock, with their relevant connections to wifi; we are in the recruitment process of 2,000 more; we also have 600 computers available to the educational community at CFR, at the teacher's training and resources centres, and we have just signed an agreement with Red.es, whereby 17,000 new computers will be supplied, we calculate that about the end of this year or the beginning of what's coming. The objective of this plan, on the one hand, is to maintain the quality of education on hypothetical and possible scenarios that there is no face-to-face teaching; for example, in the case of classes that are affected by groes, or also to facilitate the option of semi-presence, both in Bachelorate and FP. In short, what we want is to anticipate and we want to be prepared to respond to an exceptional course, which we do not know how it will evolve. No one knows, but we want to be prepared, we want to anticipate ourselves, and we want, on the one hand, to have electronic equipment and devices oriented to the most vulnerable families and those who need it, and on the other, to achieve, in purely organizational and academic matters, if necessary, that the education system feels as much as possible because of that situation. This plan, which was raised to the Board of Trustees just a few days ago, has measures directed at students, teachers, centres and families. On the other hand, the main measure, the main and most important measure of the Galician board for the development of the current course, and so that it can be developed with the maximum guarantees of security, quality and equity, is the reinforcement of the teaching staff. The priority of the Galician board is to bet on face-to-face teaching at all educational stages; therefore, the main measure of this course was and is the reinforcement of the teacher. We're talking about a recruitment of around 2,300 new teachers, a little over 1,300 to meet the breakdowns and the increase in supply, and also about 1,000 to strengthen, in a specific and exclusive way, the care of the most vulnerable students. The general data we have are as follows: we talk about around 1,100 teachers for the stages of ESO, Bachelor's degree and vocational training. Of these 1,100, 847 are to provide coverage for deployments, to provide security in classrooms, and 260 to meet the increase in supply. We also speak of 240 new teachers of children and primary schools and some 1,000 - 990 - support teachers, who are distributed to equal parts between primary and ESO and are being hired through the ARCO Programme, of educational reinforcement, oriented, fundamentally, to strengthen the situations linked to the dynamics of the pandemic. With this reinforcement of teaching teams, first, one responds to the main demand of the educational community, and, second, the needs of the professor exposed by the centres and agreed with Inspection for this course in the face of the new situation. In addition, the continuing training of teachers has also been strengthened; we have provided specific training for the covid teams — 1,500 in all of Galicia, approximately 4,300 teachers —. And I would like, in this training process, to thank the teams for their loyal and very important participation in this case of the Health Council. In addition, all the teachers in Galicia will be able to access an updating course of teaching tools for teachers so that we can have a management of institutional tools for mixed education. All of this has budget support. It has been developed, and is being developed, a very powerful investment that is directly linked to the hidden effect throughout the current year, throughout the current exercise. We can say that the investment in the current exercise linked to the cowardly effect lies, both in non-university education and in SUG, around 162 million euros. In these 162 million euros we have introduced funds from the State through the Cover Fund — although I do save here, we draw from the 93 million, about 12 million euros that will be managed by Social Policy, because it covers teaching from 0 to 3 years; that is, we are talking about 93 minus 12, we are still needing this data — and also, from direct management funds from the Board, the rest, about 81 or 82 million euros. I believe that these are significant data, data that highlight the enormous investor effort that involves the increase in teacher education, without a doubt, the most significant match, both in children and in primary education, as well as in the ESO, bachelor's degree and vocational training; overcome, as I say, essentially, to the unfoldings. These are developments; we are talking about EUR 58 million that are devoted to the payment of the required teachers. Of course, in this amount of 162 million, there are other very significant games, for example, there are more than 9.4 million for computer equipment, both for E-Dixgal and for those oriented to reduce the digital divide; there were also works on very important infrastructure and equipment, we are talking about almost 24 million euros, where we have a very significant share within the Economic Reactivation Plan that has been pushed at its moment by the Galician Board to deal with the coward-19. Other items can be the educational guarantee reserve, 7 million, absolutely new, reaching educational centres, or the funds transferred to the university. We already have 3 million on the table, and we are currently in negotiations with the rhetorical teams to transfer the share of the covered fund. If we group these amounts, we can say that Galicia allocates 93.9 million to human resources: teachers, specific scholarships, staff reinforcement of dining rooms, staff reinforcement of cleaning personnel -- a very significant amount, almost 94 million euros, 93.9 -- For works and equipment we are talking about EUR 43.5 million. I have already talked about the large amount of work, for example, linked to the Covid-19 Restructuring and Reactivation Plan, and for services, EUR 25 million. I mean, it's data that talks about the significant effort we're making as a society to support and to enable the education course to develop with maximum security guarantees. We want, of course, to thank the transfer we received from the State, which all the autonomous communities received. However, just as we clearly say that we thank him, we also clearly say that he is discriminatory and unfair to Galicia. It has already been publicly said that it does not meet and does not consider the actual cost of providing the education service in Galicia. It was made with a simple rule of three, an unfair system that belonged to Galicia about 36.3 million euros; it was impossible for this fund to reach Galicia with 36.3 million euros. This was communicated by the president himself at the recent Conference of Presidents that took place - I believe - in Rioxa. In addition, this fund is planned to run in 2020, only in 2020. We continue to demand and demand a proportional effort by the state to be able to cope with the economic overcosts of the pandemic, and we estimate that these amounts cannot be less than EUR 30 million by the year 2021. It's a great effort, we know it; it's a great effort, we assume it; and it's a great effort, we run it, but we need administrations -- all administrations -- to meet their responsibilities. If we move on to the university system, I'd like to say that in this area, on the one hand, we've always set off on university autonomy, but on the other, on the other hand, on a very loyal collaboration and cooperation between the three universities and, in this case, the Council of Galicia. As in the previous case, the course is being developed in the three universities with no significant incidences, or with nothing going on in other universities in Spain or in the world. This shows that planning work and loyal collaboration between universities and Union is working. In Galicia, the activities for the development of the university course were planned and communicated to the students of the Greek universities. The universities approved and published their contingency plans, with different scenarios, depending on the health situation. Prevention plans were also made for each university center, the adaptation plans that were made in non-university centers. There was a shared work, instructions were agreed to unify the academic performance, both to close the past course, with standards and minimum quality requirements and linked to non-presental teaching, through what have been called "teaching guides", as well as to the opening of the current course, as I said, with the design of a series of scenarios. All of this was done on the basis of instructions agreed and negotiated between the General Secretariat of Universities and, in this case, the rhetorical teams. The 30th of July instruction establishes the minimum requirements to ensure the quality of teaching in this academic year. In addition, each university has developed a comprehensive prevention plan and a health control plan for each of its institutions, with measures adapted to each of its centres, which are obviously very different depending on the constructive typologies of the centers and according to the educational needs of the different areas of knowledge. Obviously, they have to be different situations. I mean, it was a great job, which made it possible in Galicia to make a statement -- in this case of the Minister of Universities -- very unfortunate it didn't cause a disappointment in the educational community. We all remember that statement where the university community was told that there was no plan B. Fortunately, these words in Galicia took the wind with no greater importance because the work had been done and had worked with great caution and with a very important collaboration. And we're still doing it. On September 17, I held a meeting with the three Rectors in which we analyzed the imminent start of the course, which took place a week later, in this case on 25. At that meeting we immediately set out the adoption of an agreement for EUR 3 million which is aimed at covering extraordinary costs of universities in different fields: health control measures, digitisation issues, minor infrastructures... and we must also say that right now we are in full negotiation with these institutions to transfer the percentage of funds committed - in this case, by the central government - to students in the field of higher education. After this exhibition, this exhibition of the work done to start an absolutely atypical school and university course, I also want, from this parliamentary headquarters, to appeal to prudence, responsibility and "sentidy". It's true that we've done a lot, the educational community has done a lot, but it's also true that much remains to be done and that we can't lower the guard at any time. We must be aware that throughout the course we will have many continuances - we have them - that we will have problems and that we will have unintended circumstances, because I say nothing new, ladies and gentlemen: the zero risk does not exist either in the school environment or in the society as a whole. The protocols that have been established by the health authorities are detecting these positive cases of cover-19 in people linked to educational institutions and, of course, also to children's schools, even though they are managed from the social policy field. I want to give the current data, today, linked to the health situation in the educational centres. Today we have 427 cases. If we compare to Saturday, we have 52 more cases. If we talk about health areas, we see that the worst area and the most positive area is Ourense, with 143 followed by the Coruña, with 93, of Pontevedra, with 54, of Santiago, with 46, of Lugo, with 45, of Vigo, with 37 cases and of Ferrol, which is the health area that presents better data, only 9 positive cases. We have 23 closed classes, five less than Saturday, and we don't have any closed centers. Why am I talking about Saturday? Because the Galician Board of Education, in this case, provides daily data from Tuesday to Saturday; that is, today's data tells us about Monday's and weekend's data and Saturday's data talk about Friday's. That is, it is a virtually unprecedented exercise of transparency in Spain, and by the way, the Ministry of Health does not provide comparative data to date. If it started now, as I'll explain later, but it doesn't bring data in this direction. This data leads us to say that educational centres - we can say with caution, with caution and with respect - are safe spaces and that health protocols are being scrupulously enforced. Of course, behind this statement, there is an enormous effort, an enormous work, mainly from the teaching teams, from the management teams, also from the non-teaching staff living in the centres themselves, from the families and children and children, who adapt themselves — no other — to the hygienic-sanitary requirements set out and, of course, to the Greek health system. And I also want to call upon responsibility, the responsibility of the entire educational community, teachers, non-teachers, students and families. It is essential to maintain security in the educational centres of Galicia. I would also like to present and share with you, ladies and gentlemen, the accumulated data of the last seven days, of the last week. This data tells us that in teaching centers the situation is better, fortunately, than in society as a whole. In the accumulated data of the last seven days we can say that the ratio for every 100,000 inhabitants in educational centres is 44 cases per 100,000 inhabitants. Galicia's general data is in 52 cases per 100,000 inhabitants. Obviously, I insist, caution, caution and effort. We're seeing that the effort is paying off, that educational centers are safe spaces. Another fact I want to put on the table: we're all aware that educational centers are open spaces; every day they come in and out, outside university school, about 450,000 people: students, students, service staff, teachers... around 450,000 people. If we compare cases with the number of people interacting with educational institutions, we see that the number of active cases is less than 0.1% in Galicia, in particular is 0.09%. I believe that this data is evidence of effort and is an acknowledgement of the great work being done in educational communities to preserve health security. I also want to say that in the vast majority of active cases, except for some very exceptional case, within the 1,300 educational centers, we identify one or two cases per class, and on many occasions those two are brothers. We're talking about more than 80% of the cases detected have one or two cases per class. That believes that there is a very limited community transmission in the educational context and believes that there is a correct application of health protocols. And I also want to make and share with you, Your Honor, comparative data at the state level, which I think is a good place for the education communities in Greece. As I said, in Galicia we give daily data, with the weekend paron. I have to say that it is complex, very complex, to make global comparisons with other autonomous communities, because until now the Ministry has not published any statistics that may have standardized and that it is possible to see and compare us, because it is possible that some autonomous communities are developing their work very well, and perhaps we can look at them to learn, but there is no such data; in fact, at the last Sector Conference I myself proposed - in this case to the minister of education - the need to have a comparative information system among the different autonomous communities. It is true that after this sectoral conference, we were sent with an Excel tab so that we could send data and that the Ministry, the Government of Spain, could provide comparative data one day a week on Wednesday. Well, it's hard, as I say, to make comparisons, but we have two data, one provided by the minister himself at the Sectorial Conference on September 24, and one this weekend of a media medium, that we will take it with the necessary precautions for being a media medium, but that also gives us some comparative light in this area. If we heed the data provided at the Sector Conference, in this case by the Ministry of Education, we see that in Galicia that day we had 27 closed classes; on September 24 we had 27 closed classes in Galicia. In Spain there were 2,852. I mean, Galicia had 0.9% of the closed classes in the total of Spain that day, when our school population is 5%, so we can see the good work that is being done in the centers. If we take the information this weekend from a media medium - the necessary safeguards, but as the Ministry does not give data, we take this data as reference - we see that Spain has 4,759 closed classes - with caution, which is the data we have -; Galicia, 28; that is, we have 0.5% of the total closed classes. In autonomous communities: Andalusia, 530; Aragon, 270; Castile and León, 142; Extremadura, 84. And I'm talking about communities from all political parties so they don't think we're using interested data. Finally, the average of Spain is 1.6 closed classes; the average of Galicia is 0.18; 1.6 compared to 0.18. Of course, these data speak well of the measures implemented, they speak well of the protocols, they speak well of the families, they speak well of the teachers, they speak well of the whole educational community, and they allow us a certain margin of prudence, but they also allow us to be proud of the good work that we are all doing in Galicia to maintain something fundamental at the moment, such as security. [[Applause]] Of course, many voices from health scientific communities, prestigious pediatricians or the Minister of Health themselves say - they are communicating - that educational centers and classes are not broadcast places, but, on the contrary, they function as cutters within the virus expansion chain. It's normal -- it's going to be in Galicia, Spain and Europe -- that there are affected cases linked to educational institutions: teachers, students, service staff, etc. What you have to do is that the center is not a transmission vehicle. In Galicia we have no closed center; we have had one at the beginning of the course, but at this moment we have none. We don't know what's in Spain, but on September 24th, the minister told us a good number of them. And we have to say that we need to recognize the effort and we need to launch a message of tranquility. We're aware that we've been just under a month in primary school and in childhood and just over two weeks in secondary school, ESO and BAC, but for now, as I've said, in the vast majority of cases, we're talking about 1 or 2 per class, because the transmission chain is cut off. Were there any cases? No doubt. The most important thing is to act with utmost diligence when a case arises, cut it off, inform families and comply with health protocols. They're going to come up, but you have to have a quick reaction and cut the transmission chain, and do it with total information transparency out and into the educational communities. We have launched two initiatives - I think very important - to achieve what we are saying about information management. On the one hand, the Edudovid platform, which is a platform designed by Health, Education and Amtega and which is a channel of comination between the health world and the educational world; it is ultimately an application of alarms so that, when a case is detected in the health system, the educational system transfers information to the health system, the educational system transfers information to the health system and the health care community can decide which measures to take in each case on the basis of information that exists in the centres; and it is transferred to health services through Edudovid. And one measure that I think is very important to reduce family stress, to reduce response time and suspicion time in diagnoses, also to reduce pressure on primary care and pediatricians is the creation of the autocavid school; that is, in the areas covered by auto there is a specific line oriented to educational staff: students, teachers, service staff... and in the hypothetical case that it is decided that it is necessary to make a PCR, if you can do it immediately, as I say, reducing stress in families and facilitating a quick, blunt and axile response, which allows you to reduce the moment of suspicion and the moment of diagnosis. I also want to say that the universities themselves transfer us that the incidence of the pandemic is minimal at the moment -- I insist, with the necessary caution and caution -- and it's a minimal incidence between the student, between the teacher and the PAS at the moment. In this case, the university authorities also coincide with the true perception and diagnosis that we have, and that the contagions come from outside the university, just as they come from outside the educational field. I'm done. In this exhibition it became apparent that both the British and the German Government put everything we've been and it's in our hand to face in the best way possible the start of an absolutely atypical course, absolutely complex, in an absolutely exceptional setting. I mean, the start of this course is an achievement, but not an achievement of the Autonomic Administration exclusively, not least, it is a collective achievement, which is based on and based on the constant effort of management teams, teachers, students and families, who are setting an example and proving that we are a mature society and that we are a responsible society. In this context, I appeal - as I have done in all the contacts I have had and will continue to have with the different members of the educational community - that we continue to work together - within the discrepancy, but working together - for a common objective, which is to guarantee maximum health security, which is to ensure the right to education, for quality and for equity, which is to ensure the right to education and for maximum health guarantees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u41	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Round of parliamentary groups. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr Álvarez Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say that my first words are not addressed to the Counsellor, but to the family, to the parents of this recently deceased minor -- deceased is an euphemism, because, in fact, it seems to have been a suicide -- a minor victim of a alleged case of school harassment related to their sexual identity. Frankly, it makes it impossible for me to think of a pain greater than in some parents who lose a child in such tragic circumstances as this and, of course, that pain I think we all share as a society. [[Applause]] Counsellor, it is a pity this audience had not taken place in the first plenary session of this XI legislation, because, at least, you might have asked for your presence on the 22nd. Of course, at that moment the appearance was not prudent, since it was not known how the course would start. And, as you can see, I don't make the slightest assessment of the postponement of appeals, since the right decision has been adopted — or you have made the right decision — with regard to your assistance to this plenary. But I repeat, I believe that within this House and public opinion three appearances were expected in the first plenary session of this legislation, theirs, that of the Social Policy Adviser and that of the Health Adviser, and all that, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen, for obvious reasons related to the utmost concerns of citizenship, but none of them happened. We don't even start, because two of these three shows are still missing in this plenary. On a previous basis, let me tell you that with regard to your extensive appearance, I draw attention to two details that are not minor. The first is that you said that the Government of Spain "sit" literally - to the Autonomous Community of Galicia 36.3 million euros in a distribution made by rule of three. Well, at least three simple rule, no, since you know it was a weighted system, considering 80% of the population between 0 and 17 years and 20% of the population between 17 and 24, that would be, let's say, the corresponding to higher education. In any case, I repeat that I think that "sise" is out of place, because it looks like a lot to "Spain in the robin." And secondly -- I think you'll particularly appreciate this happy coincidence -- we have for the first time, or for one of the first times in history, a fascinating fact of when the hecatonbe began and who started it, and that's what I think for a historian like you is very relevant. It all started on August 28, 2020, the origin of the highest crisis in the Council and the origin of all the problems that this course started. Because today it's necessary more than ever to recognize the professionalism of both teachers and management teams, for, despite their improvisation, their indefinition and their indolence, they were able to start with the start of the course; that's yes, primary in date and secondary with a week's delay. Because, of course, the course may be working at this moment with some normality, but of course, it was not thanks to its forecast and anticipation. [[Applause]] Look, you published an initial calendar on July 9. On September 1st they issued a resolution for the gradual incorporation of the student, because, of course, he had to do it in a guided manner, which could not be expected in any way. On September 17 they publish a new amendment to the school calendar, and until July 30 it turns out that you have not published any instructions, which could have been published before; instructions that nothing or little have to do with the Protocol you have referred to for a long time of your intervention, because these instructions include determinations as relevant to educational institutions as the preparation of the Continence Plan for the suspension of the educational activity. We all knew that it was necessary to have it worked out. I think it would be a policy exercise by your board to publish those instructions in advance enough so that at least in the period of June and July, the teaching departments and the teachers of primary and childhood schools could draw up that contingency plan. On September 24th, you send an e-mail to all teachers of the Greek public system that contains a protocol of action to the context covered in non-university education centres for the course 2020-2021 — you are speaking, ladies and gentlemen, of September 24th — a protocol that is version 3.2, because the draft of the Protocol beta version or version 1 was presented in July - by the way, four days after the autonomous elections, and not before - and now we are, as you said and in that agreement, with a dynamic protocol that must be permanently adapted. It also contains a prevention protocol for the transmission of covid in the dining rooms of the centres -- because if you didn't know that the dining rooms were a place that should have a specific protocol -- it also contains an exact protocol for students with special educational needs -- and I say that it has 6 sheets, and if the beta version protocol was very good because it had almost 90 leaves, Feijóo said, then this must be very bad because it only has 6; let's go, it's a question of proportionality, there, yes, Mr. Counsellor, rule of three -- the last self-assessment survey for families, following the model approved by the Ministry of Health on 10 September; and so on. But I'm not going to talk about the Protocol because tomorrow we'll have time to talk about it, even though your intervention practically cleared us all the doubts. In the short time that I have left -- I wish I had the fourth part of what you have at your disposal, I don't say so because of your unlimited character, since, of course, you are part of the Government and you have to have time to explain yourself, but 10 minutes to each parliamentary group to talk about a matter as transcendent as the school course is more short-lived -- I mean they worry a lot about families and teachers. First of all, it is worrying about the technological situation of the student. Little did you say or practically none of that, except for that agreement of last week's Galician Board of Deputies where there was news that 20,000 new equipment was to be purchased for students. And, look, about 20,000 is some less, given his tendency to go up when it comes to kindness. And 34,000 existing in E-Dixgal are about 54,000 and not about 55,000, because 1,000 of the difference is very relevant, especially considering that their advisors made a fuss that they distributed 900 equipment between the students who needed it during the worst pandemic; that is, when ordinary school activity was suspended in March. It's 54,000. There's also something that's got me so much attention, because you're saying that in the E-Dixgal program there's going to be 200 classes and it's going to be 8,000 new teams for the student and 2,000 for the teacher. All, all, all are multiples of 10 and almost 1,000. But, look, if it's 200 classes, it's 8,000 students' teams; in a division I know there are 40 students per class, a ratio that I don't think corresponds to reality. Have you, Counsellor, analysed the needs -- or do you know -- of the student's attention in the digital field? What criteria would these teams share? Are they exclusively for the new E-Dixgal? Can you answer any of these questions? Counselor, help to distribute masks from the student. Within this reserve of educational guarantees that were provided with 7 million euros, it turns out that masks will be distributed to the student with the same criteria for the distribution of textbooks. And this gives me some doubt, at least, and it's not that it's particularly wise, but how are they going to share it with what criteria? Are you going to share with a student four and two like they do with the books? Can you guarantee that this distribution will be done on an equal footing in all centres? I mean, are you going to give them some instructions to the centers on how to proceed with that distribution or is it going to be: there you go this box, share it as you see? And I'm not even trying to make an easy joke, it's a very dramatic situation, and you voted against a BNG initiative in the previous plenary about the distribution of free masks. You caused a problem with the school transport of the bachelor's student because, of course, some centers — you referred to that — rightly decided to transfer the bachelor's lessons to the evening shift and therefore left the students without school transportation. We will have an opportunity to debate this matter. With regard to the professor, the dance of figures is already of anthology: first, in August, they were about 1,000, now they are about 2,300, yesterday they were about 2,000. Mr Counsellor, I think it must be a little more serious when it comes to transferring the figures on the professor hired in this autonomous community, because we know — because this was said at parliamentary headquarters to a question from this parliamentary group in the Commission 4th, Education and Culture — that, in fact, to address new needs arising from the measures to be taken in the centres to comply with that protocol and to ensure the appropriate health conditions are just over 1,100 teachers who are to be incorporated into the education system. I do not want to open any melons — and I will finish, Mr President — but it would not be too much for you to make some reference to the concerted centres because concerted centres, such as public-funded centres, require funding. And there's one thing that has powerfully caught my attention throughout this almost exhausting crisis -- and unfortunately, what we have left -- which is: how was there no problem with the concerted centres, with the distances, with the facilities, or with the professor? How did the Education Council at no time move to the public opinion that was being given attention to the thousands of students attending these schools? Can you give this House some information about this particular?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u43	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u44	It's over, Mr. President. Finally, Counselor, too many open questions, too many unanswered questions. Frankly, I would like to see that, since this meeting takes place on its own, also on the request, at least from this Member, you have some information on these matters that I have just asked you about. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u45	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u46	President, ladies and gentlemen. Counselor, allow me, first of all, to transfer our joy to you because, finally, today you may be here. We hope that the quarantine and the causes that caused it had a satisfactory result, as it seems. And, as it cannot be otherwise, we also believe that it is fair to reintroduce in our support and transfer all our strikes to the members of the educational community — as did the people who preceded me — that they are setting an example in coping with the cowardice and its consequences. You are an example and we need more than ever all of you. [[Applause]] Because if we have something clear, Mr Counsellor, it is that this educational community, that human group, is setting an example of dignity and it is to whom we owe above all; it must be the constant reference and to which we must have all our push to be cared for with guarantees, with seriousness and with levels of responsibility which, to our judgment, since the Council of Education, sadly, have not been shown at any time. That's why, Counselor, I, after listening to your intervention, the first thing I wanted to say to you is that it is amazing the level of self-comprehensibility and the level of disconnection that, in our trial, is showing with the reality of our education system. And we said this because his intervention was part of that original sin that you mentioned — which is at the heart of his argumental line — when he said that all the difficulties that arose in the education system arose on 31 August. But you're part of a premise that's not true, Counsellor; you know that on June 22 there were already some WHO indications where 1 meter between desks was established, and you changed that mechanism and set 1 meter between the axis of the chair. So when you guys did your protocol on July 22nd, they could have implemented a meter and a half away, which was what the health agencies said, and they didn't. You know why? Because he allowed them to save teachers. [[Applause]] And he also draws attention, Counselor, that you come here to say that, of course, those criteria of sharing the copper fund are unfair, and we share it absolutely. But, as we fully share it, we vote against the criteria for the allocation of funds, but you, gentlemen of the People's Party, voted in favour, and now you come here saying that, well, that sharing is unfair. [[Applause]] Look, what you can't do is defend the interests of this country in a semi-perceptive regime because it's clear that the educational community doesn't understand it. [[Applause]] And, of course, what we want to transfer to you is that there are two options here: on the one hand, there is the logic of the story and the logic of propaganda; on the other hand, the logic that we believe is the one that requires the educational community, which is the logic of the reality of the educational centers. So we're going to try to focus our intervention on all these demands — and contrast them with their intervention — that moves us to the educational community; realities, Mr. Counsellor, such as those affecting the teacher. We deny the greatest: a repeated lie a thousand times does not become true. You know perfectly well that, when you bring that data from the 543 teachers of the ARCO program, they're hired half a day. When you bring data from the 543 teachers of childhood education, you know that you are taught to meet the ratios of primary and childhood education that you would have to be hired, also in a context that is not the pandemic and that is therefore not compputable in these terms. And you know perfectly well that with the fund I cover you could have hired more than 2,300 teachers and hired less than half. Therefore, Counsellor, as we do believe that the educational community requires us to be able to meet the circumstances, in the face of propaganda, proposals. Proposal one, Counsellor: you hire teachers, you guarantee access to face-to-face education from now on in the Bachelor's degree and you end up with the shame that the 17 teaching centres are living in which they have Bachelor's degree and are not on equal terms. [[Applause]] Proposal two, Counsellor: they manage the spaces to allow this present education to be effective. Proposal three, Counsellor: stop discriminating the pupils of childhood and primary education and implement measures so that we do not have to see the shame that we have suffered, for example, at CEIP Barcelos in Pontevedra, and at so many other centres in the country, which in full pandemic doubles the ratios of child education. Proposal four, Counsellor: tell us what percentage of the cover game that has been executed, how many teachers are hired under this heading and what is the current credit provision we have to implement measures in defence of public education. Counselor, there's one more thing that happens to the teacher's recruitment. We can say about the safety distances. What happened to the ratios and protocols, I think it's a bunch of bandages and improvisations that don't deserve to be reincarnated. But what is obvious -- that's how we moved it before -- is that you've had it since June 22 to make that decision and you haven't made it. WHO made it clear; it was the interesting interpretation that you did what appeared in WHO recommendations that caused chaos of course principle. I believe that this is something that everyone has perceived in the educational community, Counsellor, and just what I'm trying to move you is that if you don't believe what this deputy tells you, go to the clauses, that they will perfectly explain to you what was the situation they suffered. So I think there's a treasure in the educational community. There are clauses that are tired of delegating to those responsibilities that do not correspond to them. And that's why I think it's also fair to transfer in this cloister all our solidarity with the leadership of CEIP Luís Seoane, from Oleiros, to those you intend to incorporate responsibilities that do not correspond to them, in an absolutely unconquerable attitude. [[Applause]] Go ahead, we want to move all our solidarity with the director and his educational community. As we will also be harmed, counsellor, if we are unable to articulate immediate solutions to what is happening with distance teaching. It's just that you -- if you've misunderstood, correct me -- says these averages are going to be implemented in December-January, but it's just that the needs are already on the table, Counsellor; we're already having those needs on the table, and you know that they've also had, since March 12, to plan a situation that I think wasn't so hard to predict. Proposal, Counsellor: It is a commitment here to solve the problems that will arise with distance teaching, which will happen, as you yourself have just pointed out, and to indicate to us whether there is a clear protocol to ensure the educational project and equity in teaching distance from the centres. Counsellor, these are problems that are also reproduced with the cleaning and disinfection of the centers. What we're moving to in many educational centers is that they're having very serious staff problems and that this really motivates even resignations from management teams, as I understand you know. So this precaution in staff and this leave of office, in our judgment, is causing problems that affect the health and the right to education of our daughters and children. Proposal, Counsellor: undertakes to provide sufficient staff centres, staff who demand cleaning and disinfection of centres, and also undertakes to comply with the requirements set out in the report by the Fegamp and the Deputy of the Crown to assume the powers of the Council of Galicia and to stop disbursing its responsibility in other administrations. And I shall finish, Counsellor, by referring to two questions: the first, the Protocol on Special Educational Needs, and the second, on conciliation. He has approached the committee and will also address this plenary session, but of course we believe that it is absolutely inappropriate for a serious government to appear in such a protocol as a point that will be extreme the precautionary measures and that the mamparas will be a mechanism to attend to these students, when the experts are pointing out that this is not the recommended one. And the same is true, Counselor, with conciliation measures. You were talking about the relationship you had with the ANPAs, and I kept reminding myself of Mr. Pérez Ares' statements when he was meeting with the ANPAs of Vigo, to whom he told them, for demanding security in school dining rooms, who were politicizing his performance. This tells people who have been volunteering for years and who are indispensable for the survival of our education system. It's an infamy, Counselor, and you should apologize for these statements. [[Applause]] And I end up again holding my hand to provide as much as possible, but demanding that this council be able to meet the circumstances and assume its competences. I was reminded in these days of what the sadly deceased Quino said in one of his comics in which Felipe told Mafalda: Don't leave what you can pack for another tomorrow today. Unfortunately, few more reliable portraits of what has been lived in these months by the Education Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u47	Thank you, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Roder Tato.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, just as the counselor did and also made the voices of the BNG and the voices of the PSdEG, I also want to have a few words in this speech of spirit and gratitude to the entire educational community, which has given outstanding evidence of their commitment and responsibility to our public education. Thank you also to mothers and parents, students and non-teachers for their unanimous practice of cooperation. But I would also like to highlight the great involvement of the management and teacher teams, who are working hard to organize in each of the centers the start of the school course in a situation, as we have heard here, exceptional as we are living in. To all these magnificent professionals who have public education in Galicia I would like to thank, on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, for their enormous ability to adapt to this new situation, and I would also like to point out that by the exemplaryness of their work, the Greek teachers are giving their first major lesson in the school course to their students. Every member of the educational community, thank you, because we are faced with a challenge as we have never experienced and the work of all is needed to maintain the pillars of our educational system, one of the most equitable and inclusive of the state. Counsellor, I would like to thank you for your presence at your own request to address the start of this school course; a course that, as we all know, is part of an exceptional situation; it is the greatest challenge facing the Education Administration in all communities. So the importance that the three groups that we make up this House of Representation of the Galician Citizenship can count on the information that has been transferred to us and that lets us know the road map that is going to follow your department. The first thing I would like to highlight and value your intervention is the tendency of the Government of Greece to listen to the proposals for improvement for our education system and also to ask for the cooperation of members of this House. In this way, through the debate, we can provide new ideas and measures that enrich the administration's own action. In the same way, I would also like to congratulate the exquisite institutional loyalty he has had and is having the Greek Government with the various ministries of the central government, which should also be leading this crisis; a loyalty that has not always been matched. You, Counsellor, have set out here a number of measures which the Galician Council has taken to implement this school course with the highest standard that allows us to have this health crisis. In his speech we can check the intense work of drafting protocols back to school, protocols that are being updated always following the criteria of the Galician Joint Clinical Committee; a clinical committee with experts who have curricula and names and surnames. And all this work that the Galician Union has done has made it difficult to cooperate loyally with the Ministry of Education, and the truth has to admit that there have been a few bandages. At the June Sectoral Conference, criteria were actually set; criteria were changed around the holidays on 27 August. And in addition, that meeting we considered, as was requested by other communities governed by other parties, which had to be held long before 27 August. So that, indeed, has caused a series of difficulties and a management that, at least we, will not applaud. Nor did the Government of the State applaud her, who also made firm criticisms of the minister's performance because she first said one thing, then said another and then said the opposite of the second to say the first, to end up saying that each autonomous community had done what it wanted. Of course, we think it's a lack of leadership across the state. The truth is -- to play a joke -- the minister does have a great commitment to the protocols I hide because it only does it wash his hands in the face of these coordination problems. So there's another fact that surprises us and comes to destroy the work of the education pact, which was created to study understanding formulas for a new educational law. They come to impose a sectarian and ideological criterion, as we just met at the Council of Ministers last week, through a decree that will translate into a worse and lower-quality education. So, I think ending the culture of effort and critical thinking is not the best way to act with our education but to promote the mediocrity of future generations of Spanish. Mr. Álvarez, indeed, is not everything done well and there are always many things to do and to improve, but we have not received anything from his party, who have spent some time encouraging also the municipalities where they govern to breach the cleaning powers using the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces in that sense. The cleaning skills of children's and primary education centers are very clear, as much as they want to use Fegamp to say otherwise or to make another propaganda. I therefore believe that all these efforts are necessary, but I would like to remind you, on the basis of the criteria for the distribution of those mentioned here in this plenary, which Mr Lambán, Socialist President of Aragon, said were unfair criteria for the distribution of the funds covered. He also said Mr. García Paje: "I don't think the change of criteria is fair, I can't share it." In fact, it's very simple, Mr. BNG's voicer, to say that you defend, but in the end, the result of your defense is always null. So I think there have been, indeed, many bandages that have come to hinder the start of the school course. Mr. Lourenzo, I want to remind you that you come here with a very lively intervention, but the truth is -- I was telling you the first day -- I'm already the second force of Galicia in this autonomous community. Therefore, you have more responsibility; responsibility that it would be good for you to apply it with that friend union that you have. In fact, all the proposals you brought here didn't do them on July 16 at the sectoral meeting where the protocol was presented, they didn't say anything because they got up from the table. And on the 17th at the sectoral table, presenting the risk prevention program, they also got off the table. They had a great opportunity to propose, too. And, man!, the first thing they do is propose to encourage a general strike. The truth is that with a government in functions we also find a great contribution, that you have not taken possession of the new Government and that you have already done a preventive strike, before, nothing more and nothing less, of knowing the protocols, before the 27th of August, sectoral conference, I believe that this believes a way of working and says that nothing has changed with regard to what they have been keeping throughout the last few years. [[Applause]] Therefore, Counselor, you had to organize a complicated, difficult, indeed most difficult start of all that had to be set in motion. What I want to transfer to you from our group is support to be able to implement all necessary measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u49	Thank you, Mr. Rodeiro Tato. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the reply, the Councillor for Culture, Education and University.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Álvarez, you ask me for an impossible one. I'm trying to get out of my ears saying that I didn't come to the first plenary to explain the start of the course, but it was literally impossible because in that first plenary, I hadn't started the course in high school, in bachelor's degree, in FP and at universities. If we have this House, let us see if we have this House, that in my responsibilities as education advisor always, all courses, we have come to explain the start of the course, which other governments close to you on occasion have not done. [[Applause]] You see, we're almost here at least a month from the start of primary and child training, just over two weeks, two weeks and a few days, in high school, LAC and FP, and 25 was the opening of the university course. You know that in the beginning of the course there are always processes of adjustments and some data that evolves, that changes, but we understand that this situation had to explain it, but we have to explain it when it is possible, not before because, if we didn't, we'd come absolutely with partial data and at that time you'd be recriing me that we're incapable of anything and that we're reporting on data that aren't constituted, because we didn't start in high school and we've already registered our own request to come to this House, for the most part that we have, explaining this course start, which, as I'm saying and as we all know, is the most complex of the last few years. You're talking about the distribution of government funds. Galicia lost, lost funds there, and other autonomous communities too, because a rule of three was made. We have not taken into account the actual cost of providing services, and there we are going to ask you to help us convince the Ministry of Education or anyone responsible to take into account the actual cost of the service. Because you know that Galicia, despite having only 5% of the student, has 20% of the school transport, is the autonomous community that has most school transport in Spain, along with the dining room, which we have more than 10% of Spain. I think that you have to have quantified it to make a fair distribution, otherwise it becomes unfair. It's not that we despise the 93 million, or much less, we don't despise them, but if we ask that there be a fair deal with Galicia. As far as you're concerned, trying to minimize the impact of the September 27 measure, I'm just telling you that I'm going to bring to this House a sentence that I think is very significant that I heard from a director of a large educational center, in this case of Ferrolterra. This director literally said, with a huge common sense and a great agility, "I never thought half a meter from that to so much." It was the key absolutely, the key to the organisational difficulties in secondary education, LAC and FP. Because if we compare it to primary, where 27 didn't change those criteria, we see that the course started normally. In FP, BAC and ESO too, but in primary and secondary with total tranquility and total normality. I think that was very important. And when it comes to improvisation, of course, if the Ministry, the Government of the State, changes the rules of play before the party starts, there will be some change. They didn't change in primary school, nothing happened, secondary school, yes. With which, there was no improvisation, there was the ability to adapt to a situation that caused a huge difficulty in structuring and organizing the spaces of the educational centres, and at most in some institutes where architectural typologies, physical space, urban reality and functional supply left no margin, without any margin of possibility of adapting in ten days, in just over ten days, the educational centers to this norm, which was known — I insist — on 27 August. Home!, Mr. Álvarez, we have spoken in this House on occasion and you know that I have a personal respect for you, but I believe that in this case the Socialist Party had to be a little more humble, tremendously humble, because trying to transfer wrong messages to society, absolutely unfair information, lies, I believe that at this particular moment it is an enormous irresponsibility. I'm going to give you an example, a document from the Socialist Party, is full of pearls, but I'm just going to put one to see the irresponsibility of a political formation that says - do what it says - "Galice should have hired 2,000 teachers instead of the 240 announced; i.e. she's hired 8.3 times less than expected." This is a document of the Socialist Party. Home!, if the Socialist Party says it's 240 teachers after the saying and the known, because really forgive me, but I believe that the credibility of this political formation remains very fair. Just like when you make a deal of proposals. This is the Socialist Party, the PSdEG, and they make 10 points. [[The Counsellor for Culture, Education and University shows a document.]] Well, we could agree. What's going on? That when we go to the autonomous communities where you rule, in some of them with an absolute majority, we see that what you say here is not done in their autonomous communities. I'm going to put two or three examples. For example, in Castile-A Mancha you announced that 3,000 teachers would be hired. Do you know how many they hired? Something over 700. In Aragon they hired approximately 400 teachers, 3%; Galicia over 6%. They talk about prevention measures, and, for example, the measure of testing teachers very few autonomous socialist communities have carried out. They're talking about cleaning expenses. Castela-La Mancha and Extremadura don't take the primary cleaning costs, and you here have made an absolute campaign to try not to fulfill your responsibility. They're talking about lines of conciliation. In Castela-La Mancha, Aragon and others do not appear. With which, it's very good to make a decalogue, but when a decalogue is made, they have to make sure that their autonomous communities comply with it, because, if not, they remain in a very pretty wish but in nothing else, and that discredits political formation in this case. You're talking about sharing masks. Do not have the slightest doubt that precise and clear instructions will be made for the centres to know what they have to do; and not only with the distribution of masks to the most economically vulnerable students, following the parameters of the book distribution system, but also with a contingency fund at the centres themselves, we will have emergency equipment at the centres themselves, for when necessary, and we will also have a supply of material, hydrogels, etc., necessary so that protocols can be made and implemented with full support from the Galician Board at the centres themselves, because educational centres are from the autonomous community, they are a further part of the Administration. The schools and their teachers aren't autonomous entities that walk around, no, no, they're part of the administration. You talk about teachers. Look, we at no time - nor today - we deny that there are two parts: a new part of teacher for deployments and new offer and a part for the ARCO teachers; but we don't deny it at any time, we say it. Yes, with the ARCO professors, we have made changes in the instructions to make a clearly oriented compliance to bring out the needs derived from the covid. I'm surprised -- I see it positive, it's a novelty -- that you're looking at the concerted centers here; it's a different argumental line from the one that's done in Madrid, where you know that the PSOE -- well, the Government in general -- in Madrid, the concerted centers don't want them at all. If you can -- you said a word to him -- bury, bury them, don't you? Perhaps it is not the right word, but all the rules that are laid down at the state level regarding the concertaries are attacking this modality of teaching, which, by the way, created it by a socialist government, which was Felipe González; it was at the time of Felipe González. But I think the messages that the Government of Spain is sending are that the concerteds are absolutely terrible - at least terrible - and they generate enormous concern. You can be sure, Mr. Álvarez, that we are working with the concerted centres to give them the same ideas or very similar to those of the public centers, because here we are not talking about a concerted centre that is supported by public funds or public centers that is also supported by public centers, here we are talking about children and children, students, and we have to be aware, in the field of our responsibility, that we have to give them similar treatment, and we are giving it to them. We are in full negotiation with this area to generate a package of actions geared towards which concerted centres also have the ability to adapt clearly to this situation. How come they're not paying attention? Sanitaryly absolutely, just like they were a public center, exactly the same, because here they matter kids, students, students and teachers. In fact, the only center that closed in Galicia as a center was a concerted center in Pontevedra, the first one, before the start of the course, for an outbreak that arose among the teachers prior to the start of the course itself; with which, there is identical attention. With regard to the speech of the spokesperson for the Galego Nationalist Block, I tell you that this is the first time I'm lucky to have a debate with you, I hope that we can continue to debate throughout this legislation. We have different models and I think it's good to know and say it, it's very good, because society is so, we're different. I'm just asking for caution in a series of aspects that I'm going to transfer to you. I think your argumental line is that everything you did was to save teachers. We just said that we hired almost 2,300 and we just said there's an investment of around 162 million euros. But, of course, you make a very simple rule: every hidden background, for teachers, and that's it, they stay so wide; they move it around and they stay so wide. Do you really think the adaptation of the education system to the current health situation is summed up only and exclusively in putting more teachers in the centers? If they think so, they're absolutely wrong, absolutely wrong! [[Applause]] I also tell you that you didn't hear me very much. I clearly said the amount of deployments, for example, in secondary school, I said exactly how much economic money the Fund has to spend on teachers, 56 million, and human resources, plus, because there are more resources for monitoring, more transport resources, more food resources, more school cleaning resources, etc. And, of course, you're telling me about 16 LAC centers that have semi-presence. The data is out of date, I understand that this is not your fault, because here's going to evolve data from day to day, but at this point we're talking practically of 8, even less than 8. This evolves day by day because inspection teams, together with the management teams, are constantly looking for solutions, which is not easy, because we can meet, on the one hand, the need for family reconciliation, we can encounter, on the other hand, the physical and architectural objective difficulties of many constructive spaces, and we can also meet the need to design, for example, a system that enables us to combine life in centres with life outside the classroom. In short, the data you are considering is much smaller. And I also want to tell you clearly here that you're making a line of attack on semi-presence. Galicia has only half-presence in non-compulsory education. Other autonomous communities ruled on the left have semi-presentiality from the 2nd ESO forward. Yes, and what? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's the philosophy of the Block, so what? All right! [[Applause]] Let's go on with "and what?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh I also said clearly, Mr. Spokesman, that out of the 93 million a part will manage social policy, from 0 to 3, because it's the one who manages residences. Of course, you almost propose here an amendment to the whole of the physical distances fixed and the hygienic-sanitary parameters fixed by the health authorities. You're brave, very brave, and also creative because you tell us that since March 12, we've had time to plan for the current course. All right, all right. March 12 was when the classes were closed. You'll understand that quantifying and accusing the Galician Unscheduled Board because on March 12th, we didn't start working on the current course planning is at least curious. And, of course, then, you, besides creative -- and I'm sorry that you use these adjectives, which I don't use politically -- you're also pessimistic because you're almost setting up a scenario in which educational centers are going to shut down, as in confinement. Know that's not in anybody's roadmap, the Ministry's or the board's or anyone's. Measures will have to be taken according to the need to adapt them, depending on the evolution of the pandemic, but we wait - let's hope, let's hope - that the situation will not reach that end. That's why I say it's a very pessimistic political approach. And I'm surprised you bring here one of the Socialist Party's strategies in recent weeks. It was the Socialist Party, standing on the one hand in the Fegamp - also in some Members and in some municipalities - who is saying that the objective increase that exists in the cleaning of primary education centres should not be paid by the municipalities. Well, I understand that this is a political strategy of the Socialist Party because they did it in a lot of places and they thought about it in a lot of places, but it's unwise. And it's indiscreet from the point of view of both the approach itself and the statement they make, showing up in legal reports. I have a legal report from the Judicial Council of the Council of Galicia - which I will make available to the President of the House - in which there is no doubt, but there is no doubt that the task of cleaning primary centers is the city halls. I understand that, perhaps, they prefer to add resources — cases — to other things or not to participate in a process and a collective challenge, but try to wash their hands, as it has been said here, and also to try with reports made by the deputies, governed by the Socialist Party, to get rid of their responsibility, I think it is not the best, that it is really the best to provide wisdom and, in that sense, to bring this protocol to the President. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u51	No, no, please! Wait a minute. Sorry, you know how the situation is, we can't just scream in the air, because this is how it is.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u52	Apart from that, the health spokesman...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u53	Sure, that's how it is. No, look out. Don't be a joke, don't be a joke. We're making every effort here to get this absolutely ventilated, because it's one of the most important matters, we can't start at... so I ask you for some restraint, too. We're in the situation. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, I don't provoke anyone, I'm just talking about a special situation that we're all living and I ask you to be careful, nothing more. Let's be sensible about this. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u54	You also, Mr Spokesman, speak of the Protocol we have approved, after consulting and working together with different groups, concerning students with special educational needs, and you question the use of mamparas. I ask him, do you know any special education centers? Have you ever been to some center? Have you ever entered a special education centre? Because if you tell me that, it really gives the feeling that you don't know much -- in addition to what you just said -- how it's a special education center and how attention needs are for students with special educational needs. In any case, you're done talking about the government's hand. I don't know how to take it, because it gives the feeling that there are two hands in the Block and, in this particular case, both hands of the Block have been seen. Because, on the one hand, they come here to tend their hand, which honour them, if they were sincere, but on the other hand, in the specific case of what we're talking about, you were, let's say, I'm not going to say the instigators, but yes the element that clearly supported a strike, from my perspective, absolutely irresponsible, because the first day of the start of a strike, when you didn't even know the development parameters of the same course, is really something that gives the feeling that there are two hands, right? [[Laughter]] The question is, what hand do we pay attention to the Nationalist Block?, what do you want to be sensible or what do you prefer to be in the barricades all the time? We don't know. I suppose during this session we'll see what your position is. But on that strike, fortunately, also in Galicia, it was shown that the educational community is extremely sensible, because in primary it had 12% support and in secondary it was 3%. I believe that there again the educational community has shown its wisdom, its responsibility and its desire to do things as they should, the need to do things right. Obviously, we also saw it at the sectoral bureau. When they started talking about the General Protocol, the unions left without even one explanation, and then they criticized it. It's easier to get out, criticize, than to get into the problem and help. I think in that sense these difficult and complex moments will teach us, they will teach the Galician society, those who are going out to criticize themselves, and those who are going to help themselves. I was also surprised — and I am finished — that there were zero criticisms on the part of the Nationalist Block of the Government of the State in this matter. They look like faithful members of the Socialist Government and the Government of Podemos in Madrid. Look, let's see how the things I think were even more critical of Mr. Álvarez. This is what the Vice-President of the Government has said about the Minister of Education in this case. Unheardless, absolutely unheard of! We have a position with respect to the central government of loyalty, of collaboration, but not to take us for fools. We are going to demand what we have to claim, what we have to do and what we have to do in different areas. We are going to call for important measures to be put in place at the moment, as a comparative data system, and for a regulatory flexibility, but that regulatory flexibility does not mean what the Ministry is proposing, a sort of: well, we are going to run without any problems, regardless of the subjects. No, that doesn't seem right to us, and we ask for coordination. For what? To avoid waste of resources. Why? Because if we have to give a solution to a problem, give it to us, call ourselves the autonomic advisors, we agree on a solution, but let's not let the 17 autonomic governments agree or make their own decisions that are common to all. That's what I mean by avoiding waste of resources and effort. And there was an absolute "washing hands" in this case by the Ministry. Finally, I make a call and make a call, ladies and gentlemen, to see the positive of the Greek educational system, which is not solely the responsibility of the German Government or the councillor or the board of directors, is a collective merit of the educational community. They see, before, the comparative data with Spain, the comparative sanitary situation and those affected by Galicia comparing them with Spain. Everywhere we are said to start the course normally within the exceptionality, but Galicia's comparative data are tremendously better than the average of Spain, no doubt. And see also what has always characterized our education system, which is quality and that is equity, and the results are above the table. I ask them -- and I am done with all the work done by the educational community -- I also ask them for caution, a lot of caution, and I also ask them for a lot of responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u55	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Special round of clarifications. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u56	Thank you again, Mr. President. Mr. Wheel, Counsellor, do we encourage the Town Councils to violate their cleaning obligations? Mr. Rodeiro, you have been mayor and you, as mayor, know that the municipalities are obliged to allocate a considerable amount of additional funds not provided for the tasks they have to carry out as a result of complying with the Protocol; necessary protocol and necessary cleaning, of course, of course yes. And no one is questioning whether the city council's competence is to clean up child and primary education centres, so far we're here! But, of course, you will agree with me, even if it is in your part as mayor, that when a local administration is imposed an additional obligation it is fair that it is financed in a coordinated manner and corresponding to that new obligation that it is imposed on you, because if not, we would already be getting into the always dubious scope of the inappropriate powers of the local administration. [[Applause]] I think asking for fair funding isn't the same -- even though you're trying to see it -- that call for insubmission. Mr Counsellor, you made a first intervention, in this audience, descriptive, a second, offensive part, in the sense - I understand it well - to attack, not to offend, and the third part says that it will be hand-in-hand; the classic introduction to the political outcome in this Parliament by the People's Party. How could it be impossible to appear if you had registered an appearance, like the rest of the government members, to talk about the general lines of action? He might have appeared, of course; of course, the course was not begun, but of course, the slightest political prudence advised not to appear at that plenary session on January 22. And the truth is -- no matter how much I know this won't be of any use to you, because you're going to follow the mackerel that they're missing thirty million euros -- is that the funds I cover -- and you know it perfectly -- are meant to reinforce the measures needed for the student. And don't mix here the argument that despite having 5% of the student we have 25% of the school transportation, or is it going to have to take students several days to school and several times on the same day? Let me get the transport to talk about the lack of funds is an absolutely false argument, and the worst thing is that you know and try to confuse public opinion with that kind of statement. [[Applause]] What lies have I transferred to my intervention? I lied to him. I asked him questions. I asked him questions, some of which he objected intensely, and the others answered absolutely nothing. I am very glad that within his reading condition are the documents that edit the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party; indeed, the brain, but I could also say -- because he brought it to this chamber "caramba!" -- that the document is from August 21st, when you only said that they were going to hire 240 masters. Nothing else, and therefore it was the data that was available. [[Applause]] Be consistent in your intervention. Because, in addition, other autonomous communities already knew how many additional teachers would hire. Other autonomous communities knew how much high school teachers were going to have in high school as of September, other autonomous communities already had a protocol that included different scenarios of presence, semi-presentiality or distance teaching, other protocols already had the interpersonal metro and half distance between students, and I know and know the phrase that "metro and half is a lot" —it depends that, we're also leaving it in which meter and half to take a distance between students severely disrupt the school organization, because up there we have arrived—but, I insist, other autonomous communities already had it and you know perfectly that other autonomous communities already had that protocol. With regard to the concerted centres, the only response that gave me was an attack on the Socialist Party's supposed position on the concert regime. Look, Counselor, I know the general rule of concert is a socialist government. Obviously, we had to respond to a need that the country had. That doesn't mean we're demonizing the concerted centers. I asked him if there was any additional measure taken with this kind of center, because I told him that I was very attracted to the attention that within all the controversy there was throughout all these weeks in none of them appeared the concerted centers. And what about the concerted and un concerted private centres that are subject to the same hygienic-sanitary measures as the Education Council? It's just that no one questioned that. What I wonder about is how they're dealing with these survival needs, which have them just like the other centers, and their answer on October 6 is that they're negotiating a package of measures, when in early childhood and primary education they've been a month of class and when in secondary education they've been weeks and half-weeks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u57	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u58	Now I'm done, Mr President, and I thank you for your flexibility with this humble deputy. In any case, Counsellor, say what you want, but don't ask us, at least the Socialist Party, and I don't think we have the greatest respect for the educational community either, because, don't confuse it, it's not the same thing to question the political leadership of the Galician Administration that we're questioning how our centers work. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u59	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, the interventions we have seen bring to this Parliament give you exactly what has happened to them all this time with the educational community, which they simply don't listen to. You come here, you use the famous strategy of the straw man, to put into our mouth questions that at no time we point out, and -- I have to tell you -- that's all you have to say -- is the weakness of this government to have to implement performances that we've never said to justify defeat in its performance. But let's go to the concrete, Counsellor, is it true or isn't it true that June 22th to WHO stated that it was necessary in teaching within a meter between desks? Is it true or not true? Is it true or is it not true that you've implemented the one meter between the axis of the chair? So that's the difference, that's the axis of your performance, that's your original sin, that you had to choose between implementing a meter and a half away, as I indicated to WHO or a meter, as you finally established in your Protocol of July 22. And all the a posteriori bandages were fruited of that caseless irresponsibility. And really, when you say that our argumental line revolves around the teacher's recruitment, I tell you that you don't believe me, Mr Counsellor; our argumental line and our criticisms have been with the manipulation of the teaching recruitment data you give, because you're computing 543 professors of the ARCO program, for example, who know perfectly that they are hired on half a day and are computing 241 teachers of child education, who know perfectly that they are to comply with the ratios of child education; ratios that, by the way, did not play in the whole pandemic, and since they look at other administrations, because they see as in other administrations if they have lowered their ratios, by the way, as well as health agencies recommended. So that I'm going to bring here WHO's data doesn't make me, believe me, even more or less brave than anyone. What I do think is that braver is to have the teacher for months leaping from a meter to a meter and a half away and that it wasn't until September 9 when they finally woke up, fall from the ass and realize that the distances that were to be met were those that were established. [[Applause]] As for the Fegamp, I'm not surprised at anything either -- it's really funny, right? -- the documents that make Galician Union have absolute validity, they're the truth revealed, but the documents that make other administrations sick -- I don't know, tell me -- some sort of partyism. Besides, we don't say it, your fellow mayors tell it, they assume perfectly... I'm sorry that someone doesn't have it so present, but go talk to so many of your mayors and you'll see how they perfectly explain that spending is inappropriate. Counsellor, of course, I know the special education centers, and I have worked on them; therefore, lessons, the just ones in that sense. Do you know what I've never met in a special education center? For example, the protocols did not include the need for teachers; for example, the protocols did not provide a basic principle, such as inclusion. You know what I've never found in those centers? That, for example, as stated in Article 10 of its Protocol, people must accompany the student, but at no time they are said to accompany him. Why? Because they know perfectly well that it's wet paper, that again what they're doing is primacy over the economic criterion above the right to our children's education, and believe me that it's something that nobody in the educational community understands. We're not a union body, we're a political organization, which you might like more or less, but I mean that, in addition, these disrespects -- that we understand and that we don't care -- are out of this background, right? But I'm going to tell you one thing, when you say: they call strikes without knowing the protocols; I say: you didn't know anything; it's clear that there were strikes without knowing the protocols, because the strikes were precisely because there were no protocols in the educational community and because you caused chaos at the beginning of the course that was completely inappropriate. [[Applause]] And look, Counsellor, with regard to what he said about our criticism of the State Government, I tell him that we criticism of the State Government do them where we have to do them; we did them when you, for example, were voting in favour of the initiative that established the distribution of the funds and it didn't seem wrong to them. What were your ten members of the People's Party there to vote in favour of this initiative? And now you come here saying that this distribution is unfair?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u61	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u62	Finished, President. Look, I end by saying something Mr. Rodeiro told me about the vehemence of my intervention -- my humble vehemence -- but perhaps some people, because we've been on the back of the fence for the last few months, in the first line against the coward, we know what the situation has been and we know the absolute disappearance that the educational community of the Education Council has experienced -- we also know -- I believe that my vehemence is nothing other than the vehemence of the clauses and the educational community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u63	Thank you, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Roder Tato.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We are delighted, Mr. Spokesman of the BNG. If you're happy with your strike, we're delighted that you're happy. We don't think we're gonna question that. I think we're all here to add up, to work and to get ahead of the education system. And, in that spirit of sum, Mr. Álvarez, indeed, you said here that I was mayor, and delighted to be so. The truth is that I also add myself to that you and your group... because those who declare us the new competence - through the state of alarm, where the cleaning of educational centres is reinforced, and, indeed, local administrations are not educational entities, but if they have those delegated powers - is the State; then I think we have to add forces among all groups of this House so that they can provide the funds necessary for the municipalities to develop this important task, such as cleaning and disinfection of centres, which means greater work. The truth is, listening to everyone's interventions, I also want to tell you, Counsellor, that I would like to acknowledge and highlight, above all, the effort made by the Council to establish a permanent dialogue and an attitude of listening with all the officials - although sometimes the contributions are not what would be required to be able to apply them - also the dialogue with the Central Government, with the Galicia School Council, with the associative tissue of mothers and parents, with the Autonomous Board of Directors and this great collaboration with the Health Council and with the Amtega, which is launching a special advice to implement that Galicia is a well-technological community. I would also like to congratulate that good idea of setting up an education committee for the first time, which will allow us to work multidisciplinaryly and cross-sectionally, where we can listen to all the professionals in the educational field and also to health care, to try to resolve those doubts that are being raised in the whole of the hundreds of educational centers in our community. We are aware of all the work being done on protocol planning to start the 2020-2021 course; a work that has already begun before this school; a work that has already completed the former advisor and his work team and a work that has allowed that protocol of July to be placed on the table, which was also the first protocol of the State. And that protocol, of course, is born of these recommendations, as much as the BNG spokesman tires out here saying that the distances have not changed. For if there was a radical change, and that radical change, of course, came after the 27th of August, nothing more and nothing less. Few criticisms have been heard of you as it seems normal for the Sectoral Conference to be on August 27, when it was sued by many presidents of other autonomous communities other than ours. Of course it was a basic meeting to keep working. And that change of criteria, of course, as the counselor explained here, led to radically changing the rules of the game at the last minute. So this led to changes in the conditions of a protocol, which was also due to compliance and which caused so many headbreakers to the management teams, families and the community in general. Nevertheless, I believe that, thanks to this previous work, the autonomous community was, as the councillor said, the first to hand over this unique protocol of the State to the territorial field on 31 August, and also many other measures, such as that first distribution of 400,000 masks to educational centres, that provision of 40,000 teachers, the referral of all the masks necessary to meet the 100,000 families with children with more difficulties... Today we are at a time of the complicated education system, but I think it will be a strength for our education system to continue to be maintained as one of the pioneering educational systems: 2,300 new teachers, lowers the ratio to 9,3, which places us in the third Spanish community and on the fifth most hiring of teachers; we are well at the school dropout rate, going down from 25% to 12.6%; and we are doing a good job in the development of technology, multilingualism and increasing vocational training. Finally, more inclusion, more university and better satisfaction in families with our education system. I think this has to be the way of everyone we're here today in this plenary. So, ladies, I'm done. I just want to say that we don't have in our bad community oxen to tillage the future of our children through their education, as much as the BNG and the PSdEG repeat it, who discredit themselves by discrediting Galician public teaching. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u65	Thank you, Mr. Rodeiro Tato. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the closing of this audience, the cultural, educational and university advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u66	Thank you very much, President. We've been for a few weeks since the beginning of the course, almost a month since we started primary school, about two weeks in high school, college and vocational training, one month also less than a day since the constitution of the new German Government, and I think that in September, and in what we've also been doing this month in October, if you did a job from the Council and from the whole of the education system to deal in a decisive way and also in an urgent way with the start of the course. We had to solve, resolve, and are solving concerns, difficulties, at an absolutely atypical and absolutely exceptional course, at least in the 21st century. We have to have a true account, not to use false stories, like those we hear here on occasion -- not always, but sometimes -- by the opposition leaders, and the truth is that we have to recognize that it is not all done and that there are still many things left to structure, to organize, but it has walked quite well, it has advanced quite a bit. Of course -- I said publicly -- we're still negotiating with the concerteds, with the universities, and we have things that we're still adjusting in certain centers, but we were and we're in an emergency phase that, fortunately, is sending out. Once this urgent phase of organizing the most atypical course in recent history has been passed, they will be able to normalize the functioning of the educational system in favour of, of course, the ability that our system has to cohesion society and generate equal opportunities. Obviously, we have to be very conscious - and of course the Greek Government is - that the pandemic and this situation cannot at any time involve any setbacks in the progress made in the last decade in Galicia in the education system. The health crisis - and, if you want, also the economic crisis that will come - can't - we must not allow it and we must not allow it - to result in an educational crisis. We explained at this meeting an important number of measures that took place this month less than one day for the start of the course. They all seek, on the one hand, to ensure the hygienic-sanitary safety of our classrooms - I believe we are doing so with all caution and with all responsibility - and also to guarantee the right to education of the student in Greece. The recovery of classes in the vast majority in September in a face-to-face manner and the anti-violence measures is undoubtedly a collective achievement; that almost every day around half a million people, adding up to non-university and university education, enter and leave the educational centers is a collective achievement of the Greek society; that they are these spaces -- the educational spaces -- safe is a shared objective and an absolutely permanent objective throughout the course. And we have to be aware, ladies and gentlemen, that zero risk does not exist. To say that there is no such risk would be to lie to citizens. There is a risk; zero risk is essentially impossible to achieve. I think that, fortunately - we just gave the data - the situation in Galicia, compared to the rest of Spain, is fine. Comparably it's better than the averages of Spain; now, we must not lower our guard, we must be careful, we must be respectful and realize that zero risk does not exist. The important thing is not just to fight so that no infections happen, that it is, of course, and we have to be aware that there will be them, but what we have to do - and so we are doing - is reacting quickly, we have to react as quickly as possible to ensure security to the whole of society and of course to the whole of the student. We all have, in this sense, to assume a collective responsibility, which is to live together - we unfortunately do not have another one - with an epidemic situation and have to ensure, in this situation of the epidemic, the educational system. Opposition gentlemen, I ask you to recognize to a certain extent, even if you tell it through your little mouth, that the start of the course was reasonably well, with a great normality within a huge exceptionality. I don't accept that if he accuses us of manipulation, putting it into our mouths, specifically in my words or data that we haven't said. Isn't it true that there are 2,300 more teachers? Is it not true -- this is the third time I say it in this House -- that around a thousand nine hundred and peak teachers are from the ARCO program? How can you accuse me of saying the same thing twice in the House? I am clearly saying this: 2,300 teachers, approximately a thousand of the ARCO programme. I said this three times; with which, we can't be accused in any case of manipulation when whoever gives the real data in this case is this advisor's office. Of course, we also do not deny that there are still issues that need to be adapted, that need to be strengthened, that we have to manage jointly with educational communities to generate a much wider normalization, a normalization that we all know. We have to internalize the protocols, we have to comply with them, we have to get used to a different way of doing things, and we have to ensure - extremely important - that the student has proper training and that no one stays behind. It's true that at this beginning of the course you've been focusing on hygienic-sanitary safety, it's obvious, and you have to keep the intensity of that focus, but we can't just stay in this, we have to keep working on maintaining the quality and fairness of the Greek education system. And we should all, the whole of the Welsh educational system, be quite proud of the work that has been done in recent years to improve the quality, equity and equal opportunities of the Greek education system. It is true that in recent years there have been many problems, many conflicts, many needs, but we must all recognize that Galicia has one of the best education systems in Spain, one of the best. And it's no longer that this government says it, it says it, and it's corroborated by comparative reports, PISA says, when it speaks of quality, when it speaks of knowledge, when it speaks of skills, or when it speaks of generating equal opportunities, and tells it data such as the reduction of school failure. I think this collaborative line of work, always looking for progress and improvement in the education system, is what we're going to worry about, is what's going to worry about this government. They don't have the slightest doubt that, once the emergency situation is normalized, we will follow and propose a model of normalization and progress to improve the excellence of our education system, and we will do so with the tools that we have done so far, being Spain's most inclusive and more equitable system - so recognized in comparative reports - by introducing new technologies into the classrooms with brutal intensity, compared to other autonomous communities, favoring the knowledge of foreign languages; ultimately, by creating an environment in which we play our future and in which we clearly bet for the future of Galicia through the formation of our youth. I think we're generating a reliable environment. There is a fact — which I have known very few hours ago — that really speaks of the confidence of the Greek education system, referred to in this case by conversational assistants, who come from many countries usually. And we're a reference, in the field of conversational assistants, in the Welsh educational system. We have and hope that in the next few days there will be some six hundred assistants of conversation to the Welsh education system; assistants of conversation that come from many countries and that they perceive Galicia as a safe place to develop their tasks. I think this is a very good indicator that, on the one hand, we are betting in this particular case on the improvement of knowledge and skills in foreign languages; and on the other hand, on the fact that there is a collective perception that we are doing well things, that educational centers, teachers, families, teachers, also the Government of Greece, we are doing things well in this field. Of course, with respect to FP, tomorrow comes the queen inaugurate in this city — very close to here — the course of FP. He'll come for something. If it were a disaster, it wouldn't come. I suppose you'll come for something, accompanied by the Minister of Education and Universities. [[Murmurs.]] Which I think is an explicit recognition of a system that works well. And the same thing we can say about college. We are of the few autonomous communities that have in recent years had a stabilisation, consensus, signed and supported by the rhetorical teams — few — and that has generated a proportional increase every year of the funds devoted to the university. I don't think that can be discussed. We improve the titration map, we improve excellence. There's a greater job insertion of university graduates. And here, gentlemen, it's finally where we're working and where we're going to have to work once we pass this emergency phase. First, there was to deal with the new scenario of the hygienic-sanitary framework, but that must be the point, the initial step, to continue working from the perspective of improvement in quality and equity. Ladies and gentlemen, we are facing an absolutely unprecedented, unprecedented situation in our recent history, and can be sure that from this government, from this political formation, we will continue to work for education — both university and non-university education. Because, ultimately, it means working not only for Galicia's present but also for its future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u67	Thank you, Counselor. Institutional declaration
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u68	Before I continue with the second appearance, I'm going to read out an institutional statement of support for people with cystic fibrosis and their families. A statement that brings the groups to me, and that says: "Cystic fibrosis, also known as FQs, is a chronic, hereditary and degenerative disease that mainly affects the digestive and respiratory system when you are weighing all the fluids of the organism. People with QF have respiratory, digestive, and other types of obstructions that can eventually result in serious infections, which in many cases require bipulmonary transplantation. In any case, if there is no cure at the moment, the life expectancy of these people is very limited and their daily and labor activities, mediated by disease. Science also advances in this field and, fortunately, research now allows treatments that greatly improve the quality and life expectancy of people who suffer it, but there is still a lot of way to get to a cure, so it's very important to continue investing in research. It is estimated that the incidence of cystic fibrosis in Spain is one case every 5,000 live births. In addition, one in 35 individuals is a healthy carrier of the gene of the disease, which means that between 1.5 and 2 million people are carriers of an FQ gene in our country, an important point because there is a 25% probability of transmitting the gene of FQ to children and children when both parents are carriers of disease-free. However, when it comes to a rare disease, its visibility is lower, so all efforts to be known will yield in favor of early detection of cystic fibrosis in newborns, as well as in greater attention to people suffering from it, who are around 2,500 in Spain. A high percentage of them are girls and children. For them and they contract any other disease that has effects on the respiratory system is especially dangerous. Therefore, the return to schools of these children and children following the crisis of coward 19 is a particular concern that should be considered with special care for the education system. The International Association of Cystic Fibrosis Worldwide, CFWW- and the Spanish Foundation for Cystic Fibrosis -FuEFQ- promote September 8 as World Day of Disease. The Galician Parliament, on the occasion of World Fibrosis Day, expresses its solidarity with all the people affected by this disease and declares the House's commitment to the special care needs they require in order to develop their lives as normal as possible. In this sense, the Galician Parliament advocates that the necessary measures be put in place to promote the access of these people to the medication they need and the creation and recognition of multidisciplinary units that help to improve the attention of this collective with equity. Even so, the Galician Parliament demonstrates its recognition and support for research into new drugs that help improve the quality of life of people with rare and chronic diseases and, in particular, people with cystic fibrosis." [[Approved by consent.]] Thank you very much. And now yes, we continue with the appearances. The opinion of Mrs. Environmental, Territorial and Housing Advisor, on his own request, to report on the strategic lines of his housing department
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u69	In order to formulate this meeting, the Environmental, Territorial and Living Councilwoman, Ms. Ángeles Vázquez Mejuto, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u70	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I come before the House on my own request to explain the main lines of the Environmental, Territorial and Living Council which will mark our action for the coming years. What I'd like to say is I'm often detailing the measures provided by my department towards the next legislation, which has just begun with the incidence of cowardice-19. These are measures framed in housing and also business soil that go in two directions: providing help and solutions to people and families who are in a vulnerable situation because of the pandemic and providing support to the business sector, especially those affected by the crisis and who need help and incentives to reactivate. With these aids we want to contribute and put our great sandstone to boost the gradual reactivation of the Greek economy and also of social well-being. So I think it's time to continue with the work done and, apart from that, to include new measures to complete the housing policy of the German Government. At this point, I would like to remind you that there have been more than a decade since the Galician Union had a full plan of its housing policy. It's a transversal policy that not only focuses on access to housing but also acts on different issues, such as social policy and fiscal policy. All is done with a clear objective: to support the Greek families in the pursuit of a decent housing, and to prevent them from suffering situations of social disprotection and also exclusion. Since 2009 we have made great progress, we have provided Galicia with a new housing law; in 2012 we approved the first housing plan, the RehaVIta 2015-2020, with a specific axis for the prevention of residential exclusion; we regulate the Single Register of Housing Applicants; we address the needs of the Greeks in the face of the economic crisis with measures of special silence and public aid in the face of situations of habitual housing loss by mortgage or rent. These are measures that have been more than positive in the various institutions. And so we launched a concrete programme of reallocation of people affected by mortgage exclusions, the social rent bonus and agreements with Sareb, with banking entities and with Fegamp to promote access to housing. Finally, we have a social policy on housing and we have specific measures and assistance for those who need it most, since the priority of this Government is people and their social welfare. Even so, with this government the rehabilitation of the housing has experienced the greatest impulse in Galicia's history. In 2019, the Rehabilitation Act, the first in history in Galicia, was approved; in 2018, we had already launched the Rexurbe Program, designed to recover and revitalize our historical helmets with the value of their properties. And we currently have, thanks to this programme, 59 real estates acquired, and are working on another 18 offers presented by 2020. In total, the investment provided for in this line is EUR 24 million. In addition, we have invested more than 27 million euros in the rehabilitation of historical helmets, as is the case with Vigo's historic helmet — with a total of 108 rehabilitated dwellings and 35 locations. I even visited one of them yesterday, and we have 15 more running, of which several will end this year. We also have the largest number of ARIs in the history of our community, 71 against the 46 that were recognized in 2009. It's a job thanks to what we currently have about 5,000 homes funded from public funds, both finished and now running. All of this is an ambitious fiscal policy on housing with the tax drop that falls within the competence of the Galician Union. So, we lowered the property transmission tax, which applies to the purchase of used housing, to favor access to housing. That type is set at 7% for the purchase of habitual housing — of course, we set limits on heritage. This decline is higher in three specific groups — young people under 36 years of age, persons with disabilities and large families — who pay less — in this case 3% —. And taxation is still lower in the so-called rural areas — which is actually 94% of the territory of Greece, because we want to encourage the implementation of population in rural areas and to empower — even in cities — territorial rebalancing. In this way, generally speaking, the tax in these areas is 5% for the purchase of habitual housing, which means the lowest tax in all Spain. For the rest of the purchase of housing — for example, a second residence — the type is 6%, and in the case of protected groups, they do not pay in this field. We've done a lot in recent years, but no doubt 2020 forces us to rethink everything. The greatest health crisis in history has spurred us to take measures to ensure access to housing, especially to the most disadvantaged groups, taking measures from the first moment quickly and with agility, and designing a reactivation plan that includes measures such as not passing the receipt of rent receipts of public promotion housing, and not the commercial sites of the Galego da Vivenda e Solo Institute and the dwellings that are Xestur owned, to benefit more than 3,500 families and tenants from the 40 commercial sites. We extend the help of the social lease bonus and the bonus to victims of gender-based violence. The coverage of 100 percent is assumed from the Galician Union — that at first it was until September but that we decided to extend it until December. And they call for rent aid for vulnerable persons as a result of the Covid-19, with a budget allocation of 7.9 million euros, which could be applied for until 30 September and which are now in the process of processing and resolution. Well, it's true that three days later the central government, without prior summons from and without counting the autonomous communities, decided to publish in the BOE that it has no limit to this line as to the dates it refers to. We could hardly do it that way. With this whole base and taking into account the situation we are currently going through, we are designing and finalizing what housing measures will be for the next five years. And this is something we don't want to do alone and that is unilateral, but we want to rely on all of us, and we want to count on the consensus of all the actors involved, with the visa and pleasure of citizenship, but also of the sector, betting on social dialogue, listening to the needs of the families and also of the businesses of Greece right now and holding hands to all the suggestions that allow us to design and improve the housing policy that we can afford. And here too, with the hands of the various groups in Parliament, as we did at the Vivenda Observatory. In fact, it was last Friday when we presented to the Vivenda Observatory a first document, a document that is not closed and that is open to change, of what we want is our social pact for housing. As you know, in this observatory, all the actors involved in the housing sector in Galicia are represented, it's the Junta of Galicia, there are the municipalities and there are the promoters and the builders, there are the consumers, the architects, the repairers, the real estate agents and estate managers, the land registers and the notaries, the financial entities and also the entrepreneurs. We have all transferred the document to them with our proposals for the social pact for housing, with the aim of being subjected to analysis and consideration and to propose their approach, both in order to shape a strategy and to compute it in three ways: to be this consensus, to be realistic and, above all, to be effective. Our proposal, for the period 2021-2025, is a complete document in which we address access to housing from every point of view. It's a proposal that has a marked roadmap, with a total of 48 measures, of which 10 are completely new, with which we seek to invest directly 300 million euros in five years and reach 40,000 homes. This social pact is designed to benefit Galician families and professionals, and it has the job as the main axis to boost economic reactivation as well after the pandemic. What we want is to continue to promote sustainable housing, environmentally friendly housing, boost actions that result in energy saving and also accessibility, and use materials that help reduce carbon footprint in a gentle but also humanized urban and rural environment. So our goal for the next few years is to move forward in the measures initiated over the last decade to increase equal opportunities in access to decent living conditions, especially with regard to access to housing. To that end, we seek to continue those measures by adapting them at this time. And at the same time, we want to encourage new ones who mainly wager for rent, for the rehabilitation of housing — which we understand is fundamental because we have a rich heritage — and also for the fight against residential exclusion. Among the new measures proposed by the Union and which make up the social pact for housing are especially ten actions. These are measures that promote access to housing, the drive to access the most disadvantaged groups, betting on the young and redesigning the Empty Housing Program. A line of aid will be called for the purchase of protected housing from up to 20,000 euros for families with incomes less than 4.5 times the Iprem. These housing may be a new construction or rehabilitation product, preferably located in the Rexurbe areas. In this way, we will achieve a double objective: to facilitate access to property and to dynamize the construction sector by driving the market out of this protected housing. In addition, within the framework of this social pact, we see the need to put in place a new rental program with a purchase option for those under 35 years of age. This programme will include grants up to 6,000 euros for owners. The owner of the housing must include in his lease contracts for young people under 35 years of age the option of buying up to the fifth year, and maintain the selling price set out in the lease contract. This is a measure that facilitates the emancipation of young people and girls and allows them to guide their working life before making the final decision to acquire the housing in which they live. We also want to continue with our commitment to promoting unused housing rental by including new incentives to their owners, with subsidies of up to 6,000 euros in exchange for the lease on a profit and rent management regime by the Board for ten years, and ensuring owners a monthly income and insurance for damages. In this issue, we will also put into operation a record of evaluation reports of buildings, in which the evaluations of buildings over 50 years old will be integrated, to know their state of conservation, the degree of accessibility and also to introduce us into the energy field. The measures proposed in the social pact also include, as cannot be otherwise, the commitment to rehabilitation, to boost rural development, and the measures that encourage the settlement of the population. In this line, we intend to promote the improvement of housing in rural centres with help for individuals who are self-promoting housing in municipalities with a negative demographic balance, so that the permanent settlement of families in real estates is encouraged that in many cases — and so the study is carried out — are in a state of abandonment after being transmitted by inheritances or prayers. Even so, we want to make available to the municipalities a computer platform so that they can create a log of abandoned cores to facilitate rehabilitation works, and thus simplify the procurement or rental procedures in homes that may be in ruins. And we want to launch indirect rehabilitation support programmes through the signing of agreements with associations or entities to encourage the financing of private rehabilitation works, thus collaborating in the professionalization of the sector through specific training in the field of rehabilitation. Finally, we also propose measures aimed at companies, both small entrepreneurs in the towns and cities of Greece and entrepreneurs who have their business in business parks. So we want to develop a business site use plan, and make available those held by the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo in rent with a shortage of two years and with incomes limited to the next five years. This plan will be directed mainly to new entrepreneurs with the aim of promoting the implementation of new business and business activities. On the other hand, we seek to promote the implementation of major business initiatives in rural areas. In this way, we will address the possibility of adjudicating alone by signing a three-band agreement — together with municipalities and businesses — to make the workers living in rent available at moderate prices. And we're thinking of summoning help to local business parks. Our goal is to develop small business and business areas that facilitate business and business settlement in rural areas and for activities that are job generators. These would be mixed spaces where the Union would assume 50% of the investment. These ten are the new housing means that we propose to develop in the coming years, that we have to add them to the other 38 that we continue and that we will strengthen. They are the ones that make up our bet and the social pact in the edio da vienda; a living document, a document open to changes, and which now has to be analysed and evaluated by the sector and all the actors involved. What we want is to hold the hand of dialogue to develop a comprehensive and comprehensive strategy that elaborates and addresses all the perspectives of housing, which is designed for families and also for businesses, which helps us to boost Galicia's economic and social reactivation. That's why we propose those ten new measures and close to the forty that are already active. And among the active ones, which are developing right now, we have to highlight the construction of public promotion housing in the major cities of Galicia — in the case of Santiago, right now, 24 in Coruña, 40 in the office; or in Vigo, 62— and the provision of residential soil for public promotion housing in large cities — is the case of residential soil adjudication in the Coruña, in the office; in Vigo, San Paio de Navia, and in Pontevedra, Valdecorvos. These are five sites in which we have soil available for the construction of about 5,000 protected dwellings. Aid for the purchase of housing exclusively designed for young people, both in historical helmets and in rural areas, will continue to develop. And we have been granted until now — in the two years that have been in force — 229. In aid to housing rentals were 4,194 grants since 2018, with an investment of 25 million euros. We also highlight the package of measures that aims to prevent residential exclusion. With the social rent bonus, since 2016 there have been 1,000 social lease bonds that we have granted. In the aid to victims of gender-based violence in the housing system, there are 120 grants. In the repair of infra-vivals in municipalities of less than 10,000 inhabitants, 62 homes, as well as in the royal estate affected by evictions and attention to homeless people, so we help 2,000 families. And our ambitious commitment to housing rehabilitation and urban regeneration has a program, which is the Rexurbe, which is what we have in mind and where the planned investment is 24 million euros. We have three pronouncements — Mondoñedo, Ribadavia and La Coruña — and 71 areas of integral rehabilitation managed by the IGVS and also by the municipalities. Another program is master housing, which we're going to continue with. Thanks to this program, 126 homes have been rehabilitated, with an investment of 4.3 million euros. There are aids such as aid to improving the energy efficiency of housing — by 2018 the investment was 10 million euros, and we reached 564 homes — and the improvements in accessibility — were 600 grants and an investment of 14 million euros; and the fund of cooperation with the municipalities, with 18 actions granted amounting to 4.7 million euros. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, since Galician union we have housing policies that have been changing to adapt to the economic reality and demands of Galician society. We'll continue to work on this line, because, as it can't be otherwise, we can't afford to be satisfied while there's only one person or only one Greek family who has obstacles to access to a home. We are aware that measures must be adapted to times but also to the needs of citizens. And that has been and will be our maximum, but it's a maximum of dialogue, not unilateral. And that is why we want to count on the consensus of all the actors involved and to bet on this collaboration, in the form of a social pact for housing that will guide us for the next few years, which is a project of consensus, of country, with a guarantee of the future and, more importantly, that it will benefit all the Greeks and the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u71	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Round of parliamentary groups. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr. Aranguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u72	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Counsellor, the most positive part of your speech was your brevity, especially compared to the speech of the counselor for Education and Culture. Apart from that, Madam Counsellor, within the great imposure which is, as a general rule, the politics of the People's Party, probably the maximum expression of that imposure is the policy of housing. In any case, we thank you for your readiness to dialogue after eleven years and that they offer that great social pact for the housing policy that you haven't made in the last eleven years. We will analyse with the utmost interest and with the maximum favourable disposition any proposal for dialogue and agreement. But, Counsellor, it should not be necessary for me to tell you that the right to housing is expressly reflected in our Constitution, when it says, in its article 47, that all Spaniards have the right to enjoy a decent and adequate housing, and that the public authorities will promote the necessary conditions and lay down the relevant rules to enforce this right. And it should not be necessary to tell him that, as article 47 of the Constitution, one of the so-called principles of social and economic policy, this right to a decent housing acts as a mandate to the public authorities that obliges them to define and implement the policies necessary to enforce that right, set up as a constitutional guideline that must inform the performance of those powers. It's not an optional thing for you, it's your obligation, that they systematically fail. You are obviously not obliged to provide a housing for every citizen, but if you are obliged to favour in a minimally effective way that right is feasible for citizenship. Nor should it be necessary for me to tell you that the Galician Autonomy Statute, in its article 27.3, says that Galicia's exclusive competence is the management of territory, urbanism and housing. Repeat, exclusive competence of Galicia. And it shouldn't be necessary for me to tell you these things, because they're clear and meridian. I'm the policy framework, the lines that mark and determine what you and the Government of Galicia should do about housing. And yet I find myself here telling you these things so obvious that in theory I wouldn't have to tell them. Why? Because you have abdicated your exclusive competence, your direct responsibility and your obligation to citizenship, because the reality is that the past legislation has been the least public promotion of housing since there are historical records. It was the legislation of less public promotion of housing in forty years of democracy, and with enormous difference. You made 24 public promotion dwellings in four years, 24 housings!, an overwhelming figure; most of all, when in Bipartite legislation, the figure exceeded 10,000. We've passed from 10,000 public homes with the Bipartite to 24 with you. All a success! And the reality is that at the end of 2018 you admitted that your plan to rent empty homes had only incorporated the shameful 16 housing figure, and that year and peak later, at the beginning of this year, only 25 homes — from which only 14 were actually rented — were actually rented. The initial goal was very little ambitious, even saying ridiculously unambitious: 600 dwellings. But the final reality is twenty-four times less than that ambitious goal: 14 rented housing. That's right. A lot of fantasy, a lot of plan, a lot of publicity, a lot of photos, a lot of display. And I reiterate that the constitutional right to decent housing does not mean that you have the obligation — fortunately for you — to provide each citizen with a housing, but it does require them to carry out public action on housing that facilitates and promotes the conditions for affordable living, especially for the most disadvantaged layers of society. And the problem is that you don't even try, because behind all your plans and strategies there's nothing — not in the house or in so many other subjects, but specifically in the house. Behind so much plan and strategy is the void and nothing more absolute. Behind so much plan and strategy, there's nothing but propaganda, advertising and marketing. But citizenship cannot escape the rain under its propaganda, and citizenship cannot escape the cold under its propaganda. [[Applause]] Counsellor, in the case of housing, as in many other cases, the Government of Galicia has given up its responsibilities and its powers to leave them in the hands of the State, which since the State Housing Plan is today the greatest promoter of aid and subsidies policies in Galicia, both to facilitate access to rent and rehabilitation. His manifest passivity led in the last decade to the absolute paralysis of the public housing park, and even to the loss of protection of many social protection homes, of social promotion, which were built, which were already built, which reflects on a much lower supply of housing at affordable prices for an alarming number of applicants in the Single Register of applicants of Vivenda, which today collects the pressing need of tens of thousands of Galicians and Greeks. The mobilization of a large unemployed housing park in Galicia has been a priority issue for a decade, which should be addressed by you. But you don't care. Approximately 300,000 homes — according to IGE data — are today empty housing. And, of them, more than 25% in cities, which is where there is the greatest demand—signally rent—. Data such as that the rate of financial effort that a half-Greek family has to make to access a residence is the fifth highest in Spain, or that a young Greek person under 29 years of age has to spend, on average, more than 60% of his salary in order to access the rent, can't be more disheartening. They are particularly disheartening data, especially when we live and live with new social and economic realities, which go through the rise of tourist housing, the new models of coexistence, labour mobility, the huge challenge of sustainability and climate change, or the demographic phenomenon that is evidenced by the loss of population in rural areas and the gradual aging of the population. They're all examples of these new challenges we're not facing. Of all those challenges and needs of citizenship in housing has completely abdicated the Union of Galicia. The Union has given up public action on housing because in this matter, as in so many others, the Greek Government is not at the service of the interests of the social majority, but of that part of the population that has no housing problems, as well as of the interests of those who have no but one housing, or of the great capital that speculates with the housing, especially the banks. The best example — not of failure, which, too, but simply of the absence of a public housing policy in Galicia in the past eleven years — is yesterday's headline even in a reference Greek newspaper, and which I quote: "Galice, a barrier to protected housing." A barrier to protected housing, a whole definition of its politics. Counsellor, the main mission of housing policy is to ensure citizenship's access to a decent housing, especially by combating the use of housing as a speculative asset to the detriment of everyone's right, just the opposite of what is happening today in Galicia. And in order to return to that situation it is necessary to make housing policy and budget provision — today minor in some cases and non-existent in others. But above all — besides policies specializing in the different segments and problems of the housing, which also demand — to implement a real housing policy, and not to sell to us plans with pompopous names, such as Rexurbe, "Rehabilitate" or "Realloga", which, when faced with reality, generate headlines, like the other half of Greek this Saturday, very few days ago, which said: "Galice leads the empty housing park by 18%, five points more than the average." Because there are 300,000 empty homes in Galicia, but that doesn't seem a problem to you. But you think it's a very important problem with the occupations, a real curtain of smoke. [[Applause]] And you have to come to the President of the High Court of Justice and tell them that the judicial proceedings have been dropped in the past year, and that the legislation is more than enough. The President of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia said so. Counsellor, stop twisting data and manipulating figures, stop spreading smoke curtains on the subject of the occupations, stop selling us propaganda plans that end up in nothing, and make housing policy, because what they've done up to now in the matter has been taking the hair off of the citizenry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u73	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Fernández Gómez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u74	Counsellor, I think it is inevitable to start my speech today by discussing a subject on which you and your parliamentary group have been insisting for weeks. Today she played, in this parting of papers, to represent the voice of anti-occupation to Mrs. Prado, with a rather lamentable speech. Recently you were talking about the fact that the occupation was beginning to be a problem, and Mrs. Prado also said that the data were alarming and that more and more victims of housing usurpation. Counsellor, when your group and you talk about occupation, or you don't know what the current legislation is and what the data is or want to deceive people. I leaned more for the second, because I imagine you would listen to the words of the President of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, who explained a few days ago that the alarm that was being generated over the occupation of housing is not backed by figures. And I suppose you, before you dedicated yourself to going out publicly for weeks creating a completely unfounded alarm, saying that occupation was a public and social problem, would know the official occupation figures. It's really outrageous to see what you're doing, waving a ghost that doesn't exist and generating fear and conflict where there isn't, both Vox and the Popular Marriage Party, of which you're part, have been trying for weeks to encourage a false problem of occupation. And the only objective of all of this is to shield the interests of the large housing owners who dedicate themselves to speculating with the housing. Clearly, the People's Party in Genoa took that path to dispute with Vox the space on the far right. And you here, with that speech that Mrs. Prado brought here today, they follow that political line. [[Applause]] Its position is clear that the People's Party of Galicia feels comfortable by comparing those policies of the ultra-right, but — even worse — they want to take it forward by innocently copying the style manual and the ways of doing politics of that new populist right and reactionary, using something we could call the Trump manual. Step number 1 of that manual is to stir up the feeling of panic—via media and systematic bombardment—that the hegemonic structure of values is in danger, in this case private property. And it's false, but if reality and data don't match that fear that you intend to infuse, you go to step 2, which is lies and misinformation. And to you, Counselor, the data don't accompany you, because in Galicia there was this first half of the year 51 occupations, and that represents a 21% drop over the previous year. And do you know how many 51 occupations they represent in a real estate park of 1,605,998 lived in the last census? [[Applause]] They represent 0.003%. Ridiculous! We have the panic, we have the lie, and the third step is to confuse people with the aims they propose. The aim of the People's and Vox's Party is to penalize the occupation of empty housing owned by financial institutions or investment funds. But to achieve social legitimacy, to get these measures that you know are unpopular, they confuse people by suggesting that it's a problem that affects any owner, that today anyone can enter into a housing — almost when they go down to buy bread or a second residence — and that they would have no legal mechanisms to throw the occupants out and therefore all the owners are defenseless. But that you know perfectly well that it's not true, that in the case of dwellings that suppose a dwelling, i.e. habitual residence or with sporadic use, you consider invasion of dwellings and suppose eviction in 24 hours. In the event that the housing is uninhabited, it is considered usurpation, and in that case, by Law 5/2018 — that you yourself have promoted and is known as "the anti-occupation law" — suppose the eviction within five days, with the exception of the assumption that it is owned by a private entity such as a bank or an investment fund. And that's what you intend to modify to protect the empty dwellings of large housing owners in a context where they know that the crisis will lead many people to be homeless. [[Applause]] And you, instead of shielding the right to housing, what you're doing is creating social panic, lying, confusing people and, if necessary, generating hate. And this is the fourth step in the new populist's right hand: criminalizing the poor, caricatureizing them, calling them "mafia", those who have no choice but to look for a roof — as Mrs. Paula Prado did — and bringing measures like the one she announced a few days ago: a telephone to denounce occupations. I mean, they propose to convert any neighbor into the eyes and the balcony police of private entities that have thousands of empty dwellings to speculate. And this crisis that comes forward will make the situation of access to housing worse, it will increase the families who will be seen in the street and those who will not be able to pay the rent. [[Applause]] And before that, the People's Party today proposed here to move the petition to the People's Valedora to work on an extraordinary report on occupation, when the Valedora's own report does not appear to be collected. And you've already dropped Valdora's own, that's not a real problem. So they stop making fun of it, they get to work, they have enough real problems to solve, and they stop inventing others who don't exist. [[Applause]] And, Counsellor, we agree that your housing policies need a reconsideration and a complete change of course. And for that, first, we need to make a diagnosis of the current situation. And the real problems that we have in Galician housing, which are structural, come from behind, because the real estate market has always worked as a secondary investment circuit of surplus capital. This always distorts the value of housing use in favor of its exchange value. But since the 1980s this disruption of the social function of housing in favor of an economic function has become even more pernicious. As a result of the regulatory counter-reforms, there was a moment of great over-accumulation of capital in the hands of a few. What did they decide to do to manage this surplus capital? They decided to move on to the surpluses, to the speculative economy, to start a process, on the one hand, of financing assets; and on the other, of transvasion of surplus capital towards the secondary circuit of construction and the production of the built environment. The value of housing use has thus become even more opaque in the range of financial interests woven over the real estate park. And the consequences of this dangerous financial adventure paid the majority of society for the 2007 crisis, with thousands of evictions and an excess park of 300,000 empty dwellings in Galicia. We are the autonomous community with the largest empty housing park, and that is a social dispensation and environmental dispensation. Ultimately, the diagnosis of this whole process is that we built above our needs. And that situation called for a deep reflection on the real estate park, and much more, given that the demographic evolution of our country does not anticipate an absorption of these 300,000 empty dwellings in the immediate future. And what did he do to Junta all these years? Nothing, simply to allow that secondary circuit of the speculative economy to reorient itself to the rental market and to start the new feast of the speculators using part of that large empty housing park as a mechanism for regulating rental prices. And the large beneficiaries of this crisis — the banking sector, with a ransom of €60 billion — are the same ones that today retain much of the real estate assets to condition the abusive rent prices. Therefore, in Galicia we do not have a housing stock problem, we have a problem of distribution of the real estate park; and secondly, of abusive prices marked by a free market that does not have a counterweight of public housing. So the first strategic goal that we propose for this new housing pact must be to redistribute the real estate park to guarantee the right to housing. If we look back, during these years, what did Junta do? Nothing, to pull out a star program that was called an empty housing program, which was a real failure — recognized even by the Council itself — with less than thirty housing units mobilized in four years. That program doesn't exist today; that is, at the moment there is no single measure aimed at mobilizing the empty housing park. You said today that this mechanism will be redesigned. And I ask you, Counselor, are you willing to put tax pressure mechanisms on large housing holders to mobilize this empty housing park or will it all be in pretty headlines? By the way, let's hope that this social pact of housing — since you said here today that they were open to change — will bring the debate to this House so that we can also give our vision to all political groups. [[Applause]] The second strategic objective that we propose for this pact goes through public intervention to respond to housing demand. Then we look back and again we see the failure on the part of his counsellor. The protected housing is completely paralyzed. In the last five years there have been 81 provisional qualifications of protected housing. And in view of that, there is the reality of 15,000 registered in the Register of Claimants, of which 10,000 claim rent. Meanwhile, you refuse to create a public housing park in a decent rent. What is the Council's strategy in this regard? You said, in the initial objectives of that great pact, that you'll bet on the rent. And then, when he started to take measures, he said what they're going to do is buy incentives. Or one thing or another, it's not worth putting things for a headline but after there's no action. [[Applause]] And finally, you did here an account of a wonderful management all these years, but the reality is that your policy is summed up in three concepts: fallen arms, marketing and failure. First, nothing to intervene on the empty housing or on the percentage of shelter protected because they know that a determined intervention on these two aspects would lower market prices. And you're sitting in the Single Living Council so that it's all the same. Second, all they do is marketing, pulling short-term help lines that don't alter the structure of the real estate park or access to housing. And at least those measures could be a patch, but that's not the case, because they put the title, they sell them, they put a headline in the press...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u75	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u76	...—I'm done—and then there's nothing. Then they're empty because they're not budgeted. And there's the failure, not even that. There are thousands of people who, by meeting the criteria to benefit from those aids that you sell here today — those that tell us and those that give us all the titles that they have here — do not receive that help. Why? Because there's not enough money. And what do you guys do every year? Give them more resources? No, on the contrary, limit the criteria so as not to shame the small percentage of people who eventually receive such help. So fallen arms, marketing and failure.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u77	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u78	Let's hope you're willing to open a real, serious debate because the country's housing policy deserves it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández Gómez. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the scan.]] For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Díaz Mouteira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u80	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. In my first intervention in this legislation I want to address first of all a cordial greeting to all your lordships. And this time I also address myself in a special way to the Environmental, Territorial and Living Counsellor, Ánxeles Vázquez, who today appears on his own request to explain to us these strategic lines of the Government of the United States on housing for the coming years. Nor has it to say that from the People's Parliamentary Group you will have our support for the best development of this social pact for the housing that you have just proposed to us today. A covenant of continuity, yes, but not of continuity. I don't know if the honourable ladies who preceded me — both Mr. Aranguena and Mrs. Fernández Gómez — understood the message of the advisor, perhaps led by continuity in his proposals, and I note, in truth, that with little or no adaptation to the situation we are living in. I just heard Mr. Aranguena and Mrs. Fernández Gómez and they follow with the same speech, they don't change. They say we haven't done anything in eleven years. It's just that you keep talking about the same thing as for these eleven years. They're still talking about that smaller public housing, that reminder of the Constitution so good that Mr. Aranguena has made us. They say nothing has been done in eleven years and they insist and insist on the occupation, speculation, public intervention, patches... and little more than those proposals that have just been made to the Greeks and to the Greeks on housing, while they say that the PP and our president have already finished. I think they were wrong. They were right. It's actually finished the third cycle of the third consecutive legislate with an absolute majority, and we're going through the fourth. [[Murmurs.]] Those are your proposals. Yeah, we know they don't like us reminding them. But it's fine because that's the reality, and this hemicycle shows it to you. [[Applause]] This is not self-bomb or greed, it's a way of simply reminding them that the Greeks and the Greeks have trusted us again to continue to reject this country, and also with that housing policy and with more responsibility than ever by the People's Party. [[Murmurs.]] Ladies and gentlemen, everything has changed, I don't know if they've noticed, everything. And you can't keep looking at reality with your eyes eight months ago. Today more than ever, housing policy has to adapt to the new demands of society as a result of the economic and social crisis of the cowardly-19. What doesn't mean we're going to break up with the fact so far, but, as the advisor has just said, we need to continue with the work done but including new measures to complete the plan of residence of the Greek Government and help them get a housing worthy of all vulnerable groups to avoid social disprotection or exclusion. Look, making housing policy is not just building. The Greek Government goes beyond the works. The advisor has already said it, but I'll repeat it: cross-cutting politics. Of course, we are putting in place a housing policy essentially [...] and we have to start from that own housing. [[Intelligible.]] That's why the Rehabilitation Act was approved, so the Regurbe Program started with an investment of 24 million euros, so today we count on the largest number of integrated rehabilitation areas, so we also try to make housing worthy, with greater energy efficiency and sustainability, with something as basic and necessary as simple lifts that make life easier for our older people and people with mobility difficulties, to make it easier for them to access homes. That's why the Government of Unity not only sets at the point of view the building of housing but also access to a house. And you have to go over there. As has been done for years now and as the advisor has detailed, we sit on a solid basis for a new housing law, a specific plan to avoid residential exclusion, a regulation for registering applicants, or measures of various character for resettlement against the loss of habitual housing and for victims of gender-based violence; ultimately, protecting the right to housing and that the Greeks have access to a decent housing. But one more step must be taken in this cross-section, from which the Government of Greece also launched an ambitious fiscal policy with the downsizing of taxes on the purchase of used housing — and above all with special attention to the low-populated areas — aware, in addition to, as I said, that this unforgettable year 2020 needed new measures to deal with the consequences of the pandemic. And the Galician Union did not look to the other side and laid hands on it to design a set of measures to ensure access to housing. By taking a review, we have the approval of rental receipts in public promotion homes and commercial sites, coverage of up to 100 percent of the benefits of the social lease bonus, from the bonus to the victims of gender violence, and the line of aid to the renter to address situations of vulnerability caused by the vault-19. Now we're starting a new legislation, a new People's Party mandate, and we're still suffering the consequences of this virus. The first and most important thing is about health, so I want to take advantage of it to send my own and our most meaningful support to those who fight against this pandemic, to those who suffer from illness and to those who cry the death of a loved one. But I also add to the call to the responsibility of the Greeks and the Greeks, for with the help of all of them, and by fulfilling the measures imposed, we will be able to shorten this new episode. Given these new times — not new normality — now it's time to rethink, listen, consent and work on a new stage. And, in compliance with the action line imposed by the president of the board for this legislation -- that is, working from minute one -- the owner of the Environmental Council, Territory and Housing Council comes in this House, just a month after taking possession, to present us one of the actions designed by his department -- the social pact for housing. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not just an idea, it is already a paper-based document that is also presented to all sectors and groups represented at the Vivenda Observatory to study it and make us come up with their suggestions, which is to say that we want consensus and that, in addition to adjusting to reality, it is effective. The opposition to your proposals on the subject before us is clear, ladies and gentlemen, because this is a plan designed from many different points of view, a plan with continuity — at five years' notice — with a high investment commitment — EUR 300 million — with a total of 48 measures — has completely new measures — and with the intention of benefiting or reaching at least 40,000 Greeks. By the way, it is not only to benefit families, but not only to talk about that, but also to professionals, entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs, and even to encourage job creation, because many of the measures are a burden of work. And I'm just talking about improvement in energy saving, accessibility or sustainability. In addition to continuing the measures that have been in demand during the last few years, the adviser has presented ten new measures to us, one in particular, for the new scenario that has just left this pandemic, and I refer to rural areas. Of all, it is known that the impact of the coward-19 and its consequences are leading many people to resume their lives towards the countryside, with which this implies on the settlement of the population. Who else and who less has a family home in the village, some in better conditions or not so good living conditions and others who enter the infra-vival qualification and need an arrangement or full rehabilitation because they're in ruins. I could put a lot of examples of successful programs, but I'm going to put one from my province, specifically from the London City Hall, which I was lucky to visit, which were those five master's homes by which your mayor bet on the rehabilitation for rent — from 50 euros a month — that are now occupied with families with children, even from other municipalities. "A phenomenal idea, and more than there was"—they're mayor's demonstrations. Well, there it is and it will be Galician Union. And in this legislation it will also be strengthened with private and self-promoting housing in rural nuclei, above all looking for that permanent settlement of families in real estate that often find themselves in that state of abandonment or ruin by inheritances or prayers. What is more, I also referred not only to entrepreneurs and businesses, because if an entrepreneur wants to be located in rural areas, what better than making it easier to hire workers by offering them rent at affordable prices? And by the way, there are also facilities for developing and settling in business parks or opening up shopping venues. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the Galician Union, as we have just heard from the councillor, has a complete housing planning, which is not part of continuity, as you say — who are as dumb as they are — trying to throw out the message to the Greeks and to the Greeks that nothing changes. And the Greeks and the Greeks told them very clearly that they don't buy this idea. We're talking about continuity, because a plan or a government strategy has to be planned beyond a legislation. And we're also talking about adapting new applications to reality imposed by the coward. And that's the proposal, but always with the general and irrevocable goal of facilitating access to housing, being families, young people, older people, people at risk of social exclusion, and under a fundamental premise: that society is changing as well as changing its needs and demands. Counselor, on behalf of the People's Group, giving you our full support for this social pact for housing. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Mouteira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u82	Replica from Mrs. Environmental, Territorial and Housing Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u83	Thank you, President. I thank Mr. Aranguena for having had the good of me to listen. I think the time is for it to be, but I think the message was clear. And this message is to hold them hand in hand so that you work far away from repeating one and a thousand times certain headlines, from which society finally realizes that they are not real. Do you remember a member of a group who now has no representation and who has been for four years saying that in recent years the Galician Union has only built three public promotion housing? I kept repeating it once and I don't know how many times. In the end, the group has no representation and he's here. But that was also happening by repeating others, with which it's good that, when you talk about something as serious as housing, we finally study a little bit and make suggestions. We're in time to make that approach. I tell you, Mrs. Fernández, and I also tell you, Mr. Arangüena; and, of course, the hand held by Mrs. Díaz, to which I thank her for being a spokesman and, of course, if she works anywhere for a good, for that public good, and society. Mr. Orange reminded us of the Constitution, but he forgot a part of the Constitution. Because, indeed, it is the right to a decent housing but also the right to private property. So you didn't make that balance. [[Applause]] I also see that Mr. Arangüena, representing the PSdeG, and Mrs. Fernández, is in agreement with various approaches, representing the BNG. More than anyone else, but they're not very consistent with the Government. And I'm saying that they're not very coincidentally, first, because denying that there's been a plan by the Galician House on housing is absolutely denying everything, and asking the more than 12,000 people who are currently benefiting from some housing plan in Galicia. Secondly, to mean that the housing plan is state and that autonomous communities are not contributing anything, come on, it's a joke. But not only contribution, but that housing plan is the People's Party. Now finish the housing plan, we're waiting for a new one and we still have no information on it. This is going to be addressed to both of us, because they support each other and they're talking about a housing law where I don't know what the claim will be. Well, yes, some pretensions were when it was the moment of the confinement of the vault, when what they wanted was the confiscation of the funds of the housing plan without counting on the autonomous communities at all. And it's less bad than even those who are governed by the same words that you said "we've come here, but from here we haven't passed, just because we belong here." And, therefore, one could certainly not give headlines without making economic contributions. So we hope that this housing plan will have continuity. And, if I don't have continuity, from here on, I'm really going to work in this field with a purpose, and that goal is to reach people, reach families and watch out for the most vulnerable. And, of course, I think you have to put your feet on the floor. And there are two terrible mantras that draw my attention — not from the BNG, because I've been listening to them for many years, but for the PSOE, which was changing the trend — that of speculation and that of the large housing holders in Galicia. Actually, they go around our autonomous community and talk to all the people who are in the Vivenda Observatory. To talk about big captors and speculation, actually, is to be totally out of our context. So we're going to follow the transversal housing policies from the Galician Union, and those transversal policies are in line with social and fiscal policy. It would not be wrong to send a message to the Central Government so they would make the same effort within fiscal policy as we've been doing since Galician Union. It would be much better for those people and on Thursdays who wanted to choose a place to live. Still, we continued to sink into what you were moving me. They tell me about statistics. In fact, there was a statistic in which Galicia's data came out, and when we talk about statistics, they have a reading, but they also have an explanation. And it is that, within that reading and explanation, we are only talking about new, unique and exclusively housing, but we are not talking about the aid that none of the communities — and, in particular, the German Government — have given in order to choose a housing in rent or property regime. And there we have, in the budgets of the Galician Union, on the one hand 40 million euros and on the other, 36 million euros. Because Galicia has taken the path of rehabilitation, because we understand that it is preferable to take care of rehabilitation, to look after our historic helmets, to live in these homes, to give our Thursdays easy and not go so much for new housing. But yet, speaking of a new residence — and Mr. Arunguena also explained to me the skills in the area of land management — I tell you that there are some exclusive ones of the municipalities. And the land management in the municipalities, the general plans of municipal management, are the competence of the municipalities. So, and for both of us and others, I would put several examples on the table. In the office, with the government of En Marea and Podemos — and I don't know whether BNG is now part of the BNG, and if Mrs Fernández knows them — four years of total paralysis. There was no way, there was no way, in spite of all the contribution that the Galician Union made, for the construction of new housing in the Office. Well, now we have to celebrate that new housing is being built — that we have just taken out the competition — that cooperatives have also had the right to introduce themselves and, therefore, that it flows differently, Mr Aranguena. It leaks in a different way, and that's fundamental. But to accuse us of being paralyzed... there were many municipalities paralyzed. But I don't know if they remember Mr. Martiño in Santiago as well. I remember a conversation about a parcel owned by IGVS on Jan XXIII Street. Do you know what Mr. Martiño said? Man!, it was a privilege to make shelter protected on that plot and therefore would not give the license in any way. I think this was something that was put on the table. Well, at least now we clean up, now we're drafting the project and it's going to be built on that protected housing plot. I put it on the table because it's good... there's for everyone, there's for everyone. [[Applause]] And Vigo's theme is bloody. Four years for a partial plan to be approved! Four years! Imagine it. It is 1,600 homes and 18 million euros budgeted over the last three years that have lost Vigo. Of course, it's one of the cities where there's a higher demand for public promotion housing. Well, finally after the autonomics, we approved that partial plan and we're already ahead of work. And forwarding that work because I assumed I had done the geotechnicals and helped with the urbanization project. We will prepose to do the expropriations, but the project is also approved. We hope that the year 2021 will be the year of San Paio de Navia and, therefore, we can start building these 1,600 homes. These are examples that it's important to put on the table, and also to link it to what you say about statistics. But I see that, apart from all this, they are concerned, and very much — and they have named a Member several times — the subject of the occupations. But we are concerned about a field, and that field is the number of complaints that occurred in the semester, is the number of people affected who did not report for different reasons — with a large part of these people I felt, and should listen to them — and these are the complaints that are unsolved from the previous year. Which is, we're not talking about 40 or 50 cases, we're talking about a good number of cases. And not only are these people affected, but also the neighborly coexistence that we see in the day-to-day world. You go, please, and talk to the people in the neighborhood of Belvis. I was there. They'll go out to the street and tell them. They also talk to people in the Miracle neighborhood, or Feijóo neighborhood, also in Lugo. They're going through there, which they're going to explain, too, because they sure as hell wouldn't like -- if they were parents or if they weren't parents -- to have children and have to be in control because they can't get out because there's a problem of continued cohabitation. Home!, there was also in Zapateira, and I'm not going to argue whether the chalet was from the bank or not, what if I'm going to argue is that I sat with the association and had a terrible living problem with those who occupied that house, whether it be the property. And then, when they talk about these speculators, I don't know you, but I really talk to a lot of people and I know the reality of Greek. And here are a lot of people who emigrated, who made an investment and who, from any place, invested in Santiago to have two floors, to then have resources and be able to live together, because they have a pension that turns out to be small. And you don't think we should protect those people. And those people, above all, have these empty floors and they don't want to get them out of the market because they're afraid. And that's where we have to act. But I don't say it, it's what mayors say they're from certain ideologies. So they're realities. We will continue to fight against illegal occupation in Galicia, believe me we will. And we'll do it, first, by enabling a real map of occupations, which we charge at the Vivenda Observatory. We'll do it with that phone so people don't look unprotected, and there's an agreement with the Galician Lawyer College, which is professional. Because they can't imagine how it affects and how it's called for someone to give them a solution. And it's not 24 hours, Mrs. Fernández, it's not. It's not 48 hours in a second residence. I'm not! The reality is different, and we have it. But apart from all that, I'm telling you, those illegal occupations that we've been able to name and name have never come to the social services of the council or social policy, or to ask for a bonus. They're anti-systems that are seen with rights but with no obligation. So we'll stop that situation. It's true that we regret that if you refused the PNL Congress, and at the same time you give me some data and I give others. The Attorney General's Office itself recently had to dictate a circular directed at all prosecutors with the intention of trying to curb these situations. That's reality, and do you think that, being someone who owns a dwelling, is what you have to defend and provide your enabling title instead of being the one who is occupying your home? Man!, honestly, we as Government are going to brake him. Gentlemen of the PSOE and the BNG, if they live in another unreal world, tell them also to their mayors, who will be perfectly grateful to them. Speaking of empty houses, indeed, empty houses are there. The number is more than important. There was a plot and a project, and there were many who wanted to hinder it; first, because they didn't join the big cities. With the exception of Santiago and Ourense, none of them joined the Empty Housing Program. Don't worry, we're going to change, we're going to re-examine, and it's going to be Galicia's board who's in charge of managing empty dwellings. We will no longer have to pass or join the municipalities, we will do so for the municipalities where there is a demand, we will give assurances to the owners of these dwellings, we will have them to yield for ten years and we will guarantee them the rent — when they are rented. And, of course, you'll also make the insurance relevant to the possible problems that may be with those renters. Therefore, the approach I see is quite different between the Government and the PSOE and the BNG. We're still open to possible suggestions. Well, we're not going to match what the occupations mean, and I hope we can match the 48 measures we have on the table to develop them along this legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u84	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Special round of clarifications. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr Aranguena has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u85	Mr President, Counsellor, this is the first time that in this Parliament someone almost insinuates that I am a communist. I suppose it won't be the last, but I'll inform you no, I'm not a communist. I know very well what private property is. Thank you, in any case, for clarifying that private property exists. In any case, I guess it'll be more likely for you to propitiate revolution with your inaction in housing policy that we provide it with our social democratic recipes. [[Applause]] And then you call me the attention that you didn't practice today that I define as "federalism from escape up," i.e. ascending. Today they practice down, "federalism of descending escape." Now they say that guilt — as here does not touch a bottle to the Government — is all of the Town Councils. In other words, the problem of dwelling in Galicia is the fault of the municipalities; specifically, of the municipalities that you do not govern. What you can tell him is that the problem of housing is widespread throughout Galicia, regardless of the city's political colour. Counsellor, we live in a context of profound social, economic and demographic changes, in which the Government of the People's Party has shown itself and continues to show itself incapable, inactive and neglected in its work of providing effective answers to the demands and needs of the Greek citizenship without abandoning other policies that reduce social vulnerability. From housing policy it is necessary to promote measures to support people with lower incomes, at risk of death, energy poverty, special needs for social integration, with disabilities that need specific adaptations of their homes, victims of gender violence and all those models of families that present different specificities or at risk of social exclusion. And for this purpose it is necessary to carry out a continuous analysis of the situation of the housing park — which they are not doing — and of the demands existing in each territory; an analytical effort that allows for much better management of measures and actions, as well as to bring greater transparency in government action to citizenship. And for that, it is necessary to recover the function with which the Galician Protected Housing Claimant Register was born, as well as the Galego Vivenda Observatory, today fully underused instruments. We need to understand and address the needs of the various social groups in Galicia, especially youth, because the increasing delay in achieving economic stability — and therefore emancipation — is one of the reasons for delaying maternity and the loss of population, the situation before which there is an urgent need to implement a plan, but a real plan, not a plan of those that start with "R" that you make. But we must also meet the needs of a sector which is increasing year by year, as is the case with the older people, given that we have the worst demographic data in Spain; not the worst seconds, as in protected housing, but the worst demographic data in Spain. Counsellor, the lack of funds has led the Board to deny nearly 80% of the requests for aid to pay the rent in 2019. In front of the 3.7 million euros of Galicia in 2019, communities with less population, such as Aragon or Castile-A Mancha, tripled that amount. By the way, in 2019 the judicial proceedings for evictions multiplied by approximately 15 illegal occupation proceedings. And it's not like you don't have to fight illegal occupation -- even if it doesn't belong to you, I'm telling you. Let me predict that by 2020 that 15 times will be even greater. From another point of view, he said the other day that a judge in Spain is more likely to be killed than to have illegally occupied the usual housing. And if you like, I could offer you the figures, but I don't think I'm going to do any kind of case. He said so — I insist — the President of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia this Sunday. It's a fictitious problem you're making up. It's not that there's no such problem, but that problem is that you're magnifying it to make a smoke curtain. [[Applause]] Who else has to tell them — part of the President of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia — that you are having a fictitious problem and that existing legislation is perfectly valid to deal with this problem. Because I also point out to you that the president of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia is neither a communist nor a Bolivarian agent. And if you want to fight the problem of illegal occupation, man, don't you make a map, because the maps won't solve much, don't you put a phone down. Make public housing policy and have it in the corresponding budgets. The problem is not the illegal occupation of private homes, the problem is the illegal occupation of bank real estate — which is, in the vast majority, the problem — which has actually become, as I told you, tens of thousands of empty homes in Spain since 2009 and which are the ones most suffering from this occupation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u86	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u87	In conclusion, the data of their housing policy are demolitional and summarized in the figures and headlines I received in my first intervention. You've made 24 public promotion homes in four years, you've managed to rent 14 homes with the empty housing rental program. Galicia is the community with the largest number of empty dwellings in Spain. Galicia is a barrier to protected housing, it's the second community that less protected housing made in a decade. I don't say, say Galician reference. Almost 80% of rental aid applications were rejected in 2019. Yes, you're champions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u88	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u89	...in making propagandistic plans with names that all begin with "r" for some strange reason. And today you came here to tell us what you're going to do in the next four years what you haven't done in the previous eleven.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u90	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u91	It's over, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u92	Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u93	Synthetically, Counselor, the credibility of the Galician board when it speaks of housing policy is like Donald Trump's lately talking about coronavirus.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u94	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u95	For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Fernández Gómez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u96	Well, Counsellor, really, I tried to do an exercise of diagnosis, to consider here what we believe should be strategic objectives, because I really thought we could have a debate about what the future of living in our country is, and talk about strategic issues such as the redistribution of the real estate park or public intervention in the housing market. But since you insist here that you simply come to sell that everything here was wonderful and that your policies are going very well, well, I'll tell you what the results of your advisor's data are. You said that, at the time of the pandemic, what they did was not carry out the collection of the dwellings that are in charge of the Galician Institute of Living and Solo. You did some dialectic trilerism. What I meant was that they delayed payments, not like other autonomous communities that paid off. [[Applause]] You also say there's a social rent bonus. And first he made an announcement, which was that the count would be increased and that 100 percent of the expenditure would be covered. Weeks later it was announced that the funds would be doubled. It's actually the same measure, it's the funds needed to increase the count, but it's that the number of people who would benefit from the social rent bonus continue unincreased, still being around 700 people. Do you think that right now is a figure that reaches to respond to the demand out there in the situation of economic crisis? You also talked about help to the rent. I'm going to give you the data: 8,000 applications for rental aid. Do you know what the data was for the people who were given the help? 23%, 23% of 8,000 people! Do you think there's enough budget allocation? It's, once again, a lot of titles and little resources. [[Applause]] Aid to young people's rent: 10% of the aid was granted — 10%, 331 young people. Do you think it's enough to answer what's going on out there? Protected housing: throughout 2019 all the finished construction of protected housing was 4 dwellings. Those are the numbers! The empty housing program was a real failure. Last week the director general of the Galego de Vivenda Institute came here and asked him twice if he could give us the figures, after four years, of the Empty Housing Program, and he didn't want them. I didn't want to give them because they're ashamed of the numbers in that program. [[Applause]] And in view of these ridiculous figures are the figures that have weight and are dramatic: 1,800 releases practiced in 2019 as a result of procedures derived from the Urban Rentals Act, 1,800!; and 396 releases carried out as a result of mortgage execution procedures. It has been more than three consecutive years increasing the number of applicants for official protection, and there are 15,000 registered persons — and there would be many more if people understood that the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo is a resource for finding housing. So less marketing and more resources, Counselor! Then he came here to strengthen the Rehabilitation Act. Well, first of all, welcome to rehabilitation policy. You had to go through the 2007 crisis to realize that this land liberalization ad infinitum was not viable. Welcome to rehabilitation! But, of course, this Rehabilitation Act is conceived uniquely and exclusively as a law that aims to maximize the benefits of the great promoters. On the one hand, they devalue and lower purchase prices with discounts in expropriation or protecting the estate; and on the other hand, by maintaining sales prices and refusing to intervene in the rental market, and denying that there is a social housing alternative. Then here is the Regurbe Program. Well, before we talk about all those 3,000 homes that you promise for this legislation, let's talk about the 1,500 houses that you promised for the previous legislation. What are the results after four years of those 1,500 promised housing? Because the problem is that you ride, advertise after announcement, without ever looking back to never see the failure that you're leaving behind. And in the end what counts are not the ads, what counts are the results. [[Applause]] And this Regurbe Program is not worth it because it has to be linked to the creation of a rental public park, because otherwise we are not going to contribute to the halting of the rental price rise or providing the public service that the Council should provide, which is to guarantee the right to housing. And besides, he needs more changes, he needs to increase participation. I don't know if you know the heritage letters of international organizations, but a fundamental issue in addressing rehabilitation is not only the protection of material heritage, it is also the protection of social relationships and the people who already live there. So the first must always be to protect those who already live there. And you neighbors and neighbors will be paid, they don't care, so they don't want to participate in Regurbe programs. There are no clear criteria as to how those Rexurbe projects are defined. What are the criteria, if you can give them here, Counsellor?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u97	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u98	Because there is absolute arbitrariness in managing those projects; not to mention the competitive invasion, etc. The Union's policy is summed up uniquely and exclusively when it points to occupation so that no one can look at the misery of its policies. They have no strategic plan, and I don't think it matters either, because, total, then they don't do anything they promise. They don't have any mechanisms to curb rent prices, there's no public housing offer, and there's not even a budget allocation for the patches that's going to put in a council that makes water everywhere. And the misfortune, the great misfortune that housing represents for most families, is that it's the biggest expense and where most of the income goes. For young people it is the first step to develop any vital project.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández Gómez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u100	And for the set of people, it means basic and primary shelter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u101	Thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u102	And it's a shame and it's a disgrace...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u103	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u104	...that you rule something so fundamental to our lives.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u105	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Díaz Mouteira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is, if we have to repeat the speech, because we've been insisting on it for eleven years, we've been listening to the same thing. In this recent election campaign that we've just had, they've been tired of saying that for these eleven years nothing has been done. And I even listened, as a candidate for the People's Party in my province, to talk about dark years. Great! [[Laughter]] They can laugh, because most of the Galicians didn't buy those proposals or that message, that's the question. First, they didn't buy it because it radically doesn't correspond to reality; and second, because the situation has changed since February and people want proposals and certainty. [[Applause]] And you look like you didn't give it to them. [[Murmurs.]] So what we don't understand is how they can say that the Galician Union has done nothing in housing policy. Do you really believe that? Just think about it a little bit. Mobilize only in the last four years 130 million euros and benefit about 28,000 Greeks and Greeks, is that not doing anything? Is it also not to do anything to take immediate action as a result of the pandemic, as we have just repeated and as the advisor said, by tightening up the rental receipts, expanding the aid of the rental bonus and the bonus for victims of gender violence and assuming 100 percent of those aids? We have also not done anything by assuming or calling for rental aid for people in vulnerable situations as a result of the cod — we speak of 8 million euros of budget, and that they were able to request up to nothing? All this is just a small part, but that's for you to do nothing. Look, ladies, there's a difference. The difference between you and us lies in the way we understand the housing policy and, above all, in that you only care about that public housing, what they were talking about speculation, occupation... that is not the concept of housing policy that we have, that of being focused solely on building — which, of course, is. You didn't have to rule for many years with much less resources than any government in Galicia. You didn't have to rule with adjustments to get Galicia out of an economic crisis. You didn't have to govern planning to put Galicia on the path of recovery -- as we did -- and much less have to rule on a health, economic and social scene like we're living in. That's why the Greeks and the Greeks have placed them where they have been since 2009, and with just over three years of government, I can't understand the difficulties of any kind of order. So now the advisor said: years waiting for a partial plan to be approved in Vigo, or, speaking of rehabilitation, the problems in historical helmets with their own rehabilitations — a real one next to which you have to point out, or with such basic things, simply, as you do not find or search for the documentation of certain immovables. Of course you don't know about these difficulties, it's much easier to pull them out, as you did a moment ago — Mrs Fernández — from statistics, numbers, and that everyone interprets them to their liking. And it's better to say that nothing has been done. [[Murmurs.]] Ladies and gentlemen, housing policy is not only building but also rehabilitation, facilitating access to the house, implementing social and fiscal measures, looking for a model tailored to the needs of the inhabitants of towns and cities; but also, above all, seeking to ensure that the municipalities themselves have their own public housing park and, more importantly, to offer legal security to the owners. Because really little has to talk about Mrs Fernández's housing policy when she focused her intervention on the occupation. And something concerns the Government, Mr. Aranguena, when you don't magnify this problem. But there's someone who's magnificent, because the government delegate came to meet last week with the security forces and bodies. For something it will be! Today he's meeting with the prosecutor's office, for something he'll be! I mean, we're not talking about any problem, it's not, like you said, an urban legend or a bull; they don't say a right or not a crime, but their government partners, we can, who you represent, and also that deputy who supports the central government's policies. [[Applause]] And we just want a tougher answer to the occupation, that's what we want. And something will happen when they focus their intervention on the occupation, and, above all, when the institutions of their governments meet to treat and give more consistency and coordination on the subject of occupation. But that does not prevent this problem — of course it is a serious problem — from becoming important to you. As the advisor said, not only are we talking about occupations, owners and occupants, but we're talking about a serious problem of coexistence, a serious problem of security. So we see that, to end that impunity, with your support, we won't count. I'm going to finish. I sincerely recommend to you, Mrs Fernández and Mr Arunguena — and in general, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition — that you take a brief look at the statement by the advisor. Because I think they forgot to take note of how many measures you've been taking the Government of Galicia for these eleven years and of those new measures that will be implemented during this legislation, which, more or less and sum up, I'm talking about 300 million euros...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u107	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u108	...—I am finished—and of about 48 measures that will reach 40,000 Greek homes. And now it's time to take one more step and not only keep what works, but these new ideas that have just been formulated here. And we do it — and we want it to be done this way from the Government of Galicia — with the tender hand. We do so, as the counselor said, with the hand in dialogue and consensus, which ultimately is what the Greeks and the Greeks of us in this House expect. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Mouteira. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Close to attendance by the Environmental, Territorial and Living Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u110	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Aranguena, you'll understand that I don't care whether you're a communist or not. It's free, we live in a free society. Whatever you want. What's true is that you give lessons... few. And I'm saying that, because, as we're talking about skills and solo, you had responsibilities in business soil. And finally, we could analyze what you fought for Galicia. I'm saying it's because of what doesn't even get paid for the Greek businessmen who want to settle in our community. With which, come here to teach when one, for, if he had competences and he could fight for Galicia and he didn't... the one of communism will understand that it gives me the same thing. On the concept "multi-R" or "R", then, look, the multi-R concept must be your head, especially if you're going to be a spokesperson in the area of the environment, because rehabilitation, redesigning, recycling is fundamental right now. I don't know if you mean other mistakes or you don't mean other mistakes. There's one thing that has also caught Mrs. Fernández's attention, which says that what we govern is a disgrace. I think you should cut a little bit, more than nothing because, if you want to have dialogue, it's unfortunately other things, like cowardice, which is a disgrace to those who touch you. Diseases are a disgrace. Who rules for the most absolute majority because so freely decided Galicia is no misfortune. [[Applause]] We will continue to bet on housing policies, we will continue to bet on the most vulnerable and help the most disadvantaged. We will adapt housing policies to the needs of all Greeks and Greeks. I don't think there's any single request to meet the requirements that don't have a social rent bonus. Believe me, that's the reality. You don't see any other kind of information because it's totally unreal and it's fake. But right now on September 30th, the deadline for aid for vulnerable people, with 7.9 million euros. So nobody stays unprotected. This government doesn't leave anyone unprotected. Otherwise, ask the more than 12,000 people who are currently benefiting from some of the public housing aid. So I'm still making a proposal for consensus. Well, it's true that the concept is quite different from one another, but it's also true that if you want to contribute to a better Galicia, we'll study them. We have the hand stretched to do so, to achieve a great pact for the dwelling in Galicia, and therefore we think of families, of the Greeks and of the Greeks. We also think about companies. It is 48 measures — 10 of them are new — and it is 300 million direct mobilization — not mobilized in particular, it is global, because that would be a lot more. And more than 40,000 homes will benefit. That is the proposal of the Environmental, Territorial and Living Council. Among them — I remind you — there are aids for the purchase of protected housing — up to 20,000 euros — for families with low incomes; a new rental programme with a purchase option, designed for under 35 years; the drive to rent empty housing with new incentives to their owners managed directly from the Galician Union; the commitment for the rehabilitation of homes, both in historical and rural areas of Greece, for a territorial rebalancing; the putting into operation of the register of evaluation reports on the situation of buildings; the provision of the municipalities of a computer platform so that they can create a register of nuclei in a state of abandonment; and we want to launch indirect rehabilitation support programmes through the signing of agreements with associations and entities to promote the financing of private rehabilitation works and implement the implementation of a business site plan for the use of business properties of the Union oriented to entrepreneurs. In addition, we are committed to the design of measures that encourage the implementation of major business initiatives in rural areas and, of course, the call for aid for local business parks. And, speaking of rehabilitation, and because in the previous legislation, she gave a lot of herself and again Mrs Fernández insists that we deprotect ourselves, in legal security... well, I have on the table the annual report of the People's Valedora to the Parliament of Galicia of 2019, in which she says, in respect of the area of urbanism, and of Law 2/2019, of rehabilitation, regeneration and urban renewal of Galicia, which "are today fundamental concepts in the field of the structuring of the territory and urban space, based on social, economic and environmental support. And, from the point of view of legal certainty, this law fully fits the European and state framework, starting with the common European strategy for rehabilitation and sustainable development, in the Marseille Declaration of 25 November 2008, in the Toledo Declaration of 22 June 2010, in the European Strategy 2020, adopted by the European Council on 17 June 2010". So it's for you to be clear and don't continue to see your legal insecurity about a law that was fundamental to dynamizing, to simplify. To those municipalities that govern I'm sure it came very well to solve problems and therefore to, rather than to protect, to continue protecting and valuing our heritage. In conclusion, a great social pact is what we want to do about housing, a strategic document that we want to pick up all perspectives from the point of view of the ground. We look for it to be an important vector in economic and social recovery and reactivation that Galicia needs after this pandemic of coward-19, and a challenge to what we must be prepared to be up to what the Greeks and the Greeks expect of us. Thank you very much. Good morning.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u111	Thank you, Counselor. [[Mr Prado del Río asks for a word.]] Yes, Mrs. Prado, what do you want the word for? Give a voice to Mrs. Prado's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u112	Thank you, President. On the basis of Article 76, I ask for the floor because I have been referred to on repeated occasions by the speakers — basically by the spokesperson of the BNG — and I want to reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u113	Yes, it was mentioned twice. Yes, it was alluded to. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The regulation knows it. And it's also an assessment that makes the Presidency. So, yes, he's got a shift. [[Murmurs.]] And this will serve as an example in the future. Yes, it was alluded to! [[Strong murmurers.]] Sorry, sorry, it was all mentioned! It was therefore alluded to and the trial of value corresponds to the presidency. It was alluded to and I understand that there was a trial of courage, which was made a judgment of courage on a speech by Mrs. Prado, who was not in the debate. So you have a shift, Mrs. Pardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, that extreme left...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u115	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u116	...don't see a problem in the occupation is nothing new, we're used to it. I said in the past that the BNG became the heir to the Tides of Podemos, and today Mrs. Fernández demonstrated that this statement was absolutely true. They say we see a ghost in the occupation. I advise them to speak to the neighbours and neighbours, for example, of the neighbourhood of Belvís and San Pedro, which took place this Saturday — many of their voters, Mrs Fernández, gentlemen of the BNG. He's in a hashtag that says, "By a safe neighborhood"; a security that's broken by the occupation of several dwellings in that neighborhood. They're either going to speak to the neighbors of the Gandaras neighborhood in Lugo, or they're going to speak to the neighbours of Palavea, in the Coruña, where there's an organization that charges vulnerable people for renting an occupied house. And that's exactly what we're asking for this morning to the brave lady of the people, a social-based report to protect these people at risk of social exclusion, for those vulnerable people who don't live. Well, there are mobs and criminal organizations that are taking advantage of them. I know this doesn't matter to you, it doesn't matter. You follow the speech of Paul Iglesias concerning speculation and the great holders of housing, which, by the way, do not exist in Galicia. But that's the difference between you and us: that you don't know the Greek reality. And that's why there's a group that was before and that is now gone. Because, among other things, the mayor of Santiago put himself on the side of the occupations, and so they gave him an answer...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u117	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u118	...citizens in the polls. That's why Galician citizenship feels a lot more identified...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u120	...with the People's Party of Galicia project that with its positions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u121	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u122	I regret that the Socialist Party says this is a fictitious problem and that the BNG denies occupation. We'll still be...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u123	Thank you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, there wasn't too much time. It's three minutes, eh! Excuse me! You need to know the regulations. That's why I'm telling you that in the future you're going to tell me now what regulation is, please! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The debate is over. That's it. [[Strong murmurers.]] It's almost 4:00. Let's go back at 5:15. Good afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u124	Good afternoon. We start the afternoon session. G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the impact of the covid-19 on the presence of primary care
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u125	An amendment was tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u126	To formulate the motion, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u127	Good afternoon to all and to all. It seems that Members of the People's Party eat slower than those of the opposition. In the past full we had to regret that, being the first full of this XI legislation, after seven months without ordinary activity in this parliament, the health adviser had not come to appear. The gravity of the situation we are experiencing because of the pandemic caused by the coward-19 would require that the highest responsibility for Galician health to come to this parliament report on the measures it is taking to Junta, to explain what is happening. And today we have to regret once again that in this second plenary the Counsellor had not come to appear. I appreciate you being present here on this motion, but it would be much better for you, your own motto, to come to explain. That doesn't seem to be the point. Why not? Totally, we're just in the middle of a comparisonless pandemic, but it doesn't seem to go much with Mr. Counsellor. And that's why in the past full we asked the advisor about the situation of primary care, and the truth is that we are worried -- I told him at that time and today I say it again -- because if something was clear to us it was his statement that he was going to keep the roadmap, and it seems that the only change was the change of charge, and that the roadmap was kept. And we're just worried about that, because the roadmap that brought us here has been lethal and is lethal to public health. The pandemic came after many years of cuts and precariousness, years of lack of investment, measures for slimming and deterioration, which led the health situation to structural problems of very large size, not to small nuances but to large structural problems. Several data. In the Spanish State there was a per capita health expenditure of EUR 2,370, compared to the European Union average, which is EUR 2,880. I'm speaking on average, because the comparison is really hard to support, because that's the average, but for example, in Norway they invest 4,000 euros per capita, in Germany too, more than 3,000 in Denmark and Sweden or 3,000 in France or Luxembourg. And if in the Spanish state per capita investment is low, in Galicia it's still a lot more, and I give some data again. In Galicia primary care is below the state average, so below that it's the third in the queue, 130 euros per inhabitant in Galicia, the third in the queue, and it's still more significant when we compare that in hospital care, without being for large rockets, Galicia is above the average. I think it's a good X-ray, a good picture of why in primary care we're in the situation we're in. Because years of cuts and years of investing so little in primary care have consequences, it has negative consequences, of course. And investing in public health is the most reprehensible for a society, and when that investment is not made, the consequences are in sight. I'd like to thank the president for knowing how long I've been going on, that he's not marking me, for making me an idea. He said investing in health care is a profitable investment and it doesn't have consequences. Greek primary care is in a situation of much deterioration, precisely because of that lack of investment, and that lack of investment is a decision made by the Government of the People's Party, it's an ideological decision, according to this neoliberal position of less public services for more profit and more business for the private; that constant work of the People's Party of Deterioration and minimizing and secondary primary care for hospitals. And with this previous situation, prior to the pandemic, it is more than clear that, with these difficulties for which primary care was already being given, with many difficulties in meeting the demands of the population, the pandemic has arrived, because the situation has become unsustainable. And if the fundamental feature of primary care is to be accessible and to be close, from now on -- to be gentle -- you have to say that you're in the background, because you're not being close or accessible to the Greeks and to the Greeks. Since the arrival of the pandemic, they established that the priority had to be telephone care, care for the population of the health centre through telephone care and minimize the presence of care. But what they didn't do was implement measures, resources, personnel so that this decision had no consequences in which attention to the population had suffered deficits or was undermined, and by not having done so, because many of the difficulties that both professionals and the population are having to provide on the one hand and receive health care in conditions. And to the situation of work overloaded by primary care professionals, prior to all this, they were adding diagnostic, follow-up, isolation, identification tasks for people by coronavirus. An overload of telephone attention and the brutal bureaucratic burden, collapsed phones -- I told you in full -- administrative staff at the limit, putting up with very difficult pressure, and the consequences are very disastrous. Professionals to the limit and population to the limit. The staff of the centres are overwhelmed by bureaucracy, tracings, evidence and demand of a population that is distressed by the pandemic and the difficulties of access to health care. I'm going to read to him very briefly a message that sent me a professional who works in a CAP, and he says, "I write to tell you that at Vigo's CAP yesterday" -- on Sunday -- "more than a hundred calls related to cowardice. PCR requests, results communication, multiple-dispute resolution. This work is in addition to the usual CAP work" — overflowed, as you well know, and which has led them to be mobilized for more than a year. Go on. "So far, we didn't have to do programmed activity, now we have to do it, in such a number that it's very difficult to get the CAP not to collapse. And so one weekend after another. The only difference is that each one is worse than the previous one." These are the words of a doctor of a primary care CAP, which I suppose you know is not an exception; I suppose you know that this is the reality of all the health centers and the CAP. Staff are unfairly enduring complaints and ill-being of a population frustrated and worried about the difficulties of accessing attention, when there is only one responsible, which is the Galician Board of Health, which is the Sergas, whose action is summarized in neither forecast nor planning nor anticipation, Counsellor. They made it wrong in the first wave; we could say he caught us all by surprise. They made it wrong on the stairs, not planning the ladder well. And they're doing it wrong again in this second wave, waiting again for things to happen, without providing resources or strengthening primary care. And Galicia and the Greeks urgently need different results from what they're doing. All expert people agree that in the fight against coveting primary care is fundamental, in early detection, in detecting positives, identifying them, isolating them, making contact trails, it's a race against time, and the correctness and effectiveness of decisions depends on having rigorous and reliable media and information. It's from the few things that practically everyone agrees with. And despite that, you're not acting. Galicia leads the number of contagions without identifying the origin. This is still a reality that is reflected in the report of the Carlos III Institute of Health, and the Galician Union is at the head of the state in opacity with regard to the data it facilitates on the covid. We still don't have any information, we still don't know how tracking is going, who does it, how they do it, what coordination with primary care is. And what we're sure about is that at this point there are many military personnel, military personnel, and lack of health personnel. That's an absolute certainty that we have today, that military remains, because when it is necessary to do some work you can go to them, you can bring military, and that means they're oversized, that there's no problem with raising the budget for military, but there's a problem with increasing the budget in public health. Military personnel remain and there's a lack of health personnel. That's the reality we're living in today. [[Applause]] And that's why we present this motion, because accessibility and care continuity is more accurate than ever if we want to slow down the spread of the infections and take care of the rest of the pathologies, and for that we need to identify the problem, definate primary care and strengthen it, and transparency is also necessary. That is why we call for immediate action to encourage and reactivate presenceal attention, to establish clear and unified protocols at all health centres, Counsellor. It can't be that everyone's going to do as they consider; and that's the reality of today, that everyone's going to do as they consider. It is necessary to ensure telephone attention without delay, and for that, more lines are needed, more personnel than those lines are heeded. To clarify what is the role of primary care professionals in tracking; they still don't want to tell us what the tracking system is. And what we demand is also information and that a report is presented in this parliament in which the situation is collected...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u128	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u129	...replacements, non-replacements, holiday cover, permits. And it is necessary for once and for all to present a human resources management plan to know what the situation is, what it is missing, what the deficits are, and then that information is as objective as possible, to be able to make the decisions that lead to this situation being solved at once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u130	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Mrs Rodríguez-Vispo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies. Good afternoon, Counselor. The situation we are living in, Mrs Prado — which I do not see right now — is very complicated, but Galicia does not have a situation as chaotic and as black as you have just described. It didn't go as bad as you say. Galicia is among the autonomous communities across Spain with a lower incidence of coronavirus, and this is not a coincidence. That's because the German Government has been working since minute one before the Central Government even recognizes the state of the pandemic. He meets every week with a Sergas clinical committee, with the scientific committee, and there he decides what action to take. A clinical committee of what is also accused to the Greek Government of lack of transparency, which has names and names — and we see it today in the press — with thirty-four people. In Galicia it governs and protects its population. But by focusing on the important issue of primary care, we agree with you on the need for a reform of it, and in fact, it was working when the pandemic arose; the counselor reminded him of it in the past. The Greek Government had approved, in development, the primary care plan 2019-2021, with a specific budget of more than 102 million euros, which provided for the incorporation of many squares into primary care. But today is not enough, because the situation of primary care has added to the problem of the pandemic. The demands for care for the coward assume to the professionals an overload of work added to what they already had. We don't deny reality and we know of the problems that primary care has with the lack of professionals. You know, like me, that in the categories of family and community medicine and pediatrics unemployment is zero, both in Galicia and in the rest of the National Health System. And they stayed behind those times when there were a lot of unemployed doctors. When I finished my career, it is true that there was no speciality in family and community medicine, and that no further completion of medical studies was carried out by doctors in health centres; and today this does not happen, there is a lack of specialists and replacement lists and absences were covered before automatically, and today it is very difficult to find a specialist to cover them. I told him it wasn't only Galician. There are no experts. On October 2, we saw in the press the news of the royal decree that allows non-specialists to hire doctors: "Green Light to hire 10,000 health professionals without MIR Square". In this way, there is a demand that the German Government was making to the Central Government already in the past legislation. And that same news said: "It should be noted that Galicia has already hired health professionals during the pandemic in its last year of training as specialists in its field. At first it was for 160 MIR and 31 nurses, but in successive orders it expanded to more than 300 professionals, including pharmacists, psychologists or radios." The German Government, once again, forward. Speaking, in particular, of the reactivation of the presence consultation in primary care—and let's go on recognizing the great importance of the presence consultation—, I imagine that you pose it in the sense of giving it more intensity or speed and not with the meaning of making it work again, because the presence care is being done and never stopped, even when the first wave of the pandemic affected Galicia. What was done was to introduce a first telephone consultation in which a patient's assessment is made, and if the professional considers it necessary, he is given a presence quote in a programmed manner in order to avoid both the infection and the spread of the virus. This is a measure that seems reasonable to us, and it is a measure of prudence and security, which is, moreover, not exclusive to Galicia, but that it has been adopted in most autonomous communities. The advantage in addition to this phone call is that it enables people with symptomatology compatible with covid infection to be detected and thus facilitates early detention and reduces the risk of secondary transmission. On the other hand, the telephone consultation — which had already been held in Galicia since 2013 — is one of the best-valued services for patients, because it is indeed accessible, and also because it prevents a lot of displacements, and in rural Galicia, this is very much appreciated. What you might want to do — and you're right — is to improve this non-presental attention with new technological possibilities, such as attention, for example, through the video call, and of course to ensure telephone attention without delay; in that we absolutely agree with you. We think we need to move forward in a mixed model to respond to the demands for care for the coward-19 and also for the rest of the pathologies. And in Sergas we have ICT, the Janus, the Telea platform. In the report itself made by the Ministry of Health, Mr. Torrado, it highlights precisely how essential the management of the Galician pandemic that health personnel in Galicia had already worked with these ICTs and highlighted them precisely as essential in the successful management of the pandemic. On the Telea platform — which was criticized a lot by you, and I remember when you presented it to this Chamber the previous health adviser in 2017 — it was said that the user would be charged, which was only used to give business to private companies, which was not the solution for anything... do you know the number of patients with copper monitored daily at home? Do you know how quiet all those people were in their homes because they were controlled three times a day? Do you know that the optionals were going forward in the worsening of the disease in many cases and that allowed you to save a few lives? I do know, because it touched me closely. And they looked after themselves and they kept caring for thousands of patients, and, you know, it wasn't worth anything. With regard to clear and unified protocols for the care of patients, fully agree. As the situation evolves, because it's going to be revised and modified, because the scenario in which we find ourselves is a dynamic scenario; we move in a scenario that also obliges us to make these protocols dynamic. In the past few days, we read a news story in a newspaper: "The Sergas and the pediatricians are kicking the protocol to avoid overloads." If you remember, at the beginning of the school course, pediatricians had an overload of work in their health centers. It was necessary to review the protocol and health response: "It will do PCR tests to teachers and students in a specific car-cavid." The response was not made to wait, the suspected cases were derived directly from hospitals without going through primary, with which the burden of work of the optionals was relieved. There's a problem, and the German Government is trying to find a solution. With regard to the themes of tracking work, it is clear that there is a need to strengthen coordination of primary care personnel in the tracking system and protocols. I've heard several times talking here about the opposition of the tracker and the fear of reducing the tracking work to a ship in an industrial polygon of the Crown. And I'd like to make a small contribution. From the dissolution of Parliament until I took possession of the full past I've been working on my square in the Epidemiological Alert Service of the Territorial Healing in Ourense. All my companions and companions in the service worked on endless days, including weekends, in tracking work; and I can assure you that none of us have ever been on the Bergondo industrial ship. So I just want to thank the advisor in the past full who didn't fall into that little trap of opposition and who didn't get into his game of trying to reduce the tracking system to work that people do in that contact tracking center, which is a very valuable and very important job, but which is one more part in a process in which many professionals, colleagues with whom I have the honor of working and those who oppose it, seem to want to underestimate. You will know, but I believe that both the epidemiology and preventive medicine professionals and primary professionals who participate very actively in the tracking process have felt called upon by the advisor when he refused to accept that restrictive definition of trackers in which you are engaged. [[Applause]] As for the human resources management plan, we also agree with you on the need for it once the limitation on State replenishment rates has been completed. Galicia has repeatedly asked the Central Government — as you will recall — to withdraw this limitation, at least in the case of health personnel, and to reposition it to 100%...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u132	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u133	...—I have come to an end, Mr President—and therefore it is necessary to prioritize these needs. And for this reason we present the following amendment that we hope you will have your support: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to immediately carry out the necessary actions to ensure the health provision of primary care through a mixed model between presenceal and non-presentative care to respond to demands for care for the coward-19 and other pathologies, ensuring that the population has an unanticipated primary care and with staff and preventive measures for prior contact."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u134	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u135	"Second. Strengthening unified protocols in presence and non presence...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u136	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u137	...of patients in all primary care..."—one minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u138	The amendment is published. You know her, too.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u139	Well, as it's already published, they have it in the Journal of Sessions. I thank them for this amendment, because we believe that reform of primary care and health care matters to all Welsh people. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u140	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u141	For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u142	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. Well, finally, after so many times listening to Mr. Feijóo saying that there was no need to talk about health policy, which I wanted today to talk about health policy! All right, seeing the news of the day, maybe it's almost the only thing they'll want to talk about, it won't be. Yes, I say that because, seeing the news of the day, Feijóo's photo album looks like a police station's "Search for" poster. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Anyway, I also want to say hello to Mr. Counselor. That's so cute! [[Murmurs.]] Counsellor, I want to thank you for your presence, because it's not an initiative you have to intervene on. But you're gonna let me play. Many times in these health debates the councillor was not present and today we have almost two. I mean, you're always getting better, and I appreciate your presence. [[Murmurs.]] They don't shout too much, because Santalices is going to draw attention to them, that you can't scream, that the coronavirus goes through the air. And today, the content of the primary care initiative -- which is quite close enough -- we didn't intend to talk about trackers; but, of course, it is that... yes, I appreciate the counselor, I don't think we should insist on a little bit and dig in the wound, because, of course, we were famous these two weeks for a somewhat unwise response. But allow me just one clarification — and we're still talking about trackers —. If it was -- I think it was a good point -- a restrictive definition and a trap to ask for the number of trackers, why did Feijó give an exact number at some point? Was it a cheater or was it a restrictive definition? Because it's hard to defend that you don't have to talk strictly about a number after you've given numbers -- in an election campaign, of course -- and when you kick... There's no need to justify Feijó always, which may sometimes be that he makes some mistake; sometimes he doesn't. So, I'd say don't try it when you make mistakes, and that would also help some parliamentary responses that were clearer rather than defending anyone. We, on the initiative itself, which we believe is very interesting, have already expressed our support in advance. We believe that it is obviously relevant and relevant — there is no doubt about it — and it is an initiative that conceptually raises very broad aspects. We therefore believe that amending the specific aspects did not make so much sense because we shared the essence of the initiative. Therefore, that support. If we want to raise a few questions from our point of view. We do not share the qualification or understanding of primary care in that classical concept of entry door. It's physically on most occasions, but, by using a similar already house, it's much more the living room. It must be primary attention to the axis of the system, the central and nuclear element of the system. This means that it must not subordinate other types of specializations, but it must have a much greater protagonist than it has up to now. Let us be frank: in fact, the health system somehow failed to prioritize the hospital's perceived specialties about primary care at some point. We may have argued from politics that we don't, but reality is that, and conceptually in the minds of users and users, it's true that primary care was wrongly conceived as a younger sister. And that shouldn't be. We don't say it should be the opposite, but at least the same level. Because primary care has demonstrated, demonstrated and will prove that it is probably the most decisive element of the health system, which is also in more direct contact with the population and, therefore, what we need to strengthen more. He also suffered the most in the 11 years of Government Feijóo. Over the past eleven years we have lost 1,100 professionals and 140 million annual budgeting, and this is enough money and too professional to have a well-enhanced system. So we defend clearly strengthened primary care, especially where we always point out what we believe, the central element that we must prioritize, and what is also the core of the system, which is human resources. 1,100 professionals less in eleven years; they say budgets: 1,100 professionals less. Because if someone defends that there is more, they explain how they pay. 1,100 professionals less. And there are obviously difficulties in hiring primary professionals — all we know — but there are solutions. Now we've learned that the solutions given by the Government of the State were also by anticipation of the Government of the United States. It will come at a time when anything that happens in the world, from Sri Lanka to Japan, Grenland or Antarctica, is thanks to the anticipation of the Government of the Council of Galicia. Fewer messianism would contribute a little more. Of course, if there was so much anticipation, just as in 2017, as in 2018, as in 2016, that the People's Party in Spain could have made decisions like this, because we already had a human resources problem. It has now been taken with this government of Spain, which issues a decree which, of course, we consider to be positive, exceptional but positive, and which will allow it to contract exceptionally, extraordinaryly, professionally for the health system. And also, in a very timely way, and in a concrete way, warn you of possible solutions to primary care, which should not be structural or stay throughout life, but they can help solve the problem. And we call the government not making amendments like these to prioritize, and when the replacement rate is eliminated, try... No, no, no, no. We call the government to hire. They have the legal mechanisms, they claim to have the money. If there are no budgetary mechanisms to do so, we have constantly defended a number of alternatives to budgets that allow us to enter more. There are expenses that can be prioritized over others, there are legal solutions, there are regulatory mechanisms. There's money to do it, it's all left to do. Because, I was saying a famous jadester of the last century that the strategy is to do what needs to be done when there's nothing to be done; so you want to do things in the air; and the tactic is to do what needs to be done when it comes to doing it. And we're at the moment of tactics, not saying: we'll have to hire. You'll have to hire, no, hire, have the chance, do it. And every day that happens without you making a big call, an offensive in primary care recruitment, it's a lost day, and they're patients less than we've met, and they're solutions less than we have in the system. And it's up to no one but this government to do it. And from here on, everything else is cheap excuses, either to justify the boss, whatever it is. They hire, they can do it, they have to. And from here everything else is to talk. So there they have that opportunity through that decree, and we think it's important to come to her. In addition, we have talked about telematic health today, which is a good tool, not a solution. Don't put words to our group and things we don't say, we always defend it. It's a good tool, it's not a solution. We do not share, as Mr. Feijóo said, that the future of health is telematic, we do not share it. It's an opinion, it's a strategic appreciation, of course very respectable, but it's not our position. We share that it's an instrument. He has some difficulties, which, as an instrument, also has weaknesses. What's your problem? For the biggest users in the system have more difficulty using this telematic system; our older people, the older people, have more difficulties. It's not impossible, it's not impossible. Applications are simple to handle. Actually, it's useful and easy, but they have difficulties, and there's more difficulty because there's a digital crack in Galicia that's huge. You don't have to go to towns that have tremendous coverage difficulties, in Pedrafita, in Crawl, in Laxe, in Dozion, not even. In cities, on the outskirts of cities, there are coverage problems, many times, that make it difficult for people. We can't depend on urgent attention to anyone who has or has no coverage or that a person of an advanced age who's not used to correctly handling an APP on a smartphone. It's a good instrument, a good tool, but it's not a solution. The solution is to have more professionals. Because the telematics care of professionals is only being told that besides fifty patients who have many of them up to date -- and denying it is lying -- besides that, they have twenty, twenty, five or thirty calls. I have a friend who always gets late to places because he says: no, I stop here, it's nothing, and I'm going; it's already five, ten, fifteen minutes. Phone calls are nothing, they're five minutes, they're seven, they're ten, they're explaining to many people who sometimes have more difficulties or who are more insecure and need more time what they need to do or what the explanation is in their case. And so we have that difficulty, which they also need time. And so twenty more calls is not a moment; twenty more calls are quietly two and a half hours of work, as a little bit. So we're again loading primary professionals, which I think is enough to say that they're overloaded and oversaturated. And so it's not a solution in itself. We — yes, there is an amendment; we do not know what the BNG will do about the amendment — do not share the amendment of the People's Party, but if the BNG decides to make a transaction and accept it, we would be willing to see the possibilities to vote in favour. We want to be in the vote in favour of this initiative, but, in any case, there are issues that we do not like. About the trackers I'm gonna try not to talk anymore, because if we don't, at last, we can talk about something tomorrow. But we're going to be concrete. We don't have to prioritize in the future, we have to hire and we don't have to strengthen protocols. The protocols, if they follow, are done. I don't know if it's steel or...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u143	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u144	...and send them to the gym. Protocols are complied with and exist or are not complied with because they do not exist. We don't know very well what it means to reinforce. So we're going to support, open to, if there's a transaction, try to be in favour. And so we shared all of this that we just said in our position.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u145	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u146	They have the solution in their hands. Take it, or, if not, we're losing days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u148	For the author group of the motion, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u149	Mr Rodríguez-Vispo said that Galicia is the territory with the least incidence of coronavirus and that it is not by chance. I tell him yes, I tell him it's by chance, and despite the fact that Galician Union is not doing any of its duties. It's actually like this, because you'll tell me, if it's not a chance that there's no more incidence, that in Galicia on September 30...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u150	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u151	...that is, five days ago, the report by Instituto Carlos III goes on to say that 77.7% of Galician cases have no known origin; that is, there is community transmission, and that's from the origin of the pandemic. These data were never different. I mean, about 80% don't know where they're coming from, and you'll tell me if it's not a chance that this isn't going to be a more dramatic situation. It is therefore the fruit of the peculiarities we live in, which we do not have public transport, unfortunately massified, and other kinds of issues. And besides, the fact is that the average state is 39.5%, that is 37 points below what Galicia has. It's awesome. It's awesome. And despite that, fortunately we have no more consequences. I also said that there is no family doctor, there are no pediatricians. Of course, what he doesn't explain is why there aren't, what he doesn't explain is that he did the People's Party to get them there, or rather what he did so they wouldn't, because they were warned and had the data for more than ten years than it was going to happen, because people were retired and, despite that, they didn't implement measures to make it happen. Then, responsibility for a government that has been 11 years old, some will have. I say it because it's very easy to say: it's not there. What did they do? The question is what they're doing or what they're going to do to keep hiding in the backseat that there's no professionals, because a government will have to act, not just comment on what's going on. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, BNG doesn't play tricks on the subject of tracking, we don't play jokes, we don't, nor do we reduce it to the fact that there are trackers on a ship. At the BNG we came asking for what the tracking system is, because today we don't know who's tracking, how and how; we know that there's a ship, we don't know how many workers; we know that one of the managers of that ship has a direct familiar relationship with the president of the board, we know that there are soldiers; we know that there are preventive medical services, that there are epidemiological alert services doing some follow-up. What we know is that basically it's the primary care professionals who, in addition to all the work they have, do this tracking work, because they don't know who's doing it. That's what we know, and what we want is that, if they have nothing to hide, why they don't clarify what the tracking system is, who makes, how many people, where and how. That's easy, make it clear. So if they don't, it's because they'll have something to hide. We've been asking for it insistently. Do it once and we're done with the problem. As for the amendment, Madam, I appreciate the effort to reshape the motion presented by the BNG, but what you are saying is that it reinforces what you are doing. It's just that it's not about strengthening, what we have to correct what we're doing, what we have to correct what we're doing and correct the roadmap, get out of that comfort zone, and for that, the first thing is we have to recognize what's going on. And what's happening is that primary care is at the limit, that professionals are at the limit, that population has difficulty accessing the system, primary care, and that once and for all we have to eliminate the replacement rates. Of course. But there are things that the Government of the United States can do and which it is not doing. First, provide resources for primary care. They're dealing with the topic of 102 million since before the pandemic. They weren't enough before and now they're manifestly insufficient. And they don't come out of that speech. They can end that recruitment policy. Look, this month of September, the 30th of September, what do professionals report? That at 9:30 a.m. on September 30 a.m. they were getting calls to join the next day because many of them were finishing vacations and contracts that day and there was no planning to renew them or send them elsewhere. At 9:00 a.m. on 30 a.m. they were calling us to start at 8:00 p.m. on October 1st. Can this modify it? I think so, don't you? Can you modify not to hire people for a few days but by finalist contracts with regard to the origin of the contract? They may amend that recruitment policy. They don't. Why? By ideological position, because for you the professionals are those people who are filled in their breath by saying "what good they are"...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u152	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u153	...but with the other hand, what they're doing is mistreating them and making an unsustainable staff policy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u154	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u155	And I'm done now, Mr. President. You speak in your amendment of a mixed model. Of course, the mixed model can be 99% telephone and 1% presence, and that's what can't be. They'd have to clarify...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u156	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u157	...which really consists of the model and the pact, not trying to impose it using the pandemic...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u158	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u159	...as an opportunity to put in place a primary care model that is not what the system, population and professionals need. That's the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u160	Thank you very much. We moved on to the vote on the motion. I understand you don't accept the amendment, do you, Mrs. Prado? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you. G.P. Motion vote. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the impact of the covid-19 on the presence of primary care. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected. We move on to the next item on the agenda, which is non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Leticia Gallego Sanromán and D. Martín Seco García, on the search for the Government of Galicia for a broad agreement with the tourism sector in order to establish a shock plan to save tourism
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u161	This motion for a non-law has been tabled with an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u162	To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor of Mrs. Gallego Sanromán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u163	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to begin this first speech by recognizing my satisfaction in addressing you for the first time as Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Few situations generate more pride than taking responsibility for legislating on topics such as tourism and commerce, which are a determining factor at the moment in our economy and society. I also want to take advantage of it to show my solidarity and send a message from here of affection to all those people who suffered more closely from the disease of coward-19, whether because they lost a relative or a friend or because they suffered it in their own skin. [[Applause]] The first reflection I want to share with Members and Members is the need to address this historic challenge, such as the recovery of the tourism sector from unity, the unity between administrations, the unity between the public and the private sectors, sharing analyses, needs and measures. This unity is more necessary than ever, unity around a sector that needs us, moving in the same direction. We all believe that we share the importance of public policies to get out of this crisis. It is up to all of us and all of us to address the future of our tourism sector with courage to continue to be key to the well-being of the Greeks and the Greeks and is strategic in that sustainable and modern production model that we would like to have. The tourism industry accounts for 12% of gross domestic product and in 2019 it generated 123,000 jobs. In the current pandemic, the tourism sector has been — and it is undoubtedly — one of the most hit sectors, and its recovery will be complex with the passage of time, due to multiple factors, which affect both demand and supply. The tourist destinations in Galicia, as you all know, are mainly the beach villages, the gastronomic destinations, the natural spaces and, above all, the rural municipalities, rural tourism. Tourism is neither willing nor able to compete with people's basic needs, but it is, however, the guarantor of covering these same needs for thousands of families on our land. Many people in this community depend directly on tourism to ensure their livelihood and on their families. Tourism is synonymous with employment, social rights and the redistribution of wealth. Finally, we are talking about ensuring social cohesion, which this country needs so much. That tourism can continue to be a source of wealth is necessarily conditioned to which we can protect it and improve it together. The tourist sector and tourists are waiting for us. We have a golden opportunity to get out of this current crisis stronger. All of you here are aware, like me, of the enormous virtues and strengths that our tourism has: a variety of high quality products, a strong and experienced professional and business sector, full of exceptional workers and workers who showed their commitment to the worst of the pandemic. I would like to thank you for the enormous effort the sector has made since the beginning of the pandemic to ensure the health and safety of tourists, workers and the population in general. [[Applause]] The tourist sector doesn't ask for anything that doesn't make sense. This huge industry only demands the essential help to survive and regain its strength. The Galician Union does not have a powerful line of action for the defence and reactivation of tourism, and the plan of reactivation of culture and tourism that it approved in the pandemic is overcome, insufficient and lacks content to meet challenges. Mr Feijóo's government has to push for more effective measures that cushion the impact of that crisis and serve as a containment dam to start economic recovery as soon as possible, and it has to be an effective and efficient action to not leave anyone behind. Tourism must be a strategic sector in the public policies of the Galician Union in the face of this crisis, and it is not currently a strategic sector. This Government of the People's Party, chaired by Mr. Feijóo, has to make a more ambitious and transformative investment of Welsh tourism. The Tourism Council will have to assess all the measures necessary to accompany the sector in this transit and commit itself to a key sector for the whole of our economy and society. What the tourist sector wants are direct aids; they told us at all meetings: direct aids. We can make sure that tourism needs public policies to maintain its strength and competitiveness. In this situation we propose from the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia a great deal of agreement, a great deal of agreement for tourism, which is part of the Council of Galicia, the councils, social agents, trade unions and business associations. This agreement would aim to see tourism as a strategic and priority sector for the autonomous administration. Under this agreement, a shock plan should be established to save tourism companies, as a system for the protection of tourism in labour, economic, social and environmental matters based on sustainability and to promote all the measures necessary for the recovery of business, the survival of businesses and the maintenance of employment. The Socialist Parliamentary Group is fully aware of the economic and social effects that the pandemic has caused in this tourism sector in our country, and, after listening to the representatives of the entities, we consider it a priority to deal with short-term shock measures in the face of the strong impact of cover-19 in the tourism sector, as well as for its modernization and diversification, so that our autonomous community becomes a priority tourist destination within our country. The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia puts forward the following non-legislative proposal: "The Greek Parliament urges the Galician Parliament to seek a great deal of agreement by the tourism sector and thus establish a real shock plan to save tourism in our autonomous community." I am concluding, ladies and gentlemen, and I am waiting for the goodwill of the Government of Galicia to agree on the best policies to support the tourism sector and compromise that unity that will make us stronger. I look forward to the support of all parliamentary groups to this non-legislation proposal, and thus to begin this XI legislation, as the President of Parliament said in his opening speech, with exemplaryness and consensus; consensus, which needs consensus in this Parliament of Galicia. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u164	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] On the part of the amending group, the People's Party, Mr. Verea Fraiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u165	Thank you, President. Tourism has to be a strategic sector in recovery, not only because it's one of the most weakened economic motors and therefore more in need of concrete and specific solutions, but also because of its ability to drag the rest of economic engines. We knew that if tourism failed, the rest of the value chains would fail, and so it was sadly demonstrated in these months. We came from a positive trend, from a trend of growth, from record in all tourist indicators, which was broken at a critical time as was the beginning of Holy Week. We came with an improvement in competitiveness, an improvement of more tourists, but also of more quality of tourists, and -- most importantly -- a better added value of our tourism product. As I say, the pandemic arrived and the Government acted, acted immediately, and approved a plan; it approved a plan on 30 April, in full confinement, the plan of reactivation of the tourism and cultural sector, with 58 million euros. A plan — in addition, it was the first autonomous community to approve the plan — dedicated to these two sectors, cultural and tourism, and with clear, concrete lines of action and, more importantly, budgeted lines. A plan that sought, at the request of the sector, to highlight Galicia as a secure destination. Got it. We guarantee the safety of tourist workers, residents themselves and economic operators as well. A plan with shock measures, such as the hygienic-sanitary protocols, such as training measures and how direct aids were to adapt hotel and host establishments to a reopening situation. And also a series of batteries that allowed you to start testing a post-pandemic situation. A complete plan, a serious plan, a solvent plan, in advance, with that concept of reactivating the value chain of tourism and, more importantly, a dynamic plan, an open plan, a strategy that, as I say, is open to proposals from parliamentary groups, but also from all agents. There was dialogue, talking with more than 200 agents, presenting one hundred and seventy concrete proposals, and 70% of these proposals are incorporated into this plan. So, a plan in advance, with dialogue. The Vice-President of the Board himself described here the future strategies of the tourism sector, he was the first adviser to attend, he added to the tourism much of his presence. It's not a question of listing here all those strategies of the future, but they all agro-nomic these three great axes such as innovation and destabilization, the reformulation of Xacobeo towards that Jacobean decade, and of course also the integral articulation of the Greek tourism sector. The question we have to ask ourselves is whether the effort made these months by the tourism industry and the active policies carried out by the Galician Union have served for something. Were they right? Did they work? From the People's Parliamentary Group, we humbly believe that yes, they were key to the rapid adaptation of the sector and to move that message from Galicia as a secure destination. This, moreover, is how the tourist indicators themselves set up: fifth autonomous community with more tourists, 22 points of resistance in the fall of the tourist rate compared to the state average, 85% of our hotels were able to open and the rates fell less than the state average, when it fell around 20%. The situation is complicated, ladies and gentlemen, of course, with many uncertainties, but it is also important that we highlight that we are resisting and that we resist better than the rest of autonomous communities. All the autonomous powers, the available budgets and the political will of the Government — and I am sure also of this Galician Parliament — are focused on helping, reactivating the tourism sector. But there are measures that overflow us, which go beyond the competences of the Autonomic Executive or the Self-Skilling Lexislative itself, high-impact measures, exceptional measures, and our responsibility is to ask the competent administrations, to demand that they take the high-impact measures we are talking about. The Galician Parliament itself approved the reduction of tourism and cultural VAT to 4% last week; we believe it will alleviate the tax burden and also boost demand and therefore the whole sector. But there are more measures, such as the request for special European funds. And here we were talking in Commission 6th, ladies and gentlemen, about certain concern in the People's Parliamentary Group about Mr Sánchez's disillusionment with regard to the tourism industry and these European funds. There is a very clear and clear warning from the European authorities of the Vice-President of Competition, who says — and I quote — that "the Spanish authorities have not contacted the European Commission to request a specific scheme of aid to the tourism sector." We would like to know why these special tourism funds were not requested, as other European countries did, and whether this could cause any damage to the tourism industry in Galicia. I'm done. The People's Parliament — as it has already made a very similar proposal in the committee — seeking the greatest consensus, understanding that it would be an important message for the Galician Parliament to move out, to the tourism industries, unanimously, to propose an amendment with two very simple changes: to put into force the work done so far, both by the tourism industry and by the administration, to speak of a general plan for tourism and, above all, to ask the Government to have the same responsibility for the sector that other administrations are having. Let's work together, ladies and gentlemen. The self-government has already insisted — and we have insisted from here on — that it is open to all proposals for improvement, any help that is provided to it, and with the doors open to all those who want to add. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u166	Thank you very much, Mr Verea. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Pérez López has the floor for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u167	President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Let me begin my first intervention in this plenary session with a question outside of the initiative we are going to deal with, to show my respect and support for the workers and workers of the old Ferroatlantic, today Xeal, and the workers of the Alcoa plant, in San Cibrao. I tell them: the struggle to keep jobs and for a future worthy of you and your families is fair and necessary and from the BNG we will always be supporting you. [[Applause]] Already entering the initiative of the PSOE Parliamentary Group, saying that we agree with the analysis made as to the importance of the tourism industry, a very strong impact on the Greek economy; also that in the current situation, in the middle of the pandemic, the tourism sector was one of the most affected, especially being punished by the hospitality; and that, of course, recovery we are aware that it will be hard and complicated. For BNG tourism has to be a strategic sector in the action of the Union, especially in the context of the health and economic crisis we live in. We therefore anticipate the BNG's positive vote on the PSOE initiative, urging the Galician Union to seek a great deal of agreement for the tourism sector, establishing a shock plan to save tourism and thus getting Galicia to see itself as a secure destination. Indeed, the Union's plan of reactivation of culture and tourism seems insufficient. Despite the fact that already in April it was announced the bomb and plate by Junta, the doubts that it generated about its real effectiveness were confirmed by the general feeling of the tourist and cultural sectors, who understood that the plan had important evasive effects that would condition what should be its main objective, that it was no other than having a healing effect or, at least, palliative effect on the great problems that the sector is suffering. It is true that certain economic measures aimed at pemes and autonomous loans are included in the plan. But at the different meetings held with the sector by the BNG Parliamentary Group, what these self-employed people transmit to us is that they are reluctant to commit themselves, even under conditions that might seem favorable. And they're reluctant because, seeing the evolution of the pandemic, they're not sure they can continue to perform their activity in the short or medium term with a certain normality and generate acceptable benefits that at least allow them to resist, so what many ask is: indebtedness, for what? This reactivation plan has not been able to pass on to them something that we understand is fundamental: it has not given them confidence; it has not given them confidence in the measures taken by the competent administrations, and with that plan the Union has failed to transmit that trust. And, directly related to this, it is necessary to put it on the table and on the Board's responsibility that the plan does not meet one of the demands that industry agents most insist on: the articulation of direct support lines to self-employed people through an economic benefit. There is not a single word in the plan of reactivation announced for tourism and culture regarding the direct support lines for self-employed people. And this isn't a ballad matter. When the governments of most autonomous communities — not all of them — opened those direct lines of aid to self-government, all except the Government of the Galician Union, governments like Castilla-La Mancha, Balearics, Cantabria, Aragon or Madrid, Rioxa or Basquedi, governments of all political colors, joint direct lines of help that allowed the autonomous to cope with expenses that continued to rise despite the decline in income. The necessary health measures have led many self-employed in the tourism and cultural sector to be unable to open their businesses for a long time or, when they were able to open them, their activity is limited by opening time restrictions. And in this situation, the survival of these businesses goes directly to the fact that at least since June had these direct lines of support for self-employed people in the form of deep-lost economic benefits. But since Galician Union nothing has been done in this sense. With these direct aids, autonomouss could assume, at least, the so-called structural expenses generated by their businesses; and I mean the costs of light, water, rent, equipment maintenance or installations, which are not compensated by any of the measures implemented by the Board. If they were to count on those aids, they would be relieved at least one situation by itself was dramatic and could resist. Especially serious is the situation of the hostel and, within it, as I said, the situation of night leisure. And if measures are not implemented from the competent administrations, the coup can be deadly, with consequences that can be very serious for the drag effect of the closure of these establishments on other sectors, such as the distribution of products destined for hospitality, even from cleaning companies or sound technicians. In this sector certain measures taken by the Union, such as the closure of night lunch establishments, have assumed that these specific establishments have not been active since the outbreak of the pandemic until the first of September, more than six months. It didn't happen the same, curiously, with casinos and playrooms, where drinks are also taken. It was in mid-September when Junta allowed them to resume their activity to the so-called nightlife venues with the same time restrictions as bars and cafés, but limiting that activity to the terraces. The correction of the Board was certainly caused by the mobilizations of the night lunch sector, which felt discriminated against — when not criminalized — in respect of the rest of the accommodation facilities; the measure of the Board which was attempted in some way to patch up the damage that was committed to these places in relation to the rest of the establishments, but which in practice constitutes a purely cosmetic and clearly insufficient measure, since most concert halls, entertainment cafés or even pubs, for example, lack a terrace, seeing their income very limited so; or, in the case of concert rooms, these incomes are totally non-existent. That is why we understand from the BNG that a joint action is necessary to match the conditions for opening up and operating the set of accommodation, restoration and nightlife, but — it is clear — maintaining or implementing the hygienic-sanitary measures and restricting the opening and timing that are necessary if the epidemiological situation so requires, because the fundamental thing is to guarantee the health of the Greeks and the Greeks; the fundamental thing must always be health. [[Applause]] Even so, part of the cultural sector is found, from the beginning of the pandemic, in March, paralyzed, directly without activity or with a minimum activity, conditioned — as we have already said — by the hygienic-health measures and by the necessary time restrictions. In the case of theaters, cinemas or musical performances, especially in closed rooms or other spaces, they have the difficulty adding that, even though health restrictions are being softened by the desirable improvement of the epidemiological situation, they will have to regain the confidence of event attendees, and this will mean that the return to normality, the return to an acceptable level of income, will take longer. The health crisis affects us all but especially cities such as Santiago, where tourism and culture act as an economic engine. So from BNG to our national spokesperson this weekend in Santiago about the need for a specific rescue plan for the city's trade, hospitality and tourism. Because the Junta's reactivation plan almost exclusively clings to Xacobeo 21 as a saving cup to get out of the crisis caused by the curfew-19 in the tourist sector. And this is not supposed to be visible or encouraging the amplitude and diversity of the Welsh tourism sector. And — they don't understand me wrong — from the BNG we know the importance of Xacobeo, but we understand that the tourism sector in Greece is much wider and more diverse and deserves and needs other suggestions. Therefore, going beyond the collection at the PSOE initiative, and knowing that Galicia from the tourist point of view is much more than beach, gastronomy and Xacobeo, BNG understands that a redefinition of the model and the tourism strategy of Galicia is essential, seeking first and foremost the professionalization of the sector, to make it more competitive, while increasing the quality of the destination; that tourism is a cross-cutting activity, so that it should be given an important role in the structures of territorial planning, urban planning, landscape and even economic, of which tourism will live. And for that it is essential to involve social agents, local entities and tourism management agents in the redefinition of the model. It is also important to destabilize — well, coming all year round — the tourist flows in order to expand the strongest seasons through social tourism alternatives, directed mainly to, for example, schoolchildren or older people, and to enhance domestic tourism, which is emerging in the current context — and perhaps also in the coming years — as vital for the survival of the sector. It also seeks the necessary redefinition of Xacobeo and its tourist and cultural objectives, which must be accompanied by a diversification of Galician tourism proposals. The appearance a few days ago in committee of Mrs Nava Castro, who is in front of the Tourism Department, requested that the announced reformulation of the Xacobeo made by Mr Feijóo in the investment debate and by Mr Rueda when he appeared in full, would leave more questions than certain, because nothing has come true. And given the time since the beginning of the pandemic, what must be given from governments is trust, work and build trust, and the Union is not doing so. To conclude, to point out that we consider this great agreement necessary by the sector and to set a much more ambitious shock plan than that of reactivation announced by the Union, which saves tourism in our country and allows the agents of the world of culture to face with a minimum of hope the difficult situation that comes upon us. It's good to remember that culture, in addition to feeding the soul, makes Galicia an attractive destination...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u168	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u169	...with all that it means. - One minute, Your Honor. A country that doesn't care for its culture is a country doomed to forgetfulness and the loss of attractive vision. Let us therefore look after our culture and, by extension, the possibility of continuing to generate wealth in the country. And this calls for actions by the Board of Galicia that, always putting people's health ahead of them, have confidence that one can get out of this terrible crisis and, above all, generate hope.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u171	A government may be wrong, it can and must rectify and continue with its policies, but what it can never do is to remain motionless or fall into self-comprehensiveness, and less in a situation like the one we're living in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u173	For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Gallego Sanromán has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u174	Thank you, President. I'll start by answering Mr Verea. Did the policies work? No, I'm telling you. There's nothing more to talk about the tourism sector at these meetings that we've had these days. I'm telling you, did the policies work? No, and there's nothing else to meet them. And — I insist — the cultural and tourism reactivation plan is insufficient. Then you spoke here about the intervention of the Vice President of the Board, now also a Tourism Counsellor. Yeah, what they do is make ads, it's what Mr. Rueda does. He announced — that is what you just said — the reformulation of Jacob, both he and Mr Feijóo. And the fellow BNG also referred to the fact that the Director General of Tourism left us as we were the other day. We don't know what's going to happen with Jacob 2021, we don't know what measures, what budgets, what will be done. The truth is, it's been three months, the Xacobeo 2021 is there and it's not known yet. But it is not that we do not know — that, well, it is worth — that the tourist sector does not know, that this is what really matters; what matters is that the tourist sector does not know. Then, also in his presence, indeed, Mr. Rueda spoke of the destabilization of tourism; all right. What measures are you going to take, with what budgets? You don't know. Innovation in tourism, you want to bet on innovation in tourism, another announcement, more advertisements, here you only make announcements, but concrete measures, nothing, no concrete action. Because, too, how will this innovation be done, what measures, with what budget? The truth is, I want to make it clear: the tourist sector wants help, doesn't want more ads and more ads and more ads; they just want help. And a little incisus, which I want to comment on. On 28 September, the Minister of Industry, Commerce and Tourism met for a European shock plan to rescue the tourism sector. Just. September 28th. Because I see you're worried about the central government, because... and, in all this, 25,000 million euros that the central government is investing in the tourism sector. Yes, yes, yes. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, Mrs. Prado, yes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Okay. So... all right. Yes, there are many, indeed, yes... well, okay. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I would like to say further that I would like there to be a consensus, as I said earlier, because the way to help the tourism sector is to make active policies and make economic aid available to the tourism sector, so as to give it the impetus this sector needs to get out of the crisis. And we're here to work for the tourist sector, for those workers, those workers who don't know what's going to happen in a few months with their jobs. Take note, honourable Members and Members of the People's Party, and put in place concrete measures with appropriate budgets to tackle this crisis in which the tourism sector is immersed. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here to work for tourism for everyone and for all, we have to work for quality tourism. Galicia has great potential in this sector, we will work to become a great tourist destination in our country. And I am finished with a reflection for everyone and for all: don't forget, ladies and gentlemen, that we are all here to improve the lives of the Greeks and the Greeks. Thank you very much all and all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u175	Thank you very much, Mrs Gallego. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantinos and two other Members, on the constitution in the Galician Parliament of a motion to draft a proposal for the negotiation of the distribution of European funds to address the consequences of the Covid-19, for its defence by the Galician Council in front of the Central Government through bilateral negotiations
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u176	This motion for a non-law tabled two amendments: the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u177	To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u178	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Since today's Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego we have a proposal which we believe is urgent and which is essential at this time and on which, regardless of the different readings and analyses and visions of what it is or should be the European Union and its role in this crisis that we can have each of the political organizations represented here, there is a question that should be common to us: all of us should have an aspiration to be up to the negotiations that will be opened, that are already open, and that they will decide what resources we have or will not have our country to address the crisis of coward-19. We have to -- or at least think of that from the Galego Nationalist Block -- to aspire to consensus on a country's position, now more than ever, because in this context Galicia is going to play a lot of, and very important, things on this stage. Two of them are having decision-making capacity and having economic resources. So we understand that we cannot continue as spectators waiting for others to decide for us. Because, in addition, we are also playing the consequences that will have for our country all that small letter of what is really a new European ransom for us. We therefore think that Galicia, our country, should aspire to have its own political position on this stage, which is already open, both on the European funds and on this conditionality. And we have to defend our right to decide what our priorities are and what we also understand must be our accounts. We cannot therefore adopt a position which is being seen as subsidiary of what the State decides for us, because we know above all the experience of the past and whenever that happened Galicia has lost; we have enough historiography on this issue. We have also spoken many times in this chamber about the consequences, for example in the dairy sector, in the fishing sector, in the naval sector and in many others. And right now we have to look into the reality of our present, and we understand that the German Parliament cannot stand apart. The European Council held between 17 and 21 July 2020 decided to put in place a new financial-economic instrument for the recovery of curfew-19, the so-called Next Generation, EUR 750,000 million, of which the Spanish State would account for 140,000, about 77,000 in aid and 63,000 in loans, all of this, by the way, depending also on how events are going, because we cannot ignore that there is also an attempt at blocking on the table by countries governed by the far right, as is the case of Hungary or Poland. In any case, in this context, we understand that there is an urgent need for a deep debate in this country, and for the Galician Nationalist Block there are several issues that we need to address in this chamber and that we need to take into account in order to react to them. First of all, I think it's important that we remember that this fund doesn't come out of anything, it's not ex-new resources, but that most of it comes from the multiannual financial framework planned for the period from 2021 to 2027. We therefore see a reduction in both the initial programming approved by the Commission in 2018 and the debate at the beginning of this year 2020 before the pandemic. There are important funds that will see diverted resources as well. We can quote, for example, the Rural Development Fund, Feder, or we can talk about the Right Transition Fund, which, just at a time when our country will see the consequences of the closure of the thermal power plants, because precisely that fund will be reduced and that will be negative to us. Secondly, we think there's also a need to talk about the background's own endowment. Without disdaining that it is a considerable content, we cannot ignore that it is inferior to the demands made by the European Parliament, which were around the 2 billion, or the expected fall of the gross domestic product itself by 2020 at European level, which exceeds 1.3 billion. Also, by putting matters in perspective, we can see as one of the most important funds of this reconstruction package, the Recovery and Resilience Fund, is half of what has already been made available for the rescue of financial markets. So, once again, we see that dilemma, that question of who will be rescued this time, if again the financial entities, or if the people and territories need it. We believe that we must also take into account the debate that is already under way about the foreseeable delay in all these issues that we are talking about, something that you have already warned Germany and other forums. At the same time, we can also point out that from the perspective of the Galego Nationalist Block it is no less than what happened in previous years, in the pre-coronovirus era, where the poor management by both the Spanish State and the Galician Board of European Funds also places us in a more delicate position. We can remember, for example, that the Spanish State has spent only 26% of the structural funds 2014-2020 or we can see the poor execution of the RDP by the Galician Union. There is a third question that we also consider it important to put on the table, before what we have to react, which is the criteria for allocating these funds. We know today what the criteria are for sharing States, but nothing knows our country and apparently nothing asked Galicia about the criteria the State will apply to decide on where the funds go. And, of course, we can already figure out that there we're going to have some discrepancy. If the same as Member States apply directly, we know that there are distortion factors, that there are elements such as aging, such as population dispersion, such as loss of youth, which are not taken into account and which for our country would be fundamental. And we don't know whether the State is permeable or not to apply criteria that we have already negotiated for the distribution of other funds. We have the negative experience of the State's own fund with regard to the coward, which we do not satisfy. So we understand that this requires a reaction. Today, we don't know if the Galician Union even has an estimate made of how much it would correspond to us as a country. We have to define from this Parliament that we believe it would be fair and how we want to decide on the issues to which it should be addressed. Above all, because we also warned of a fourth issue, which is that we are facing a new recentralizing offensive. We know, on the one hand, that these funds mostly do not have a territorialized programme, the difference from what has happened up to now with some of those who have already persisted, and we also know that these Community policies are trying to be exploited by the Spanish State itself as a recentralizing offensive. As an example, it will be decided on many areas that are legally in this chamber and which correspond to this country and who is making the decisions is the central government. We understand that this is not tolerable. And there is also something very important, fifthly, about what we should have a deep debate in this country, what is the small letter, what is the conditionality of the funds that we know are at stake and that we still do not know whether or not we are going to receive, because we — we insist — think they are still a rescue — hence the conditionality that states are required — and what we already know, so they warn the previous European semesters, that they include a neoliberal agenda that we have already discussed many times in this parliament, with issues such as reopening the debate on raising retirement age or on the limits of public spending and many other issues. We know that in this area there are political differences between the forces that we are here. But in any case, what is not legitimate is that you take advantage of this pandemic situation and the need for economic funds to impose a single reading without having a debate in this country. In conclusion, we think it's time to take steps. In the previous debate the People's Party's collation came out of the need to aspire to European funds in a particular area, the tourist, but, in any case, what we have to see is that right now, as a country, we play to make that vision absolutely all areas and that we are going to be late. There is something very relevant, which is that it is not all decided, there are many aspects of these funds that still have to ratify the European Parliament, and that therefore gives us a chance, gives us room for action in order to intervene politically. But we must also be aware that the calendar is open, that this initiative is likely to be late. It was much better than 15 days ago that the president of the Galician board had taken the glove that the Galician Nationalist Block put on in the control session and offered to have a country position on this matter. In any case, we know, by Mr Sánchez's statements the other day in the territory of the island of Toxa — not Toja — which we will know tomorrow which are the master lines that defend the Spanish State for these European funds. [[Applause]] But we still don't know which master lines defend or will defend this country. We have deduced that Galicia had zero presence in that debate, the opposite of what we are seeing, for example, from the example of Euskadi — worth redundancy. We also know that on 26 October there will be a Conference of Presidents. So today, what we're proposing is that this parliament start to walk, that it look through a presentation on this camera for a country position, because we play a lot.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u179	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u180	It will not be indifferent for this country to be able to have its own weight and voice in negotiating these European funds or that they once again decide for us. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u181	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u182	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today I want to begin my first intervention in the midst of this XI legislate recalling, bitterly and with much sorrow, the people who died during these months as a result of the curfew-19, of them 765 people in Galicia. I also want to remember the people who suffered this virus and who overcame it, today 4,101 active cases in Galicia. And I also want to highlight the people who have suffered or are suffering the terrible consequences of this health crisis in their economic or social aspects. A pandemic that has changed our lives, which has arrived without warning a world that was not prepared to face it, manifesting many weaknesses and confirming that years and years of cuts in public services, particularly in health and social policies, have prevented a strong and prepared system, beyond the professionals who compose it, to meet without collapse the new needs that this virus would bring. In the face of this extraordinary situation, the Government of Pedro Sánchez urgently took action, with the immediate need for the situation and making public resources available to those most vulnerable people, so that no one would be protected. The declaration of alarm status and population confinement prevented the spread of the virus and its effects were even more devastating. The protection of workers and workers and self-employed people has avoided seriously jeopardizing the economy of society as a whole; more than 272,000 people in ERTE in Galicia and protection for more than 68,000 autonomous people who have been reduced to their activity or had to close their business. This situation also highlighted the fragility within the European Union, which was neither prepared to deal with this new crisis, nor did it count on the Community instruments necessary to combat it immediately, collectively, effectively and with solidarity. However, and the difference between the previous crisis in 2008, the European Union reacted differently and much more agilely. The Government of Spain, from the very first moment, together with other countries seriously affected by the coward, has led the defense of the need to adopt a package of fiscal stimuli at Community level, capable of setting up economic recovery without leaving anyone behind. Thus, at the European Council of 21 July, European leaders concluded a historic agreement for the creation of a recovery and resilience fund, known as the Next Generation EU, worth EUR 750,000 million, to invest in economic reactivation between 2021 and 2023, being Spain one of the most benefited Member States of this recovery fund, which will receive EUR 140 billion, with the parameters set by the European Union itself: population, impact on the GDP of the health crisis and levels of the recipient countries; a recovery fund that has to be used to boost the recovery of the Spanish economy and to facilitate the transformation of its production model. This agreement has brought great news to the Spanish State and therefore great news to Galicia. However, once this agreement was concluded, we had to look at the start of a fight between some autonomous communities for the distribution of these funds, mainly by those autonomous communities governed by the People's Party, and we were amazed again at the statements by the President of the Council of Galicia. President Feijóo demanded to know the exact figure and conditions for receiving the funds, without explaining what parameters he was defending for his distribution and ignoring that these funds are not the sharing of funds between autonomous communities, but the agreeing national plans among all to claim funding. I mean, once again, the president of Galicia's board loses his time to mess around, instead of taking advantage of it to work to get Galicia out as soon as possible of this crisis so that no one will stay behind. By the way, we must remind President Feijóo that, if we see the execution of the European Structural and Investment Funds already assisted by Galicia at the moment — and I am talking about data from 18 September this year, i.e. a few days ago — it turns out that Galicia does not even reach 48 % of these funds. Well, while some communities governed by the People's Party, including Galicia, were putting poles back on the wheels, the President of the Government, Pedro Sánchez, was placing the presidents of the autonomous communities at the 15th Conference of Autonomous Presidents, which have developed since the beginning of the state of alarm, and in this request the autonomous leaders to carry out the task with unity. The more unity there is, the faster and stronger we will emerge from this health, economic and social emergency. The conference also announced the procedure to be followed for the distribution of funds, creating an inter-ministerial commission, chaired by the President of the Government himself, a sectoral conference of the Minister of Fairy and his counterparts in the autonomous communities, where the local authorities would be voiced for the first time, and a unit of follow-up to the recovery fund. I mean, in front of Feijóo's crispation and his boss, Mr. Married, Mr. Pedro Sánchez works and creates co-governance processes with all public administrations. For the release of funds for each Member State, it should be requested by presenting investment plans and reforms aimed at boosting growth potential, job creation and economic and social resilience, and taking into account the priorities set for the distribution of money, such as digital and eco-logical transition, social cohesion and gender equality. This recovery fund is a unique opportunity for our country, an opportunity that Galicia can't let go. We have to equip ourselves with the most powerful tools to be able to opt for these funds and to contribute once and for all to reverse the demographic indentation we have suffered during the 11 years of the People's Party's government at the Galician Union. Ladies and gentlemen, in a decade we've lost over 96,000 people in our country. We must minimize the important socio-economic imbalances that already existed in our country. Look, in the first quarter of 2020, 75,200 homes with no income, no income in our country, and we have to use it to counter the dynamics of economic atony of the last decade ruled by Mr. Núñez Feijóo. Eleven years without industrial policy and with wrong and little ambitious employment policies, as demonstrated by the fact that in the fourth quarter of 2019 we have 46,200 people less busy than there were ten years ago, in the fourth quarter of 2009. This pandemic has contributed to increasing and exacerbating these differences, these difficulties that already existed in Galicia. Since then, recovery funds have to be used to take advantage of our rich and dynamic productive fabric in fields crucial to the ecological and digital transition, such as renewable energies, shipbuilding or sustainable mobility. Galicia has to develop a global plan, not only to combat the negative consequences of the pandemic, but to rebuild a new productive model capable of dealing with ecological and digital revolutions since social justice. Our question is, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party: Is Galicia prepared to make the new European economic path profitable? Because without it, there will be no reconstruction and we will once again have lost a unique opportunity on the path of growth. The Socialists want to place from here the German parliamentary groups, the People's Party and the Galician Nationalist Block, to work together. It's no time to question our union as a country. It's not the time to find partisan fights...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u183	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u184	...—I have finished, Mr President—it is time to unite and fight together against this pandemic that is affecting the lives of our country's men and women and to minimize the economic and social effects of this health crisis caused by coward 19. We asked President Feijóo to address his boss, Mr. Married...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u185	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u186	...and he employs his colleagues in Congress to support the state's general budgets for 2021, to be able to receive and channel these 140 billion euros to Spain, and therefore...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u187	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, your time is up. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, your time is up. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u188	For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Puy Fraga has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u189	...which is basically the search for a consensus on what projects to channel European aid to Galicia, if you do it through a presentation. That's what he's asking. However, it has the virtuality that it opens a debate that I think is very important, very transcendent, of course much more than that of getting medals to itself, which is the debate on how to evaluate and how to deal with the ingenious aid that is being processed by the European Union, certainly doing so through the states, which are the ones who have to present the general plan, about what then autonomous communities, the municipalities and even the private company — because there is also funding for public-private collaboration — hang out of that plan a general project. Also, the debate on how we can agree. And finally, I would also like to make a small political appraisal, but the important thing, the main one, I think, is the European theme. The truth is that I felt until a little bit of... I don't know how to say it, but it caught my eye at the approach given by the Block's spokesperson — which I thank you for, because it was in the search for an agreement, which would be interesting in this session, the approach that gave you, according to the opinion that we each have of the European Union, because the important thing now is to take advantage of the funds. Well, that's a recognition of something, it's the recognition that the European Union is working and is working well. If you read the explanatory statement of this proposal not of law, it's because you're left to a certain startling point. They use words such as that the European Union is being insolidated or that this is a crisis that the European Union itself, instead of helping to solve, is helping to strengthen — and you agree, aren't you? — — Well, man, I think that's not so. The European Union has already launched the general safeguard clause of the budgetary framework for this year in March. In September, he also reported to keep it for next year. The same month of March — you spoke of March — approved the two flexible investment packages with European funds as a measure of shock in the face of the pandemic, presented the multi-annual budget framework 2021-2027, which keeps the effort in cohesion policies; cohesion policies remain at the same level more or less, not the CAP — about what I will tell you later as well—. And finally, as they point out in their own non-law proposition, a shock plan that is historic, with 750,000 million euros, which will be directed directly to counter the pandemic, especially in countries that have financial difficulties to do it for themselves; a question that is also very relevant. Well, we believe that the European Union's response was exemplary. Monetary policy has not been mentioned here any more. The European Central Bank — as the Bloc has always opposed and campaigned to prevent Spain from joining it — has made a policy that has managed to maintain the stability of the financial markets and, therefore, to make Spanish debt sustainable and, in addition, to facilitate spending capacity to recover the effects of the pandemic itself in all economic sectors and to maintain, at the same time, price stability. The liquidity operations that the Central Bank is doing — we are talking about that commercial banks, under the obligation to lend it to entrepreneurs and credit seekers, are giving negative interest rates of -1%; therefore, it is directly giving the money — are actually allowing liquidity crises to be solved by many small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. The purchase of assets you're doing -- Borrell said the other day at the La Toja Forum, which took place on Toxa Island -- actually, that the central banks are buying everything, everything that goes ahead. In fact, the European Central Bank has an emergency purchase programme for the pandemic which exceeds EUR 1,350,000 million and, in addition, with a commitment to maintain this programme as early as June 2021, and, in any case, until the European Council itself says that the pandemic has passed the worst and its effects have passed. Indeed, the support of the European Central Bank that is allowing... Do you know how much debt you are buying the European Central Bank at this time in Spain? 90% of the new debt issued by the Government of Spain is acquiring the European Central Bank some kind of interest that really makes it easier to finance the economy. The European Central Bank has 56% of the European Union's debt GDP; the EDF, the American Central Bank of the United States, has only 36%. Well, this gives us an idea of the importance of European monetary policy. And if we talk about the issue of funds, because monetary policy is precisely strengthening the good effect these extraordinary funds can have, we can say some questions. First of all, as I said, there are basically 20 per cent of the total of EUR 750,000 million in Spain, explicitly to strengthen those countries which have financial difficulties. Why? Because others had a much smaller deficit, they had the most adjusted accounts, and Spain in 2019 not only withdrew from the deficit path in 8,000 million deals with the European Union, but also added 10,000, thus getting to... Let's go, if it hadn't been for European support, the country would be clearly in bankruptcy and the difficulties would be much worse. Indeed, we are talking about extraordinary funding mechanisms. I want to say that all of this that is known as Plan Next Generation EU, 750,000 million, isn't even all the Community funds we're going to enjoy. In fact, there must be a cut in some budget shares. The European budgets have dropped to EUR 1.08 billion, but if we add to it what the Next Generation EU means — which is what the new support is called — we are talking about EUR 1.82 billion, which is the largest in the history of the European Union, which maintains cohesion policy. And the CAP decreases by 10%, but it can also access the help offered by the next generation's own background. Because I understand that Galician rural will have some projects that can be financed. We've seen the tractor projects that were presented during the worst of the crisis by the expert committee in Galicia, but they will certainly be able to access this as well. Spain will receive 152 billion euros. By the way, Galicia manages European funds quite well. At the close of the 2019 exercise, taking into account the certified expenditure, the execution of the operation plan for Galicia was 37%, while the multi-regional — which is what the average of Spain — is 22%. And that's exactly why we think it's really important that Galicia have management skills. But all of this is disregarding other instruments. The SURE, for example. About 22 billion euros gave us Europe... Sorry, precisely because it was necessary, 21,300 million euros gave us Europe to pay for the ERAs, and the state was spending on ERTE 22 billion. I mean, the cost of the ERA who actually assumed it was Europe through the SURE program. Well, with all these backgrounds, of course, we can only do well to value what the European Union has done, to appreciate decisions that have strengthened economic integration, which are also based on solidarity because they support countries that have the most difficulties, and that will also allow us to evolve towards a new, more innovative, greener economy, which generates quality jobs and enables us not to lose money in a world that is evolving at a fast pace. Therefore, we certainly agree with that. The balance is positive for Spain in every way and we cannot share that negative view of what Europe is doing. There's a problem with the distribution of funds. What President Sánchez said — and he also pointed to something — is that we still don't even know how this whole Europe is going to work out. President Sánchez announced that tomorrow he will give the master's lines and that at the October 26 Conference of Presidents he will announce exactly how he intends to make the Spanish plan, in which all autonomous communities must be hung. Obviously, we want autonomous communities to be there. That is essential, firstly, for competences; we are talking about employment, active policies; we are talking about issues such as mobility, the environment, etc., which are autonomous areas. Secondly, we have the background of when the Government of Spain decided centrally, on its own, how some of the funds that were set in motion in the confinement, that Galicia was clearly damaged, for example, in education or, for example, in health care; things of which, of course, we complained about, but that seems to be putting sticks on the wheels. Well, finally, we'll stay the same. With these background it is essential that autonomous communities participate, but how? You ask for bilaterality in your proposal not of law. Well, we believe that the right forum is what it is, the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council and the Conference of Presidents, these multilateral bodies. The European Union itself is a multilateral forum; no one imagines Spain negotiating the Next Generation funds exclusively for Spain, but in the context of all the States participating in the European Union. I believe that here the BNG still does not understand what multilevel governance is, where decisions are made together, which facilitates transparency and the adoption of criteria that we can all know and, therefore, that the risks of discriminatory treatment are minimized, which is exactly what we saw when the funds were shared during the pandemic. That is why we fully understand — and I conclude — that, firstly, there is no such thing as a statement in the Galician Parliament's Rules of Procedure — the only proposals that are the legislative ones...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u190	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u191	...and that we have created a Commission for the economic, social and cultural reactivation of Galicia, it does not make much sense to draw out of the debate the projects to which Galicia aspires to obtain funding from the European funds channelled through the programme that Spain will present to the European Union. We understand that it is not most convenient to separate it, of course, from that debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u192	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u193	And the political reflection is: if we have already set up this committee — which is where we agreed to address the coronary virus crisis — then, man!, we will continue to debate all the committees you want. I am more supportive -- on Thursday it is made up -- that we set ourselves up to make a work plan that also incorporates, like residences, projects to which Galicia is to obtain with the funds Next Generation EU...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u194	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u195	...and, therefore, we want to work there. In that sense is our amendment, which is simply to continue to open, offering our hand and our spirit of covenant in that commission for all areas...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u196	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u197	...which deals, including, with the European funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u198	For the author group of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Presas Berganginos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u199	Good afternoon. As a first question — if there were any doubts, Mr. Puy Fraga — the Nationalist Block Galego reaffirms itself in its critical reading of what the European Union is in the service of a clearly neoliberal agenda that we are fighting. We also fight the electric oligopolie, and when it's cold, we put on the heating, the things of our life. [[Applause]] So we are not going to give up giving the debate on what role Galicia has to play in this context. And we could deepen on this issue, but I believe that we were all confined and we saw the spectacle of the debate of the crowns, which could serve as an example, or we saw — I mentioned in my previous speech — as the ultra-rightness of Hungary — a country that pursues, for example, issues such as homosexuality or migration — are now also conditioning this debate, at the same time participating in that model of the European Union. Of course, even I, who am atheist, say that at this point the Pope is questioning the failure of neoliberalism. [[Applause]] Maybe we're closer to winning this dialectic battle. In any case, by going to the central part of this debate — although there are issues in which we disagree, such as this conformist reading of what is the management by the Galician Board of European Funds — I briefly mentioned the question of the RDP. Let me give an example: measure 8 on the issue as important as the forest fires — where we have so much debate in the past — is something that has about half the execution of what should be done. But, in any case, this will remain for other debates. I wanted to make a brief mention of the issues on the table by the socialist spokesman. He said it was a great news for Galicia that we had these funds theoretically on the table. We'll see. We'll see if we're able as a country to have part of that fund for our needs. Of course, we do not agree that these funds are not to be shared by plots; I suppose it does not consist of that if you are not Euskadi, you do not have a parliamentary group that governs politics in the state right now or if you have no other opportunities. But, of course, what we're looking at is that there was one who did the duties and there was one who didn't, because Gallisa's board kicked a little bit but it's not enough, because there's no roadmap on the table, or that seems to understand. And, of course, we disagree with that concept which seems to unite the People's Party and the Socialist Party of Co-governance. Because, of course, here when you talk about co-governance you're talking about what tomorrow Pedro Sánchez says what the guidelines are and then, if so, we manage a little. That's not the co-governance we aspire to. We aspire to this country's right to decide what we belong to and what we want to use it for, not what we decide to do, and then we have to do it. [[Applause]] And, of course, you did a portrait of Feijóo defending this question which, if it was credible, I think an autograph would ask him tomorrow, but unfortunately, what we saw best was an apathetic president in this debate. Fifteen days ago I had that opportunity that gave our national spokesperson to sit down and reach an agreement and even didn't deserve to enter into that debate. And it's not the first time the Galician Nationalist Block puts this issue on the table. I think I remember that it was also done in the investment debate, in the first big debate that we had in this beginning of legislation, a month and a month ago. It would be different if we had a country proposal to tell the President of the Government tomorrow or to take that appointment on October 26, we didn't have it, it would be very different. This is Mr. Puy Fraga of bilaterality. I, for his amendment, thought I almost convinced him, because he says that in that commission we reached an agreement to transfer to the state. Of course, we continue to think that while others give us the example that they are able to get negotiations for their country, since Mr. Feijóo imitates so much Mr. Urkullu, because he could get caught a little more in that too. But, well, I wanted to focus on the fundamental issue, because, even if the two voices didn't focus too much on it, there's a pink elephant in these two amendments that basically say: let's take this debate to the Committee on Economic Reactivation. And, of course, our desire to talk about vagueness also about the issues of European funds in that committee is all, but let's not cheat on the lonely: there is something urgent, which is to have a position on the criteria and the minimum issues to demand. Tomorrow's agenda for the debate — before we vote on this GNP — will already be marked by the state guidelines. On the 26th, in just 20 days, there will be a Conference of Presidents. Of course, it won't be for the effort that the Galician Nationalist Block will put on that commission to speed up the deadlines, to be able to have a work plan as soon as possible. But we don't think it's realistic, that we don't have to go to the sub-refugees that the regulation says this or says that. If we need to, we even remove this LNP, but let's sit down and talk and agree on a proposal. We have examples of other occasions in which we have done so; for example, in this non-permanent Commission on Equality, of the past legislation, to transfer questions to the Senate on the pact of male violence, and we have other examples on other occasions as well.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u200	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u201	Here is what we are talking about — and I end with this question, Mr President — is whether we are taking advantage of the last few days to give this debate as a country or whether we are waiting for them to decide for us. We really believe that the way is not to postpone this debate to the Reactivation Committee for it to die there, for it to slow down and for it not to take place. We believe that in this House there is the ability to do something else, we have one day ahead...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u202	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u203	...and we can get to some kind of transaction. But, of course, as the amendments are drafted, it seems to us that it is a runaway forward to prevent some from giving the debate about what the Galician Union is not doing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u204	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u205	...and that others do not debate what the state is doing and harm this country. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[One person from the House services comes to disinfect the stage.]] We moved on to the next non-law proposal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. At the initiative of Mr José Alberto Pazos Couñago and seven other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Galicia to the Central Government and the European Commission in relation to the impact on the Galician fishing fleet of the decision to insert the dientoxo in Appendix II to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, CITES
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u206	No amendments were tabled to this non-law proposal, and in order to formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Egerique Mosquera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u207	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. "The long-term throws a SOS for the inaction of fishing with the brownish and the price drop." "The long surface in red alert when you can't sell. He considers that the Ministry of Ecological Transition is not competent for fisheries management." "With the shark at 0,30 and without selling brown, the swords sink." "Frote and long-term industry are almost three thousand jobs in the worst crisis in the sector." "The Burella OPP alerts the fall of income in the blizzard and the shark." You see, ladies and gentlemen, a call for help, a serious warning, a crisis generated only by a decision of a ministry, of the Miteco, of the famous Ministry of Ecological Transition, which every time you make a decision it gives a bataczo directly to Galicia and gives it a battalion directly to the fishing sector. So we know that brown is 10% of the long-term fleet's annual catches, almost 3,000 tons a year — translated into volume and economic invoicing — are 10 million euros a year. Therefore, it is an absolute battalion to the long-lived fleet and to the swords of Galicia. The galley fleet of long-range surface is 135 ships and about 941 crew members in Galicia. So you've already seen, I've started with press headlines, which are news coming directly out of the sector. The Ministry of Fisheries, in this case, leaves fishing. The Ministry of Ecological Transition, Mrs. Teresa Ribera, arrives and orders to stop, and requests a CITES certificate, a certificate from the General Trade Secretariat, which does not appear. So they accumulate and store tons of marrakesh without being able to market. Do you think this is serious? Because the Ministry of Fisheries in this case is profiled, and the Socialist Government, the Minister of Ecological Transition and the Trade Secretariat here do not respond. And while, we have a long-term fleet maiming absolutely, a fishing sector in Galicia totally affected by bureaucratic procedures and decisions between three ministries that are unable to agree. Look, what happened, what happened, why are we at this point? The inclusion last August of the Marrakesh in Appendix II of CITES, of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, has caused the shipments of this school, as I said earlier, to remain stored since last November, retained, because that certificate of Trade does not arrive. The situation worsened, in January, in the port of Legions. Companions of the Portuguese long-range fleet arrive with cargo and can market it. The Galician fleet arrives with the marrakesh and cannot sell it, it has to be stored. So this is a wait for a certificate — never enough — that has to be issued by the Trade State Secretariat, and that does not exist, that does not exist, and there is no answer. So it's an absolute uncertainty on the part of the sector, because they might be waiting for something but they don't know what they're waiting for, because no one here makes a decision. This administrative blockade, this democratic blockade, as I say, directly affects the long-term area of the area of Galicia, because although the capture is not, as you know, carried out on the Greek coast, most of the vessels with catches of this species have their base in Greek ports. Recently, the main fishing organizations, which are Burela, Vigo, Marín and La Garda, have launched a call for aid to the Central Government, as they have already seen and have already been able — immagine — to read in the press in recent days, because of the problems that have been taking place for a year now in order to market this misdemeanour, as a result of the inclusion of this species in Appendix II. [[Lugo]] From Galicia what's done? Because from Galicia he doesn't stay for anything quiet on this subject. The Galician Union, the sea councillor himself, the president of the Union himself, tried to intervene so that this could be resolved. And today this initiative, this non-law proposition, has to be an impetus from all the political groups in Galicia so that in Madrid, in the Government of Spain, if they make decisions and you can get out of that ravine, that sale, and don't let the long-lived fleet fade. Therefore, among the measures taken at the beginning of February 2020, as a continuation of other management already carried out in December 2019, the Sea Councillor asked Segepesca to speed up the issuance of CITES certificates. There was no answer. In July the advisor returned the request for the issue of this certificate. There was no answer. In September, the President of the Board sent a letter to Vice President Fourth and Minister of Ecological Transition, and there was no answer. We are in a limited position — I insist —. I think, in addition, the force we have to make from Galicia to get part of the sector has to be crucial, and we have to leave ourselves here with partisan issues. Because — I insist — these are bureaucratic issues and decisions of a ministry, very political and very ideological decisions. And it's not going to be that let's get carried away by eco-xism, let's load ourselves up a sector as important for Galicia as fishing. Because the line is very thin but they can live together. We have to defend here the sustainability of fishing and how we fish and how we do things in Galicia, respecting the environment, because it is the means that gives us after eating through fishing. Above all, the long-range fleet has high dependence on other species, such as sharks, which accounts for 75% of their catches and 60% of their revenues. And now prices have also fallen brutally. 0.3% per kilo in August made this long-lived fleet very scarce and very small, much below forecast. So 3,000 jobs are at risk. We can talk like this, maybe you don't understand the minister of Ecological Transition what this sector means for Galicia. Perhaps you're always looking at other autonomous communities and you're never hanging in Galicia, because, I insist, every time you make a decision, it's a bakery to the Welsh industrial sector, to the Galician fishing sector. We have, above all, the coward-19, which also affected. And the Ministry did not take any measures to help. What did the Galician Union, the main defender, both the Galician Union and the sea councillor — host in Europe and, in addition, the defender of Galician fishing and, I dare say, here, that of fishing in Spain, because it is the visible face that always defends the fishing sector and the way we have to fish—? What did he do about the coward-19, which also had a strong impact on the long-term? He put three measures in place. The first was to transfer to the Spanish embassies in third countries their concern about the difficulties of the fleet so that they would contribute to maintaining their operationality in crew mobility, in gears. All that movement with the coward was very complicated, and he had to intercede because the Ministry didn't do anything. You are analysing the possibilities of jointing aid measures for a fleet that could not benefit from the central government's aid, because, by remaining active most of its captures, it could not be accommodated to such aid by storage. I mean, they cause the problem and they're also the reason they can't get the help either. And it made available to sea product processing schemes to contribute to the improvement of the capacity of refrigeration storage for catches in this sector, which threatened to collapse. I insist, the long-lived fleet takes so long, by decisions of this Ministry of Ecological Transition — or of "ecological intransaction" — that I no longer know how to call it as a fishing spokesman and as a Welshman, and knowing in addition how important this sector is in Galicia — because it has also suffered damage to the regulation of the ban on winding coming from Europe. But here, from Madrid, from the Ministry of Fisheries, from the Ministry of Ecological Transition, no one defended that long-range fleets did not practice finining, as it was thought, unlike other ships and other fleets from other Asian countries. Therefore, it is an aggravating, it is a threat, it is a contempt — I insist — to this sector. And we, who talk about Europe and we have just talked about a possibility of welcoming ourselves to certain funds, looking at the extremes and looking at ecology, as I say, in Europe and going through everything! Because little by little with these kinds of decisions are loading fishing in Galicia. So we insist. I think it is important for all groups to support this initiative today, because this initiative is a force in Galicia, it is the defense of a sector, a sector, aside from politics, which we know is very important for many families, for many regions. And it is also a form of support that we have to defend — I insist — in Madrid and in Europe. I hope that you will take account of the demands of the sector, that we support absolutely from the People's Parliamentary Group and from the Council of Galicia. But these are not demands from the People's Parliamentary Group, these are demands from a sector and are of crucial importance to — I insist — about three thousand jobs, 135 long-range ships and over nine hundred — about a thousand — long-range crew members. So I hope you take this initiative into account and leave here with the unanimity of all groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u208	Thank you very much, Mrs. Egerique. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor to Mrs Otero Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u209	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. The truth is that, Mrs Egerique, we are not surprised that the People's Parliamentary Group takes initiatives and, when one of its Members or Members is to defend this initiative, it targets other issues by creating confrontation and debate. Because also saying that since the Ministry of Fisheries itself has not defended the issue of ending is to fail to reality, because we know that our ships do not practice it, they do not do this practice. So don't lie. The Socialist Parliamentary Group, which also understands the demands and shares the demands of the sector, as well as the General Fisheries Secretariat itself, of the Ministry of Fisheries, will support today's People's Parliamentary Group initiative. But the truth is, when you defend this initiative, you're mixing themes. Because, on the one hand, in its resolution, what they are asking for, and in what we agree with, are those protective measures for the dientox but they do not entail economic prejudices to the sector. But, on the other hand, it puts on issues of marketing problems. The subject has nothing to do with what you ask for in your resolution. But also by focusing on the initiative that we are bringing to this plenary today, we believe that there must be a balance between measures to protect the mist and that these — we agree with you — do not negatively influence the long-term fleet of our country, which is so important in our economic sector. And we want to do a series of punctuations. The International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tuna, which is the regional fisheries organisation responsible for the management and conservation of tuna and species related to the Atlantic Ocean, has established a necessary conservation standard for the case of brownfish; the conservation standard which is met scrupulously by the entire fleet of the European Union, by the Spanish fleet and, of course, by the Greek fleet in particular. The ICCAT rule is based on the scientific studies of your committee — that this one does not have to be the absolute Bible. I point out that it was not said here, but that I think it is important to say, that there is no fishing directed from the dientus cove, but it is an accidental fishing which occurs in certain fisheries, such as that of the swordfish. It's not therefore a TAC object fishing, it's not, therefore, a quota object fishing. And, therefore, we can't talk about overpassing. It is, as I said earlier, a problem of marketing the maracco, of what Mrs. Egerich was talking about at the beginning of her exhibition. But it must be implied that all the brownish specimens that in the course of some of these fisheries come alive to our ships are returned to the sea as set out in ICCAT's rule. And those specimens that come dead and arrive at ships can be kept on board. This system is fully consistent with the philosophy that sets out the rules for discards set by the European Union. Of course, with the measures established by ICCAT, a reduction of 51% was achieved between 2017 and 2019 of accidental catches of dienhusband that come dead to the ships. It's worth remembering and again inciting that our long-range surface fleet scrupulously meets the ICCAT conservation standard, our fleet carries out a sustainable and environmentally friendly fishing. In fact, the fishing sector itself avoids fishing in areas of concentration of the dientox and meets the obligation also introduced by ICCAT regarding the boarding of observers who note all incidents related to the dientox. The General Secretariat of Fisheries considers that, through adequate management and responsible management of fisheries by the ORPs and the Government's fisheries authorities, it is possible to achieve recovery of species without the need to stop fishing — the consequences of economic and socio-economic prejudices that this entails. And so it has been demonstrated over the last few years in emblematic fisheries, as is the case, for example, with red tuna. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we agree with the initiative they bring here today. It's an initiative, of course, of the sector itself, of the long-term sector of our autonomous community and also of the rest of Spain. We understand that through that responsible management that is already being done by our fisheries it would not be necessary to take any measures as far as it may entail a serious economic prejudice to our sector; because, in addition, as I said earlier, it has been demonstrated with other iconic fisheries. So we're going to support today's People's Party proposal. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u210	Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Pérez Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u211	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good night now. I would like to begin by clarifying — if there are people here who do not know it — that the long-term fleet of Greece, which we are talking about following the initiative just presented by the People's Party, is a fleet that meets the European regulatory framework, the state regulatory framework and the regulatory framework of regional fisheries organisations. I mean, they're not pirates. We're talking about a fleet with fishing licenses, which is subject to strict controls and which also works with the scientific community, within the observer program on board, no less than since the 1980s. And all of this is data that endorses that own fleet. I think it's fair to make it clear because not all countries can be proud of it, not all countries, or the fleets of these countries, act just like the German fleet. [[Applause]] We have reports on the almost prohibition of the practice of hake fishing for all tastes, from those who propose the total ban to those who do not agree with the inclusion of cod in CITES Annex II, which was made in the middle of last year; for example, on this line, the report of the FAO expert group or the report of one of the world's largest experts in migratory species, which we have in the IEO of the Crown, Mr. Jaime Mejuto. Well, reports, as I say, there are, indeed, for all tastes. But what makes the point is that all that is required by the Galician fleet does not have to meet the ships — the superships, we would say in many cases — other countries that were key precisely so that the different shark species would be included in the limitations imposed by CITES. And as long as all the fulfilments and requirements are required to the Greek fleet, they also become more and more obstructive, while the non-fulfilling fleets continue to camp at their widths. We should ask ourselves here, as in many other matters — we have just talked about European funds — where the European Union is and its fisheries policy, which is unable to put it, no longer obstacles, but even difficulties with the extra-Community super-frogs that literally deplete everything, over-fishing and over-exploiting resources. [[Applause]] Well, the inclusion of maraccia in Annex II to CITES imposes even more controls on its trade. As soon as the inclusion was approved in the middle of last year, of 2019, the sector went to the State Administration to find out what consequences that catalog would bring. And it was the state administration itself, by that time, which he said and which he assured that it was simply about issuing a certificate, that they could stay calm. And so quiet, we see. So that simple certificate and all the political and ideological positioning behind that certificate is what brings us here today, a simple certificate that is costing the Greek fleet of longline surface. As has already been said, it has no official TAC, no TAC tax, no quota tax. What you have is certain limitations and certain obstacles, precisely, of commercial transactions, neither TACs nor quotas. However, only 350 tonnes are allowed to be marketed. That is to say, the Ministry of Ecological Transition — because, as the honourable Member of the PSOE spoke about the Ministry of Long and Wide Fisheries, we are now talking about a little bit of the Ministry of Ecological Transition — despite having neither TACs nor quotas, that ministry imposed a coupon of 350 tons at 940 tons of brown that allows the Ministry of Fisheries to be captured. By the way, the Ministry of Fisheries allows them to be caught, allows them to fish, following precisely the requirements of ICCAT. In other words, the Ministry of Fisheries allows fishing for 940 tonnes and the Ministry of Ecological Transition allows marketing for 350 of these 940 tonnes. Of course, not even the Valle-Inclán itself would be able to create such a clever, such absurd thing. [[Applause]] In this way, the long fleet of the Guard, of the Sea, of Vigo and Burela have retained, not to say kidnapped, hundreds of tons of shellfish in the freezers and in the cellars of the ships themselves; hundreds of tons of shellfish that were lawfully fished but which is now not allowed to be marketed. And then the theme right now is, what do we do with them, with those hundreds of tons that are piled up there, which are stored there? Well, not only are they generating profits right now, but they're generating important expenses for their storage. The BNG has already addressed the state government and has also presented in this House initiatives that shift the outrage and despair of sailors, shipowners and traders. We hope that today the Government of the State will abide by the agreement — as I see it unanimously — of this Parliament, since the long-termers do not receive them or receive them. Let us move forward, I think it is clear, that our position and our vote will be in favour of the initiative. But I do not want to finish, Madam People's Party, without telling your party that it is late, that it is late, that it is recalled that the Union urges the European Commission to take measures that combine the protection of the marracjo with the maintenance of the long-haul fleet. And I say they remember late because it was the European Union itself — precisely against the experts from FAO — it was the European Union itself, not the ecologists, ladies and gentlemen, and against the reports from FAO and the CITES Secretariat itself, who not only supported but also sponsored the proposal for inclusion in Annex II. It was the European Union that failed to take into account and obvious the balance criterion that must exist between a sustainable fishing vessel and the economic aspects of its fishing. I am sure, ladies and gentlemen — especially ladies and gentlemen from the People's Party — that it would be an interesting exercise, although not certainly very edifying, to know which groups have promoted the decision of the European Union itself within the European Union. And, of course, honourable Member of the People's Party, of those places, these muds. What we now expect from the Galician Union is that, in addition to urging, warning, moving, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, put in place those measures that you have already announced, that it articulates the mechanisms that are necessary at this time to save the long-hall fleet from the situation in which it is, which is — and never said better — with water to the neck. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u212	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pérez. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Egerique Mosquera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u213	Well, I am very glad — not only myself personally, but also the parliamentary group, but surely the long-term sector — of the unanimous support. Mrs. Pérez, you clearly said that the long-term sector, the long-range fleet of Galicia's surface, complied with everything, that did not violate any law, did nothing wrong. I mean, Mrs. Otero told me that I was talking about trade by mixing themes. It's just that who really put the long-term in this problem... the Ministry of Fisheries tells him "whatever you want", but the Ministry of Ecological Transition and the Trade Secretariat itself, which is the one who has to issue that certificate, does not issue the certificate and prevents him from selling all of that fishing. So who's messed up the long-lived fleet, who's got that maraccia stored without it being marketed, are the three ministries of the Spanish Government, who disagree. But they don't agree, they look elsewhere, they don't get the long-term sector, they don't answer. The Minister of Fisheries says, "Yes, yes, fish, fish." They reach the port and cannot market the product. So don't tell me here that I'm mixing issues, when you get here talking about red tuna and talking about discards, you talk about so many other subjects, to cover your time, because it doesn't give me a solution. It will support this initiative. We are very happy at this time that you support this initiative. But we want solutions, we want you to react to the Minister of Fisheries, if you have something to say, and the Minister of Ecological Transition, who seems to be the one who makes all the decisions of the Sánchez government. Looks like it's the ones who have to react. We are very pleased with this initiative and, of course, those three measures of the Galician Union and all the measures proposed by the Covid-19, which are favourable for this sector. And among all the measures he took, as I said earlier, since the end of last year, because of the inclusion of this species in Annex II, he warned that national coupons were not suitable for this fleet. Therefore, it did not remain impassable either to the Council of Galicia, but, when it was the establishment of national marrakesh quotas by the end of 2019, Galicia warned of the prejudices of making those decisions. Therefore, if you are working, and — I insist — Galicia, the Galician Union and the Fisheries Adviser — who defends the interests of Galicia and the fishing sector, not those of the People's Party, is the ambassador and the one who has to be in Europe fighting and defending the fishing fleet. I insist that this situation of disappearance — which is moreover nothing more than an absolute disunity and disarray of ministries of the Government of Spain, and a total ignorance, in addition, of the reality of Galician fishing — must also be resolved by the three ministries. It's to make a decision, and to get that trumpy out. And besides, what I was saying wasn't that the ecologists had made a decision, I said wrong. What I was saying is that I look at that excessive ecology!, that sometimes what he does is to carry Galician fishing. So we have to take all that into account, we have to go with the measures also knowing how to fish in Galicia, explaining the sustainable way, how important it is. Besides, marrax is in this case also a good of necessity, a food; that is to say, marketing it is also interesting, it is important. You don't come here as sometimes, when you start telling me that if you fish money, if it's economic value... it's economic value for families, for fleets. So I insist that this is all cross-sectional, but here we are to which the Government of Spain, the Government of Sánchez, three ministries — each to see who commands the most and who issues more orders to harm the fleet — if they agree and leave this. Because this is more than bureaucratic procedures, I think there's deep ideology here in the Ministry of Ecological Transition. But here the Ministry of Fisheries paints nothing and does not defend the long-term sector. So what we are asking for from here on this initiative is that we defend the long-term sector, that the strength we have in this Parliament all political groups will work out and that we can get rid of this fleet and we can also offer you certainties and futures, because now it's at a time of uncertainty and also expenses that you can't cope with because you don't have any room to store any more bitter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-06-DSPG007.u214	Thank you very much, Mrs. Egerique. We'll hold the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning. Thank you very much and good night to all.
