ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u1	Good morning. The sitting is opened, the agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, so we do not proceed to its reading. He justified the inattentiveness and delegated his vote, Mrs. Rosa María Quintana Carballo, who did so in Mr. Pedro Puy. Election of candidate or candidate for the coverage of a vacancy of a member of the Galician Board of Auditors Election of candidates for the coverage of three vacancies of elected members of the Galicia Advisory Council
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u2	We go into the agenda with the election points. We'll do it together. In this case the election to cover a vacancy of the Galician Board of Auditors and also the election of candidates to cover three vacancies of the Galician Advisory Council. For the election of a member of the Council of Auditors and of three members of the Consultative Council of Galicia, the deadlines for the submission of proposals for candidates or candidates admitted to the procedure were completed, and the perceptual appearances in Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Internal, at the meeting of 11 December, the Bureau and the Speakers' Board agreed to the inclusion in the agenda of the plenary for their election. The election, in accordance with Article 91 1.2 and (2) of the Galician Parliament Regulation, shall be secreted, by means of papers and by alphabetical order of the surname. In both cases candidates will be elected if they get a majority of three fifths, i.e. 45 votes in first ballot, and, if so, an absolute majority in second ballot for the alleged election of the members of the Consultative Council of Galicia. The white papers are for the candidate of the Board of Auditors, and green for those of the Galician Advisory Council. These include the names of the proposed candidates and the proposed parliamentary group. The vote shall be taken as follows: the votes in favour shall be taken by inserting into the ballot boxes previously delivered by the services of the House in which the name of the candidate proposed for the Council of Auditors and three names proposed for the Consultative Council of Galicia -- marking the corresponding box and boxes with a stamp -- ; blank votes shall be when no name is indicated; null votes shall be made in papers other than those approved by the Bureau, or in which the name or names of other persons are entered, or which contain scraps or signals other than those used to grant the vote to the candidates proposed. So let's start. I suppose you already have the white paper for the Board of Auditors -- not yet, they're sharing -- and the green paper for the Advisory Council. When this process is over, the secretary, Mrs. Corina Porro, will make the call in alphabetical order. I pray to the vice president first and to the vice-secretary lady that the ballot boxes are on. [[The House's services continue to distribute the ballots.]] I remind you that, even if you put the name -- I think I said it -- you have to mark it with a dash.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u3	Have they all voted yet?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u4	The result of the vote for the Board of Auditors is as follows: the votes cast are 73; votes in favour of Mr Simón Rego Vilar, 73. Thus, having reached most of the three fifths with a glance, it is elected as a member of the Board of Auditors by Simon Rego Vilar. And for the Advisory Council, the votes cast are 73. The votes in favour of Don José Luís Costa Pillado are 73; votes in favour of Don Ignacio de Loyola Aranguren Pérez, 73; and votes in favour of Don Alberto Souto Souto, 73. As a result, the majority of the three fifths are also elected to the Consultative Council of Galicia by Don José Luís Costa Pillado, Mr Ignacio by Loyola Aranguren Pérez and Mr Alberto Souto Souto.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u5	The votes will therefore end here. Congratulations to the chosen. And we're still on the agenda. In this case, already with the legislative texts. Debates and votes by Ditame, drawn up by Commission 2nd, Territorial Planning, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the draft Continental Fisheries Act of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u6	Amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and to the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group are maintained. For the presentation of the award, the President of Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, Ms Carmen Pomar Tojo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u7	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, gentlemen. The Galician Continental Fisheries Act was entered into the Parliamentary Register on 24 September 2020 and its admission to the procedure was carried out by the Parliamentary Bureau at its meeting on 29 September, opening the deadline for the submission of amendments, which ended on 19 October and 2 November 2020 for amendments to the whole and the joint. In particular, the amendments to the full refund submitted by the parliamentary groups of the Galician Nationalist Bloc and the Galician Socialists were rejected at the plenary meeting on 10 November 2020. And the amendments to the articulate presented and admitted to the procedure were a total of 106 -- 89 of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and 17 of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia --. Commission 2nd, Territorial Planning, Public Works, Environment and Services, at its meeting on 13 November, designated the presentation to prepare the report which was formed on that date. And at the following four meetings, the rapporteur and the keynote speakers -- Ms Marisol Díaz Mouteira, by the Galician People's Parliamentary Group; Mr Xosé Luís Rivas Cruz, by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group; and Mr Pablo Arangüena Fernández, by the Galician Socialist Group -- prepared the report with the final recommendations, which were issued on 25 November. Subsequently, Commission 2nd, Territorial Planning, Public Works, Environment and Services, at its meeting on 11 November, approved the dictation I am presenting. It is therefore necessary to complete the processing of this legislative procedure today with the approval, if any, of the Galician Continental Fisheries Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Pomar. We begin with the turn of the parliamentary groups to set their position on the dictatorship and defend the amendments maintained, if so. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Aranguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u9	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. I'm sorry that the rapporteur of this law for the PP, Mrs. Marisol Díaz Mouteira, can't be here today for family reasons. Let me tell you that the presentation of this fishing law was to me a humanly much more edifying experience than listening to the usual cheap and clumsy demagogy exercises in the Vox section of Galician PP. And in that sense, I have to value the fluidity with which Mrs. Díaz Mouteira has allowed the work to be developed. Besides it has also allowed us to check the coincidences in this matter with the BNG, represented by Mr. Xosé Luís Rivas, who shares the view of fishing as a defense of the river environment, the difference of the environmental advisor; or, as you can tell, of the administrative-fluvial bureaucracy of the Galician Union; or of the destruction of Galician PP by the environment and by the fish richness they once had and no longer have the rivers of this country -- that Cunqueriro said they were a thousand --. The rivers of Galicia are much more than a thousand, because each small valley has its little watercourse. It's a wealth in terms of comparison with other places in the world, in addition to the extent of our river network, by its primitive variety, which has dramatically rubbed out over the last forty years, an authentic wealth -- as I say -- to which Galicia lives on her back, not knowing it and radically led by an autonomous government that despises how much she ignores. And recognizing the good manners and manners of Mrs. Díaz Mouteira, I also thank you for incorporating some of the approximately 90 amendments that the Socialist Group has tabled. But I'm sorry it was just the least transcendental. Because, for example, to change the object of the law came to a compromise between the three political forces that was quite difficult to achieve, which gives an idea of the poor flexibility of the PP, because it cost a lot even to introduce the environmental issue into the object of a law that in 1992 had it. And that sums up everything. The law of 1992 put forward progress. This is a reversal despite the twenty-eight years in which the world has become much more concerned and concerned about the environment. But the PP goes backwards, even with regard to that law of 1992, which was made when environmental law was in leather. And you started by eliminating the environmental content of that law's object to replace it with a ethereal and legally inadequate "right to the exercise of continental fishing." It remains very modern and falsely progressive to call it "right" to which all life has been, in technical and legal terms, a special common use of a public good like the rivers. But if there's no river ecosystem, there's no fishing. And if there's no fishing, there's no right to fishing, no catfish rags, because there's no trout, no rites, no salmon. That is why I must reiterate that it is unheard of that a law made in the year 2020, which, in theory, aims to protect and encourage the continental fishing of our community, in practice implies a genuine retreat in that protection and promotion, as a law made significantly worse in 1992. It's also unnecessary, because there's no real need for a new fishing law, except for the fact that the Environment Department shows very little normative fertility. I mean, since the Environment Department has been without significant legislative activity for some time, a law had to be made. And this was the case, an unfortunate and unfortunate occurrence, an unnecessary legal occurrence that lacks justification, since in the explanatory statement the long vigil of the 1992 law is used as the main argument, when the problem is not the long vigil of that norm, but the problem is the very mismanagement of the resources carried out by the Galician Union, the constant omission of its competences and obligations, namely, to sanction and prevent the aggressions of rivers and the constant environmental deterioration of river ecosystems, which has resulted in a situation of abandonment of river fishing by many of its practitioners. Almost half the number of fishing licenses fell in the last decade: from about 90,000 to about 45,000; nothing to do with the generational relief, as I disagreed with the explanatory statement, and anything to do with the impossibility of fishing half a dozen trouts where eleven years ago it was possible to do it. I myself inherited the passion for my father's river fishing and for 20 years I practiced that condition while I was seeing how river ecosystems and fishing were less than in Galicia, to a point where a fisherman like me ceases to draw the license, ceases to go to the river, because there are not enough trout to practice fishing. It's not overfishing, it's because we fishermen are getting less and less. As I said earlier in this plenary, there's no fishing because a river is an ecosystem, and from that ecosystem, salmonites whose fishing has been part of our ancestral culture for centuries. And not only our own but also others, because trout and salmon fishing is a condition shared by tens of millions of people in the world. And Galicia has one of Spain's largest catch concentrations, and Spain is the first country in the European Union in number of prisoners and the fifth in the world. The country of the thousand rivers of Cunqueiro has become the country of the hundreds of dams, and each dam is an obstacle to the upstream of the salmonids, which tend to climb up the rivers to find their mills in the high courses of the rivers or in the beds of the rivers. If we cut them back and down by interposing the wall of a hydropower dam that can't clear, they beat their populations -- not to mention that they can't come down once they defuse --. And they die if the river becomes dry for failure to comply with the ecological flow, as repeatedly allows the Union of Galicia. And what affects trout is even more affected by salmon and sharks, which are migratory species. And you not only allowed and sheltered all kinds of non-compliances from the dealers, but they favor those same companies in any way possible. Then there's the problem of pollution, which, instead of going a little less, goes further; among other things, because you don't sanction much or little, you don't sanction except witness to be able to say that you sanction. And there is also the problem of the deterioration of river banks and erosion and the deterioration of river forests, which, in addition to forming part of the river ecosystem, when it rains, are those that capture part of that rain -- about 70% -- that return to the atmosphere by evapotransspiration, while the remaining 30% goes to the river and then to the sea. But when the forests of the river are damaged or burned, evapotranspiration is reduced and then there are more and more intense and harmful floods, such as those we see too often in Galicia. So the problem with river fishing is that river ecosystems are increasingly degraded, and without ecosystems there is no food or habitat for fishable species. The problem with this law is that it's going to go to history because it's incredibly a less environmentalist law than the one Fraga made. This law makes it disappear as a serious infringement of the breach of the ecological flow that was in the past, or the failure to comply with the obligation to install and maintain in good condition lift devices. It provides only requirements for new hydraulic concessions and authorisations without facing the failure to comply with the numerous previous concessions and authorisations which constantly omit obligations established to sustain ecosystems, such as the installation of dams and protective devices to prevent access of icticicle population to drift currents or near currents, or the already mentioned installation of upstream devices or other alternatives to ensure periodic migration of fish along river courses or maintain minimal flow flows, ecological flows. These are matters that remain without being properly incorporated into the text after the legislative process in commission, which indicates that in this field the Government of Greece is moving incredibly towards a much more lax regulation with all that it can provoke, and does not introduce remarkable news for the control of hazardous landfills and wastes that affect aquatic fauna and water. It also greatly reduces the sanctioning regime as it lowers the amount of sanctions for offenders, thereby reducing the coercive power of the norm. In general, infringements are reduced by less than half, when twenty-eight years have passed and the simple effect of inflation accumulated in twenty-eight years should cause it to multiply. The inflation accumulated since 1992 is 88 %. That is, a penalty of 100 euros, or the corresponding pesetas of then, in 1992, if we updated it, would today be equivalent to a penalty of 188 euros -- 100 euros in 1992, 188 euros in this year --. This means that sanctions would almost have to be doubled by the simple effect of inflation, and yet you reduce them generally to half. For example, the very serious infringement penalty, which could reach 50 million in the law of 1992, is now up to EUR 150,000 -- half -- and so on. It's half that in 1992, and so -- I insist -- successively. A discharge which is considered to be a very serious infringement, for example, leaves today at half the price that in 1992. If we count inflation, it comes out even for the fourth part of the price. We're going back, like crabs -- by the way, not like autochthonous river crabs, which are practically extinct -- and we're moving from the principle of "who pollutes pay" to the principle of "who pollutes pays much less than what he paid before this law." No clear measures are also laid down for the conservation of beds which guarantee the maintenance of their natural conditions. And another fundamental aspect that does not foresee the bill is the problem that is generating the limited number of troops for inspection and surveillance work, which are almost null in the summer's time, because most of the troops are destined for fire prevention and extinction work. Therefore, this law does not establish any novelty relating to this important circumstance, even if it is satisfied that there will be no financial increase in these matters from the moment when the law can enter into force. Nor can we accept as a valid justification the need for this rule to encourage the generational renewal of the group of river fishermen and the promotion of the activity of continental fishing as a tool for tourism development in rural areas, since there has been the possibility of acting through other non-lawless standards that have not been developed to achieve these goals and that are now trying to present as important novelties of this law. For years, acts such as the authorizations of new floating equipment, new fishing gears, river schools or non-licension for minors have been put in place, and the exemption from the rate for those over 65. And no protective measures are established in the coastal forests. So that if this law does not conceive rivers as ecosystems but as places for the exercise of fiction, impossible or almost impossible, right to fishing without anything to fish! Riverwood is fundamental and not treated in this law. In short, the 1992 fishing law was a necessary law, which called for progress in regulating river fishing in Galicia, to the extent that it surpassed a franchising law that had been overcome by half a century of changes in river fishing and in the conservation of the environment. This law involved a retreat before passing through this House and continues to involve a retreat today. In any case, Counsellor, with the same fishing law you can do very different things depending on the desire to defend and promote fishing in Galicia. We hope that the Environmental Adviser will have something better to do for our rivers than a campaign photo throwing trout pods into the Anllóns River, a river with enormous potential, which, like all our rivers, the rivers of Galicia, needs conservation measures, not their photos or trout pods. Nothing else and we'll go on afterwards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u10	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Rivas Cruz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u11	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. "A bamboo tip stuffed in the heat of the cooking oven, with a flexible tip, no more than one and a half metre of tank, a leadless hook and a bezel. From outside the river, by the side, placed in the ton in a manner in a remnant, in a grandson of water, on the shore, where it gives the shade, if we gently cement the cane, the bee seems active and the trout comes out like a baby. All a show! Or walk gently through the stream, bamboo cane of about seven meters long and almost as many of the tank, onion hop, ballesta and the hopper fall with their own weight in that waternet on the edge; and see how the trout takes the race and drags the bait to eat it under, let him go and wait... when he feels the handle, leave the cane, take it to the river below and walk through the cane and tank to the trout. In the hot days of August when there's no sheet and trout open to the shadow waiting for him to fall from the shores what goes for him to eat, it's no wonder to feel the intermittent buzz of the devil's horse devouring. It is maintained as a vertical helicopter ascending and descending to deposit in each download and in contact with the water tones of a few sheep. Those eggs will give way to those ugly insects that we call besells who live along with the gousapas and the hoarse or mayoes beneath the stones in the river beds. They're one of the clearest evidences, the most powerful analytics, that the waters of that river are healthy." It's stories, gentlemen, that are passed on from parents to children and that make up the excitement of the people who inhabit the banks of the rivers and, as such, we're called riparians. Fishing and river flow through our veins. And the tales of mills, the newly out of market cattle with the crosses in the grip of the mill before being taken to court by their new owner, the white horse-shaped scavenger... I know! Ladies and gentlemen, the river is something more than a continuous stream of water as I prayed to the Encyclopedia Alvarez that some of us have studied. A country like ours, dried by 10,000 rivers and more, a country with thirty-five thousand kilometers of river, has a river culture that nestles within our identity. That's why we deserve more. Since BNG we have claimed due respect for ourselves and our continental waters, because we have in our hands a bill of river fishing that creates a unanimous agreement in criticism of their many shortcomings. Everyone in fishing, everyone!, everyone in ecology, naturalists, the politics of wisdom, we all agree that it's a draft rule that goes back and that it's worse than any past law. You could have drawn up and presented here a bill that would substantially improve the bill that has still been in force since July 1992, and you could take a break with Law 5/2006, for the protection, conservation and improvement of the rivers of Greece, as a result of a popular initiative. And they could regain common sense with Law 5/2019, of Galicia's natural heritage, which in its article 87 proclaims that the Administration will give priority to river courses in order to improve the ecological coherence and connectivity of the territory. But they didn't want to. For you every law is a world in itself and there is no interdependence or complementarity between them, nor should they serve the same end. This bill, ladies and gentlemen, was cooked by carousel smoke because the PP is in a hurry to justify itself, by justifying what was not done: almost four years of rural legislation and just nothing legislatingly speaking, except the "predation law" and those legislative traps called "accompaniment laws" of the annual budgets, little more. Four empty years in the activity due to a government that prays and now they're in a hurry and force the machine to miss out on it because of the people of the Greeks and the Greeks and doing the legislative work -- which should be innsed and conscientious -- a legal process to all of Philippine and with little consistency. Nor can the rush ever justify improvisation or backwardness, and you improvised and we retreated. This law does not drink from reality, nor does it count on the necessary support to give it consistency. More: this bill has reached the consensus of naturalists, ecologists and fishermen collectives. Yes, but against it. They all agree -- and we from the BNG also agree -- that it's a depurpose and that our rivers, streams, sources, ponds and wetlands don't deserve this absurdity, because it doesn't drink from reality, because part of false premises. We told you in our first debate: our rivers are in a downward curve too inclined to deteriorate the quality of their waters and their ecosystems, because yours is not exactly compliance with the laws and rather the sound of fools. And the previous laws and those that refer to the environment have not been complied with or complied with. There are uncontrolled spills with which, knowingly, they don't act, because it's about friendly companies. It's funny, some of them have European references to their care for the environment, but that they are to be seen under the impunity that gives them their coverage, to look the other way, not to move the ball. Impotence! Plantations of eucalyptuses up to the same edge of the water, even in the public domain space; discharges of purins of the intensive in times of the year in which they were badly sized soar; excess of nutrients of known soils resulting from streams, streams and rivers and eutrophicates the waters; pigs and birds farms in areas such as The Limitia and the Ten do not breathe into the waters and cause levels of unacceptable eutrophication; indiscriminate and fearless use of glyphosates in agriculture and even by institutions such as the Junta or the deputies in the treatment of road cuneties to avoid the hiring of personnel; the debuggers that function poorly and that all of them command to the river, send to the river! Then we drink. That's right, let's give him chlorine, a magic chlorine that neutralizes nitrites, nitrates, glyphosates, heavy metals. We're looking the other way. Is this where BNG is catastrophe? No, here's a BNG committed to reality, with the need to give a way to these serious problems. Because, as you can see, it's not about having more or less trout; with them and more with the eagles, with the sharks, stairs, salmon, ducks, otters, devil's horses, water blankets, fins, thorns, agrón teeth, feites, briquettes, royal lavenders, river martins, fish martins, nitrogens, with all that and with what I lack to remember and name, with their survival is the survival of our health and our species. [[Applause]] Well, if they disappear, we go after them. And you don't want to see it. It can be more like friendly business and cold neoliberalism than people's health and future. Those are you in a pure state. Then you poured them out with words like "bioeconomics", "green pact", "circular economy," or was it circular by the economy? And you, the democrats of all life, gave us the opportunity for a presentation to come to an agreement because they traded and incorporated into the text a good number of amendments. Damn it! In fact, we never agreed at the briefings. He stayed the other day because he had to consult the heights, and the heights said "no." Mostly so, you'll say. And I don't want to miss the truth, because at the last hour, without it being used as a precedent, in the Commission debate they came to us and they accepted an amendment to add in Article 1 and introduced -- even after a very hard debate at the time -- the words "conservation" and "recovery." And with this they already met the deficit of the law, and they also met our stubborn insistence. So much to talk about, so much to argue that the law didn't talk about the conservation of rivers or about the conservation of rivers...! Two words and so much effort! They are words and, what is worse, concepts that are excluded from the text and spirit of this bill. Not now, go, go! And this is the mother of the year, because only since the absolute ignorance of the role and importance of continental waters that enjoy good health can you conceive such barbarity of bill, which ignores the deplorable general state of water and river ecosystems in this country. The role played by these water courses is clear: they are biodiversity corridors, you know? Scientists claim that, after the last glacialization -- as people say, above all -- after the ice removal, there was a monospecific colonization of coniferous throughout northern Europe, and that biodiversity -- including specimen -- has penetrated European territory since it is through rivers. So today they continue to perform the same function. Different life corridors that should not be trapped and interrupted by alloctone and invasive forest masses -- fifteen meters on each side of exemption, which they don't even meet, fifteen meters when they should be at least a hundred --. And I say well "alloctones and invaders," say what the tribunes who are heirs of those of the "top-top", of the Court of Public Order for preterit years, those who were sent to prison to those who dared to express their freedom freely, those who remain there. And so these invasive species squeeze the water and prevent the flora and fauna that belong to them from being able to communicate and preserve what has been given to us -- not to us, yes to the whole territory --. Because the rivers are not just walking water, they're all that life that's been associated with at least that space I repeat to them once again that should be pampered and praised by the account that it has us. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that we need and use more drinking water and that we have the obligation to keep it in perfect condition: different life corridor and brake to the great fires that chaos management and drought periods can offer us periodically. This is also an amnesty law for those river buildings that illegally lured the free movement and development of migratory icticula species. They know well that both salmon and lamprea or anguy have the days counted. They need free movement through the river and they're trapped. And there is nothing in the law about it, no measures, no paragraphs, no articles, no points, no mention. Anguy is today in danger of extinction, and less than fifty years ago it was fished in quintes, in quintes to go out and serve as food in a way of special slaughter in winter. And every year there were clouds of cattle coming up through the rivers and streams up. The other salmon so much, and what about the lamprea! Meanwhile, companies like Fenosa -- I don't know what it's called now -- with its pre-power, it's taken thousands of millions of benefits and didn't comply with the law. He didn't do it because you didn't do it -- either Fenosa or Iberdrola or Villar Mir, soul friend --. Well this law is a blur and new account. The fact is, it's done. Very much in his style, they never want to know anything about the past. When you, lords of the PP, are the past, the most turbulent and rancid past with make-up 5.0. Because our amendments were on their way to correct a risk this barbarity -- which comes from "barbarbaria" -- and to put on some conservation spirit, something of cord that slows the growing deterioration of continental freshwaters. And no, in the presentation we still reasoned, but at the time they said no. And they said no, one by one, to our amendments, to the amendments of the BNG, perhaps because they protrude in the most intimate, because they know what they're going on, of course, yes; and perhaps some are ashamed. BNG's amendments were few, they were amendments to the essence of the law. They were going to try to get them to fall into the sense that a resource cannot be put into operation if it is not in good condition. You can't legislate sport fishing if there's nothing to fish or if this is a scarce asset. For that, they were meant to shield the continental waters to restore quality to their ecosystems of other times. And then I have an advantage -- excuse me -- because I lived those days until not long ago. I'm not talking about ears. I saw and tried to cook mussels from the river, mexillons from the river! They're hard as pennies, they look like plastic. I drank, as we all drank, up to the waters of the streams that ran down the meadows -- and they had pineapples and frogs in abundance --. I drank of the Mine and the Thief. "The current water does not kill people," he prayed, and said remains. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u12	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Candia López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. Letting myself be carried by that poetic veil that I always remind Mr. Rivas Cruz -- that I like to hear it even though I don't like what he says --, I start with a song very peculiar to my Christmas World, which begins like this: "I'm Mondoñedo, from the shore of the Masma..." Masma, as you may know, is an important river in our province. I begin by thanking, of course, the work of the comrades, and very especially of my companion Marisol. And there's no doubt that I have to focus on explaining a law that I believe in and which of course I stand for. But I have already said, on the only occasion that I have had to speak for now in this plenary session, that for those of us who have seen local politics it is very difficult to deliver here a speech which seems to me to have prepared with a communication consultant and without letting themselves be carried away by what is obviously heard with great provocations. Even though we must not lose sight of it. Just one thing, Mr. Rivas Cruz, because, yes, especially the Greeks who supported us on day 12, I think they deserve to start listening. Look, the People's Party in Galicia hasn't happened to you, the People's Party in Galicia is present to you, the most alive present, more eager, more committed to everything, and also to the environment. I don't say it for us, you know it doesn't offend anyone you want, but whoever can. [[Applause]] But we have the great responsibility to defend those who have voted for us in the cleanest and most wonderful democratic scenario that has given us democracy. It's true that when I hear him here, I seem to be moving to a television series, it seems that, with all the humility of the world, he didn't vote for the family -- and I don't mean no one --. Come here to teach lessons, to call us everything, to miss out on it, to align ourselves with practices that are almost crimes, so it costs me to focus on the fishing law, which -- I insist -- is the most important thing. So, in terms of respect, and coming from a family where respect for the environment was not necessary to learn it in an office, nor from the concept of sustainability, you know that the Greek rural care for the environment. They go so hard in criticism of the Government that they are not realizing that they criticize the Greeks and the Greeks when they have the law before them, when they have an instrument that, Counselor, I think is a necessary instrument -- they themselves recognize it in their interventions --. On the one hand they say it doesn't need to, on the other hand they say they've disappeared, which has been getting worse since the last forty years. I also make this point because the voice of the Socialist Party in the committees that I could hear always contextualized a worsening in the last ten. We start counting and interest the ten because that's when the Bipartite stopped ruling. Now they say the situation has been getting worse in the last forty years. In any case, today, and speaking of the future, of that living future that we want to build among all -- and we have an obligation to do so -- returns to this House the project of which will be Galicia's future continental fisheries law, the second in twenty-eight years, since 1992. We defend that an update was necessary to modernise and adapt this practice to a management model that enables us to move forward in sustainability and in compatibility with environmental protection in the medium and long term. We have to give clear answers and follow evolution. It is clear that what took 40 years ago because it was a fishing practice to sometimes help as a source of food today is being a recreational and sporting activity, and it will agree with a greater social awareness about the need to protect our natural resources. So it reflects the project in its main object: regulate, protect, promote the right to exercise fishing in continental waters and an orderly use of fish resources. This instrument is supported by four key pillars: the implementation of measures to ensure generational change; promoting environmental training and education and awareness-raising in this area; promoting fishing without death; also using fishing as a tool for tourism, economic and social development in rural areas; and, of course, the fourth pillar, strategic planning of continental fisheries management in order to optimize resource management. Ladies and gentlemen, the average profile of the Greek fishermen focuses on an age range between 50 and 70, but with a very significant percentage in the stretch ranging from 70 to 80. It is undoubtedly true that our population, especially in some provinces, has a marked old character, but it is no less true also that it is essential to encourage the participation of younger generations in order to ensure the future of this sport practice. And, above all -- let's not forget -- you focus a lot on sanctioning -- which, of course, I will also clarify -- but I also want to focus on that essential task of raising awareness, improving that environmental awareness, especially among the younger ones. They really are the ones who have the obligation to preserve our river ecosystems. It introduces important news, such as the creation of river schools, that tool that will help to form or even -- why not say -- to foster that intergenerational encounter among those who are used to fishing today and those that we want to try to motivate and encourage. In addition, we want to attract young people who make it easier from the administrative point of view. On the one hand, Mr. Aranguena says that there is excessive bureaucracy; and on the other hand, he asks for protection. Let's look for the balance, which is really the objective of this law. Children under the age of 14 may practise sport or recreational fishing without a license when accompanied by an adult. I think it's a novelty of this law to be highlighted. And all minors will be exempt from payment of fees. I think you can also encourage sports practice. By the way, that exemption will also benefit those over 65. Of course, this free fishing permit for older people in any case will be for deathless fishing, one of the fundamental objectives that we want to promote in this law. Several measures are included for the progressive implementation of deathless fishing, which we know is not the common in our community, and that is undoubtedly one of our challenges. In spite of the fact that fishing without death is gaining followers and it is the common rule all over the world, the intention in this case in this law and in our community is that this kind of activity can be promoted by coexisting with the traditional extractive model. We want -- where I would also like to make fincapé -- to leave a special protection for certain traditional fishing activities that are representative of the Greek culture, such as the Ulla River fisheries or the Tea River stakes for catching the lamprea. We know that fishing is closely linked to the population in rural areas and that is why we bet it is an instrument that plays a key role in tourism, economic and social development in these areas. It was precisely the third piar that I mentioned earlier, which was the subject of hesitation in the debates, as they moved me, and we understand that too, because it obviously goes in every political project of each of you. I'm referring to private fishing waters, a figure that will certainly help boost fishing tourism, as you are doing it in other points in other autonomous communities, such as in Castile and León. The private fishing arrangements in this intensive scheme regulated by the law will also serve as elements to encourage fishing for the above-mentioned programmes with children, for the practice of fishing by the larger ones, and we believe that it will facilitate the training of the competitors and competitors in Greece, which will also move the fishing economy in periods of ban. Rural people, no doubt, want to be one of the main beneficiaries. And it ends at the fourth pier, which is nothing other than strategic planning of continental fisheries management in order to optimize resource management. To this end, three instruments are created: the Greek Continental Fisheries Management Plan, the technical fisheries management plans -- whether by shells or subconcaves -- and the annual continental fisheries order. We don't understand it's a turnaround or an aesthetic reform. We really believe that silent proposals are coming up. For example, water masses are classified as fishable and non-fishable, and can be the first free for fishing or subject to a special regime. In particular, this special scheme is regulated in four categories: fishing costs, sections of water of particular interest to fish wealth and more novelties, the already mentioned sports and training scenarios and the fishing waters of private use, those which, as I mentioned, emerged from controversy. What else incorporates the law? For it incorporates a list of species that may be the object of continental fishing, regulates invasive exotic species, adopts specific control and capture measures of the species catalogued, establishing the clear prohibition of these species once captured. There are, by the way, so unique news that there is no such thing as Europe. I am talking, for example, about the establishment of a self-guided system, or identification of catches for the specimens of offences, so that it will be the fisherman himself who communicates to the administrations the data and the catches made, a system that will simplify the controls for the catch of this species, but, above all, to make the fisherman responsible for the management. If there is news in the criminal conduct and sanctions: the classifications of the categories of infringements are simplified, remove the category of less serious and reduce the amount when the offender recognizes his or her responsibility or performs the payment in a voluntary period. It must be noted that special attention is devoted to repairing the damage caused and restoring the situation altered to its previous state, which seems to me to be very defensive aspects of course. We stand out here -- which seems to have been ridiculed -- the result of the commission. I believe that all political groups applauded what was the amendment to article 1 when it was given greater weight -- let's say -- to the concept "conservation", which is already introduced into the article of the law. It seemed to me that this looked like something positive, but I think it's best sometimes to take the opposite because it doesn't come out of the argumentary and we can pipe, and call ourselves four hundred. I believe that the spirit of conservation was implicit and explicit in every law, but with that attitude of reaching agreements and seeking consensus, in which we understand that it is an important law, they accepted that amendment. And I was saying my partner, since Mr. Arunguena repeated several times -- he did it in the Commission and in the first intervention -- that he was no longer a fisherman, that one of the challenges was to get him back out of the fishing licence. It's probably not the law's fault that it isn't, but in any case it's also a challenge of this law. They all quoted a Mindonian writer, as was Álvaro Cunqueiro, who defined Galicia as the one of the thousand rivers. I probably also agree with you that it's short, because I probably have more. But you're looking at this law that this wealth, that identity sign of our Galicia, is more protected. And one of the best ways is to involve, of course, youth. There's no amnesty, no amnesty. I know that sometimes I don't know if they don't understand it or what they're looking for is that we get into that provocation, but since the accusations are very serious, I think my responsibility is also to clarify it. The forecasts that they proposed in the new article are already included in Article 12, which I find to be of important content. But it's just that, in addition, you know perfectly well the reports that the General Legal Counsel pointed out in December 2019. They also know the principle of proportionality in sanctions, they know perfectly well that there are certain facts that were already collected in other normative instruments. I think all of this knows him, because I want to think that they really form themselves, and I want to think that they read texts with constructive attitude -- and I say "I want to think" and I'm meant to make an effort, because really, I insist, today's debate, of course, was kinder than on other occasions --. I believe that thinking of the good of our Galicia, for the good of our rivers, for the good of our nature, from this group I represent, which is the majority of the House, I extend my congratulations to the Environmental Council, and at the same time we commit ourselves to explaining the law, to explaining it to citizenship, which was very participatory throughout this process, and undoubtedly I have reason to define it as a necessary instrument, as a useful tool and that will continue to contribute to the care of our environment and our rivers. In this first intervention, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Candia. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The role of the parliamentary groups in defining the amendments maintained by the other groups. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr Aranguena has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Candia, let me tell you that the PP is committed to the environment. Well, the PP must be as committed to the environment as it is to the recovery and defense of democratic historical memory or to the use of masks in its party acts. [[Murmurs.]] Regarding the question of necessity, about that you said we criticized this law, but at the same time we said that the rivers are very bad and that that would be some kind of argument in favor of the necessity of this law, well, the fact is that with the law of 1992 you could do better things -- with total probability -- than with this law. In that sense, the fact that rivers are worse won't be the subject of improvement with this law. I therefore insist on the lack of need for this law. What is needed is that the law that exists is properly applied, not that laws are changed for free. And as to what I was referring to as if the rivers have gone unless in the last ten or eleven years or in the last forty years, it is obvious that in the last forty years they have been less, but it is also obvious to anyone who knows the rivers that in the last ten fell into inaction and the failure of commitment of their government. Ladies and gentlemen, the inaction of the environmental advisor to the polluted spills to the Furelos River, first as mayor of Melide and then as environmental advisor -- I don't want to disturb the good tone and positive tone of this debate -- allows to harbor very little hope, since it is a river that has been registered for 15 years without the lady councillor doing absolutely nothing to remedy it when she was mayor of Melide for eight years and counsellor for more than two years. That is, the Environmental Adviser allowed, first as mayor in two legislates and then as advisor, that the Furelos River, of high ecological value and within the Natura Network, was repeatedly contaminated by the defect of debugger in Melide's business park, suffering recurrent mortality of trouts and becoming a shadow of what it was. [[Applause]] And don't make me think about matters that, by the way, they can end up working -- or they're already doing -- in the hands of an instruction judge in Arzua. And there's no need to talk about the past. This weekend we learned that Xunta has been denounced for fifteen months in response to the allegations of individuals, ecologists, and let go of the deadline to reverse the granting of exploitation of the River Verdugo, which has been the object of hydroelectric exploitation since 1899 -- one hundred and twenty years -- a river in the hands of a company, Naturgy, who has received numerous complaints for infringement of the ecological flow and inadequate conservation of the devices of removal in that operation. And you can continue to exploit that public good, which is the River Verdugo, by working on what is of all the Greeks. And it's not an isolated case, because that's their management of our rivers. But I don't want to sink into squabbling issues, among other things, because I'm already in a Christmas spirit. Yes, even if they don't believe it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, I'll go on. [[Murmurs.]] Galicia has been a true haven of fishing for decades now, and it could return to it if, instead of pushing for a law that undermines and tends to dismantle the protection of the rivers that it established in the 1992 Law theory, you did in practice comply with that law, fulfilling your obligation to sanction, prevent, improve the situation of river ecosystems, which you have not done at all in the last eleven years; among other things because they don't care about the rivers at all or very little. If you want to improve fishing, you are inspired by the Lion's Fisheries Act, which has chosen to take the matter seriously in the last five years and has seen how the situation of your rivers improved significantly when ours dramatically worsened. And I'm not talking to them of a community governed by another party other than their own, but I'm setting them as an example of what their partymates do. Or take as an example the Asturias Continental Fisheries Act, which is almost twenty years old and doesn't need to be changed. You know his name? "Law on the protection of aquatic ecosystems and the regulation of fisheries in continental waters", protection of aquatic ecosystems, that's what makes everyone less you, who are more interested in allowing all kinds of trolleys in our rivers, or in making it easier for large hydroelectric companies to continue to exploit our common water heritage. And don't talk, please, about "so singular novelties that don't exist in Europe" -- as Mrs Candia literally said," because self-guided is older than Machin's maracas. So you stop saying you're a vanguard when you do things that are done everywhere. In any case, I take advantage -- as I am, as I say, of that Christmas spirit -- to wish Mrs. Candia good Christmas and also the Counsellor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u16	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u17	The PP is present, of course, but it represents the past. And as for the cleaning up of the democratic stage, oh, if I had told him! We're going to leave it by the Christmas spirit and because it's not time to talk about it. You too went out losing, look, because if there's no trout you can no longer go arm yourself to give them a gift to get a certain favor, which was not for the value of those two or three kilos of trout, but for the quarrel and submission that was shown by this practice. If they want to continue with that submission, they reform the law and take care of themselves in health. Look, as for the call to rural tourism, yes, when there was trout in abundance and salmon and rice, the rural taverns provided food and found. Now, sadly, there are few taverns left in the villages, and at fifteen days the fishermen stop going because they are desperate. Look, they didn't want to admit to including who I am and the authority the environmental and technical guards should have. Because you want them to be -- as they say -- fishermen's shepherds, and they want to be environmentally balanced with sufficient authority to get samples of a spill and that the penalty falls on the weight of the law on who destroys the life of the waters. And as you want to continue to have as allies those who do business taking life and shitting -- with forgiveness -- because so they continued to feed fishermen and continue to feed fishermen. Every time we talked to the Commission about aspects of health recovery of river courses, we were told that this was already covered in Articles 6 and 12. And articles 6 and 12 are written with that characteristic ambiguity of misconception, without any attempt to solve anything, with a permissive intention when it should be intransigence into the eco. And every time the needs of drinking water are higher and stocks are smaller. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the history of this debate is the shock of reason against the wall of prepotence and interest, of common sense against the sense of ignorance that only looks at the business. And it is clear that the enemies of river life, of the quality of continental waters, of the health of river ecosystems, of the abundance of fish resources are not their sports fishermen. No, the real enemies are the ones they see, the ones they ignore, those who prefer to look elsewhere, those who cover their eyes not to see, those who use rivers like cloacas and collect the benefits of their crimes. And if you vote in favour of this law, you will be complicit in this attack. Look, I want to finish -- with Mr. President's permission -- with a piece of panxolina, a traditional panxolina cult. You may have left Mondoñedo, Mrs Candia. Pacheco may be the author, may be, I don't claim it. It was my mother who taught me from childhood and it's the first panxolin I sang -- and enough of them -- "Come on, let's see what she does. Come on, he's at the end of his mother's. He's lying in a manger, naked in a straw, and, as it goes so cold, his mother holding it lid. And, as it's getting so cold, your mother holding it lid. Since he was born for our good, alas, what a child so tender!, let's see our child!, let's see, he's in Bethlehem! Let's go see our little boy, let's see him, he's in Bethlehem!Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh [[SINGING.]] Happy winter solstice. Salute and sing the merlo for all. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u18	The winds are almost back. [[Laughter]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Candia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u19	Counsellor, we are certainly going to pass a great law. The Socialist Party has almost wasted its time without talking about it at all. And, Mr. Mini, we're going to thank you. I have to applaud him, because he delighted us with a beautiful song that sounded good. I was right, I'm sure he was from Mondoñedo. That said, I break the Christmas spirit a little bit, but also forced by provocation. And believe me, I had no interest in getting this thing out. But it's hard for me to understand why Mr. Aranguena -- who has such a correct stage, which apparently always comes so documented -- comes with an inexplicable ease in the mud and comes to provoke in a way that is not his own. To me, that I knew him with other responsibilities, it wouldn't happen to me here to talk about the conversations or what he did or what he didn't do, it wouldn't happen to me about institutional respect. But I still don't understand why I have to remind you why Melide doesn't have a debugger. And I opened it, because of course you know, because I was in a government at that time that supported the Nationalist Block in Wales -- your party, you understand me --. Man, we're not gonna be responsible for everything that's going on in the world -- the People's Party --! And you set an example and you want to attack the Counselor with bad faith, with bad faith, and -- let's say -- by forcing ourselves to clarify circumstances that are not healthy in the debate. Because the Fisheries Act, our rivers, our countryside, doesn't deserve to be reminded today that a mayor of Melide, supported by his party, had to end up being condemned precisely by that work that seemed to be of concern to him at that time; and, of course, now he doesn't seem to care anymore. Because he's got several... Man, I'm answering! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We're answering him! [[Murmurs.]] Do you think I quoted Melide on one occasion? [[Murmurs.]] Not at all! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look aside and tell him to agree with you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u20	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u21	No, look...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u22	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u23	I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u24	Silence! Let's get the Christmas spirit back.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u25	Sorry, we'll see!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u26	Silence! Let's get the Christmas spirit back. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's go to the Christmas spirit.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u27	I admit you don't like it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u28	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u29	I understand you don't like it. I don't like it either. But this is the third time I hear in the debate of the fishing law the "debug," "Melide" and miss my advisor. Then you have to understand that I feel obliged to answer by breaking the wonderful Christmas spirit that came, through the facts, to confirm what we were explaining: that the law is a good instrument. [[Murmurs.]] Because, look, you said... I always speak to him with affection even though I didn't know him. [[Murmurs.]] I went to one of his concerts. And I always tell you that I look at you with that look -- if you allow me the expression -- until tender, remind me of my grandmother's Galicia when she tells me she was going with the cows... of course! [[Laughter]] It's true! It's true! [[Laughter]] Then I can't tell you wrong, because I think it's hard, because I even like to have an opportunity to quote my grandmother here, which is one of the people I most wanted in my life. [[Murmurs.]] So I don't want to miss you or bother you with my expressions, but you have to recognize that our job is to tell the truth. [[Laughter]] And the truth is, every time they attack our advisor for the management of Melide's debugger, this is it. [[Murmurs.]] You don't like it? [[Laughter]] Neither do I, but then don't provoke me. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Well, said this, I think I will finish as Mr Arunguena in the Commission has defined this instrument. He said it was a small advance, but a significant advance, so to look for what unites us. Yes, it's recorded. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He said it was a small advance but a significant advance. But it's positive, man! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm talking to you right now! It's just that if I tell you wrong, it's annoying; if I speak well, you don't like it! I'll have to use my speaking time as I consider. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u30	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u31	That said, Counselor, it's a good law. And I didn't want to finish my speech without thanking the entire staff of the Council and also -- let me -- especially the environmental agents, who during this pandemic -- and let's get serious -- they had a very collaborative attitude, even in rural areas and sharing school materials, and, well, finally, making themselves available as staff with a great vocation of public service -- that they have their claims and that we have to be sensitive and we have to continue to build better quality for everyone and for the Administration --. And, no doubt, it goes my memory and my gratitude to all who in a way because very committed, well-being people, work to build a better Galicia with the instrument that surely today, Counselor, we're going to approve. I also finish by wishing you all very good parties, though I think I'm taking part tomorrow, so I won't extend much more to that and I'll be respectful of my turn. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Candia. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The debate is over here. We continue with the following legislative text. Debates and votes by Ditame, drawn up by Commission 2nd, Territorial Planning, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the draft law on the management of Galician territory
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u33	Amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and to the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group are maintained. The president of Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, Ms Carmen Pomar, has the floor for the presentation of the dictation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good day again, gentlemen. The Galician Territory Management Act was entered into the Parliamentary Register on 24 September 2020. And its admission to the proceedings was carried out by the Bureau of Parliament at its meeting on 29 September, opening the deadline for the submission of amendments which ended on 19 October and 2 November 2020 for amendments to the whole and the articulated, respectively. In particular, the amendments to the full refund submitted by the parliamentary groups of the Galician Nationalist Bloc and the Galician Socialists were rejected at the plenary meeting on 10 November 2020. For its part, the amendments to the articulation presented and admitted to the procedure were a total of 306 -- 146 of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia, 134 of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego and 26 of the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia --. Commission 2nd, Territorial Planning, Public Works, Environment and Services, at its meeting on 13 November, appointed the presentation to prepare the report, which was formed on the same date. And at the following four meetings, the rapporteur and the rapporteurs -- Mr Martín Fernández Prado, by the Galician People's Parliamentary Group; Ms Alexandra Fernández Gómez, by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group; and Mr Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, by the Galician Socialist Group -- they prepared the report with their final recommendations, which they issued on 30 November. Subsequently, the 2nd Committee on Territorial Planning, Public Works, Environment and Services, at its meeting on 11 December, approved the dictation I am presenting. It is therefore necessary to complete today the processing of this legislative procedure with the approval, if any, of the draft law on the management of Galician territory. And taking advantage of the Christmas spirit, I wish his lords good parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Pomar. We begin with the round of parliamentary groups to set their position on the dictatorship, if so, and defend the amendments maintained. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. Allow me, first of all, not imbued with the Christmas spirit, but because...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u37	Sorry, you don't listen very well. Let's see if... Let's see now?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u38	Yeah? Now? Neither?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u39	Something better seems. Go give it to him.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u40	Yeah, I'll give it to him. I would say, Mr President, that, not by the Christmas spirit, but because I personally consider it, firstly, I would like to have a special thanks to the former Member of this Parliament, Mr Martín Fernández Prado, who was rapporteur in this Land Management Act. I think it's a person who, within his dialectics, permanently avoids clichés, which is something to thank in every parliamentary environment, and which should be something to thank socially in general. He has facilitated the work of writing this legislative text. I wish you the best in your new position as president of the Port Authority of Coruña. I also believe that it will be good for the Harbour Authority and I believe that this Parliament loses a good parliamentarian. When the debate on this entire Territorial Management Bill was held in the middle of November 10, since our parliamentary group said that the reasons and the need for a new law were not sufficiently accredited, because the mere fact -- it referred to this as well in the previous debate -- that this law has more than two decades of vigency is not sufficient, because there are many other earlier autonomous laws that do not need to be replaced. So argumentation is the same as at that time. Similarly, considering that land management policies are the basis for building a country, we see how since 2009 Galicia has progressively forgotten the idea of making a country; it has been forgetting the idea of having a pact for non-partisan territory and able to lay the foundations for medium-term development. The Land Management Guidelines, although it is true that they lost some of the strengths of the initial documents, still today they present a starting document that is much more attractive than the laws that developed later, where the liberal view of the soil becomes more present. By way of example, the failure of the 2016 Land Law was demonstrated by the shortage of new planning processes in our autonomous community. But the changes made in the existing urban regulations do not justify a new law on the territory, because that should precisely go contrary. Similarly, the theoretical need for new objectives to be addressed should, in any event, be preceded by an analysis of the results of the current Galician Land Management Act, both in terms of its degree of development and application as well as in terms of the vigency or capacity of the land management instruments it contains, which is not addressed either. And, at the same time, we also have to argue what those issues would be that cannot be addressed within the framework of the current legislation. As a clarification that the area of territorial management, and in particular urbanism, is situated in a permanent definition of its orientation with the governments of the People's Party in Galicia, we have the debate that will follow on the so-called Administrative Simplification Act and support for the economic reactivation of Galicia, which also includes urban aspects. Since there is no such prior analysis of the current law that the Galician Union avoids carrying out, it is inconsistent to motivate enough justification for its modification, and more so when, in fact, most of the aspects marked in the bill's explanatory statement are included in the approval, in 2011, of the Territory's own Management Guidelines. So much so that even the Galician Union has recognized that the territorial development model collected in the current Land Management Act -- which will be repealed today -- and in the 2011 Land Management Guidelines is flexible and has a journey; or when it highlights the usefulness of certain existing management instruments that are now intended to be eliminated. It is therefore surprising that the Council of Galicia now argues on the futility of certain instruments which contain the current Land Management Act and opts for its derogation, when it was precisely the self-government itself who disagreed to promote them, showing its own ineffectiveness, which now tries to transmutate in obsolescence of the previous text. It is a bill that, on the contrary, covers important and concrete changes that are needed by the legal body in order to be brought into practice, such as the problematic introduction of new figures such as those that consist of the so-called self-interest projects; instruments that are formulated in a way different from those of the current plans and projects of supra-municipal incidence, setting up as direct management tools by the Galician Union, which is able to harm the principle of municipal autonomy and which poses a threat to the entire territory, regardless of the soil rating, even for those with special protection. At the same time, this is a finding of the lack of guidance and lack of public management demonstrated in recent years for strategic planning and land management by the self-government, when it now promotes an option that distorts flexibility with liberalization and transition, and when in the current urban or industrial legislation there are figures to come to enable certain projects to be implemented. As always, the bill does not introduce any kind of real commitment or future obligation on the part of the Government of Galician Union. Our parliamentary group legitimately aspired to improve this unnecessary text at the stage of the presentation; an aspiration which was truncated by the People's Group, transferring the will of the Government of Galicia. Of the 134 amendments that we tabled with the best intention of improving the text from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, 17 were accepted. In fact, 11 were accepted because 6 coincided with other People's Group that referred to nothing less than the existence of the Territory's Institute of Studies, which disappeared from the initial text. We were able to trade four amendments, and the rest, that is, 113 were rejected. At this point, we must look at the rejected proposals, because the above figures could be reduced to statistical weaknesses. In the allotted time, I will try to make a few strokes about the amendments that have been registered, because speaking of the 113 rejected would be impossible in the time we have allocated, and that debate was also held in the press. We planned in our amendments, with regard to the guiding principles and criteria of the law itself, that the instruments provided for in the law were complementary and not exclusive to those which with regard to urban management are governed by their specific legislation. It was ultimately about providing legal security to an extremely complex area from a regulatory point of view, such as urbanism, because we all know that it is in the legal sphere where the real complexity is, in the orientation and interpretation of the rules. On territorial rationality, we thought that, with regard to certain existing developments, if those that were compatible were kept, because for those who are developing, which are not compatible with the territorial model that you want, it would require an adequacy rather than perpetuation of developing projects that could or should be corrected. On administrative competence, we thought that public urban activity was generally in the hands of municipalities, which would exercise many competences in urban matters which were expressly assigned to them or those which were not assigned to other administrations. Obviously, we all know that councils should respect -- like? -- legislation in the elaboration of their plans. They are subject to their approval, but they are directly responsible for this activity. By the way, one might wonder about the operation of these municipal certification bodies present in our urban regulations. With regard to citizen participation, we wanted any of the territorial management instruments covered by this law to be subject to a period of not less than 20 days of citizen participation through public exposure and hearing to local entities, prior to their approval. We believe, frankly, that in a matter of so much relevance and impact on citizenship as territorial management, it seems essential to ensure its participation; the same as when we ask that the process of participation be implemented through a specific plan that should be made public. With regard to the content of the Territorial Management Guidelines, which are also regulated, we wanted them to include a quantification of needs in different areas or areas of the territory and the setting of parameters that should be taken into account by urban management instruments, in order to ensure the availability of soil needed to achieve their purposes. Let us ask ourselves today how it is possible to refuse that there is a quantified analysis of the objective requirement for the availability of the needed soil. With regard to parliamentary control, the text to be adopted provides that Parliament shall be informed every three years. We understand that it is an excessive period and that it could be reported, without great complexity, annually, because what is too much for the Galician Parliament to know on an annual basis the degree of development of the objectives and the determinations of the territorial management guidelines? Is there already no system of indicators that can be modified or completed for monitoring and evaluation of those objectives and determinations? We also want Parliament to be informed of the progress, criteria and guidelines that should have been approved before by this House, with regard to parliamentary control, as did the previous one. We intend to set up the Management Board of the Territory of Galicia; a collective body of a representative or consultative type, with a composition, to ensure an institutional presence both of the departments of the Autonomous Community Administration and of the rest of the public administrations with competence in the territory, but also with representation of the most representative organizations of local, business and trade unions, and with active participation of associations and other entities related to the management of the territory, as well as the inclusion of experts and specialists in this area. We also wanted, within the content of the integrated territorial plans, to include a weighted estimate of the soil surfaces that should be reserved for some of the following purposes: the construction of official protective dwellings, both public and private, or the public promotion of industrial soil. It is appropriate to know which part of these purposes is not shared when planning and designing the content of integrated territorial plans is required. We also want these integrated territorial plans to carry out an economic study on the coherence between the proposed rules and actions and the availability of resources. Would it not be appropriate for such an analysis to connect proposals that are supposed to be based on needs with available resources? Because this amendment was not accepted either. We propose, with regard to the effectiveness of the territorial plans, that when those plans had an impact on existing urban plans, the agreement and the final approval of those plans necessarily needed the specific points where the plans could be modified, without prejudice, of course, to agree on appropriate procedures in the municipalities to adapt them to their determinations. With regard to the management of projects of self-interest, we intend that, in the event of the exercise of expropriation in favour of a private person, the beneficiary should justify the need to articulate such a process of forced expropriation in order of a manifest public interest, as well as the impossibility of being able to access other systems provided for his enjoyment or acquisition. It would ultimately be a matter of limiting the use of expropriatory power in an absolutely guaranteed way, which, although we agree that it can be understood that already exists in the regulations, would add additional protection to the owners. We also want the role of coordinated action programmes to be created, so that a multi-annual plan relating to the whole of the Community or to some of its sectoral or cross-sectoral areas is drawn up, incorporating the actions proposed by the various public administrations or bodies operating within the autonomous Community. To conclude, I mean, with regard to the procedure for the approval of the land management instruments to be subject to the ordinary strategic assessment, which we believe is necessary for the Galician Union to communicate to this Parliament quarterly the approval of the remaining land management instruments that this law collects, with the indication of its main characteristics. Again, ladies and gentlemen, it would be necessary to inform the Galician Parliament of the development of these actions. It's a problem, we believe, of will and of impulse to transparency; it's not about access to information, but about ease of access to that information. Finally, we would like to point out that with regard to the designation of the Territorial Management Guidelines, the Council of Galicia, within a maximum of three months from the date of entry into force of this law, a document containing the new classification of the determinations of the existing Land Management Guidelines has been approved, because, as I said at the beginning of my speech, the Council of Galicia always regulates for others, but it never imposes its own obligations and much less specific deadlines to develop the necessary instruments and determinations. So we are going to oppose this legal text for the reasons we already set out at the plenary session on 10 November, but in addition, because we were unable to substantially modify the law in terms we considered necessary. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galician Nationalist Block Group, Mrs. Fernández Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u42	Thank you, President. In Galicia we have an important problem, a very big problem, with territorial planning. And the main cause of this problem is that until now no space planning has been developed that has ordered the territory from an integral perspective. There is neither the country scale nor the sub-regional scale; we only have land management guidelines that work as general recommendations, but without the put into operation after integrated territorial plans that implement them in a specific regulation. We have no instruments that really serve to govern the territory. The only effective planning in our territory is that of the general municipal management plans that are centered inside the municipal term. But the problem is, for many years now, urban processes have overflowed this milestone. Forty years ago, it began a process of widespread urbanization on the Atlantic axis, or that the forms of urban life were coexisted in land-based settlements and that social relationships, types of displacement, distances, relationships between residential space and economic activities, land-uses. And all of this, all of these transformations in recent decades, have made the territorial dynamics throughout Galicia move ever more towards an articulation on a wider scale, on a sub-regional or supra-municipal scale -- they call it what they want -- It is that our territorial reality basically translates into metropolitan and comarcas fields. What is clear is that since the sum of municipal planning it is impossible to articulate Galician territorial reality today, and much less considering the complexity of the urban system and the polycentric model, as is ours. And my question is, why don't we have territorial planning on that scale in Galicia? Why do other autonomous communities have it? Why do Euskadi, Catalonia or Andalusia have sub-regional planning for their territory? We don't have it for the sake of this government's will, and it took us until the year 95 to really assume the competences of land management. We're late; we're late with the first land management law in the 95th. But at least he set the first framework that finally made it possible for us to have territorial planning on that scale. I would allow us to have supra-municipal instruments -- for the end -- and start planning. But this law that opened the doors had a problem, and it didn't force the adoption of these instruments, so that, over the past twenty-five years of the approval of that land management law, today neither the first plan of sub-regional scale has been approved. In total, it's been 40 years and we haven't taken care of territorial planning yet. And that's problem number one, that there's a government that doesn't want to take on jurisdictional ordination. They don't want to plan, because planning means setting limits, and that's why the legal text they're going to pass today is not a new law. They can sell it, they can make a lot of publicity to say they pull out a lot of laws ahead of them, but it's not a new law; it's next to the 95th Law with all these eves and with one change: self-interest projects, which are actually punctual projects that have supra-municipal will. But why do you want the supra-municipal skills? Exclusively to assume the ability to reclassify and reclassify only discreetly, but without these projects being enrolled in any planning. You just want to assume the competences that facilitate deregulation, the ballast, the business, but not the ones that really serve to order the territory. And the second problem that we have -- which is also serious, it's heavy and what we have to answer -- is the dynamic of extensive urbanization over the last few decades, which is the result of a logic of fast-duty extraction and which has been fuelled by a framework of policy where there are no limits and there are no criteria that are the result of a public assessment -- public assessment and not only private interests -- of an assessment of the costs and benefits of medium- and long-term interventions. Without planning, Galicia's territorial dynamics at the moment is subject to the only criterion of economic profitability, and thus priority is given to using new soil because it is more profitable in the economy than to face transformation and improvement of existing ones. And even public administrations themselves assume this logic of immediate profitability. For example, when deciding on the location of supramunicipal equipment, they are based on concentration and cheap soil criteria, but not on supramunicipal planning criteria. And, of course, what are the consequences of this? What are the mobility costs after? What are the environmental costs?, the cost of a model where the territory is fragmented? And the same is true of economic activities, which, in most cases, do not meet the criteria of territorial coherence, but rather deepen the model of reducing initial costs without assessing the economic viability of interventions; without assessing, for example, what is the cost of infrastructure that should be added to these interventions, because sometimes the cheap, at first, ends up very expensive. And without supra-municipal planning, the result is an urbanized territory that lacks urban quality, with inadequate densities and with tissue disconnected from each other and disconnected from existing tissues. And without supra-municipal planning over all these decades, urbanization of all this time has not served to provide, to improve, not to give greater social cohesion, nor to improve mobility patterns, nor to guarantee access to housing; for the only one who served was to rapidly extract surpluses at the cost of territorial fragmentation. That's why we're not only late in planning, not only forty years late in planning, but now we have to give more powerful and more complex answers to intervene on this territorial reality. Therefore, the fundamental and priority objectives for a new law that really assumes or that will take on territorial planning competences should be, at least, developing sub-regional planning -- it's urgent. Secondly, planning which is considered to be public interest and which is therefore not subject solely to major economic interests, but rather to public, social and collective objective criteria. And thirdly, include criteria for the sustainability and resilience of territorial values. In other words, the costs are assessed in the medium and long term. But this law, this new law, does not respond to any of this; on the contrary, it favors that any timely intervention of soil transformation does not need to be contemplated or connected with any territorial planning instrument, nor even with the only ones that were vigilant, which are municipal ones. You may be disconnected from any schedule. And those projects remain to the absolute arbitrariness of the board of directors, so that this will work like this: if you're a powerful and capable company with sufficient pressure, you can access to buy the bull, which will issue the board of directors; you're issued that bull, which is called a declaration of self-interest, and with that you can reclassify and reclassify yourself, even rustic -- free bar-- So this is not a new law, it's a modification of the previous law, for further deregulation. And, therefore, if the situation was precarious to the law we had, it's absolutely tragic now. So, since the BNG, we have proposed 146 amendments to this legal text -- which, by the way, the President of the Commission, has mistakenly moved, and in the presentation report I think it should be corrected -- one part of them with the objective of halting this regulatory process, but another one with a strategic will. The bulk of our amendments are meant to propose and articulate a new legal framework for Galicia in 2020, which connects us more with European planning policies and not with models of colonial territorial planning other latitudes, which seems to be the example to be followed by the People's Party. They are more than 140 amendments, as I say, strategically to respond to the main problems and objectives I have just mentioned. This is the debate that is on the table. You propose a timely amendment of the law to just disarm it, to give it the final stockpiling, and we put a new land management law on the table for Galicia 2020, because we really believe that another way of inhabiting the territory is possible to transform our surroundings differently. We sincerely regret that the People's Party once again applied the knee; the knee passed and the proposals were rejected in mass. Of 146 amendments, they only accepted 8 and traded 3; they were of a generic and non-binding nature. So I'm going to report on the main proposals that we believe would move this country forward and that today the People's Party wants to remember that it will refuse one at a time. First, that the Land Management Guidelines should be a truly effective tool. To that end, we propose not only recommendations, vagueities, but also criteria and standards to guide settlement processes, the location of infrastructures, equipment, services and the improvement of the use and use of natural resources, etc., etc. That is, the guidelines really have the ability to condition the transformations of the territory. The guidelines must also clarify and guide this sub-regional planning which is so urgent in this country. They should limit which are the supra-municipal, sub-regional areas, preferably in our country, obviously, metropolitan and comarcal type, in which it divides and articulates the whole territory. And once those areas are defined, we need to analyze, diagnose what opportunities are, what problems exist in that area, with specific objectives, concrete actions and specific time horizons that really allow us to move forward. Secondly, we believe that an integrative vision of territorial planning is needed. It's ridiculous -- seriously -- that the land management advisorship is willing to put in place landscape policies and guidelines that soon keep no relationship with territorial planning and end up being the same as the territorial management guidelines: much literature and little intervention capacity. What we need is new land management guidelines with development harmonized with landscape guidelines, because they're two approaches to the same object. And besides, we need to understand the landscape as something more than a postcard. We have to move forward in that idea of the landscape, we have to include life forms, practices, knowledge that derives from it, and above all incorporate it as a right, the right of the population to live in a cultural, social and environmentally significant environment. Thirdly, we have to have a medium and long-term vision of the territorial model, because the territorial model cannot mortgage the future of territorial values. That's why we propose an assessment of the costs and risks of the different models of exploitation and use of agricultural, forestry, mining, mining and extractive resources, with the aim of setting criteria, recommendations and operating standards in planning. They are necessary, and they must be guided by the principle of environmental, social and economic resilience, in the short, medium and long term. In order not to mortgage the future, planning must also integrate criteria for localization of uses, and uses must be governed by efficiency and competitiveness criteria, but also where less infrastructure, public transport, maintenance and conservation costs are generated; and less territorial fragmentation costs, because the aim should be to minimize the future of territorial assets, because that is what gives us the capacity to adapt and respond to times of change and crises. A less vulnerable territorial model is the strength of the future, and we are seeing it now, that we are at a time of great transformation and that we have great vulnerabilities in the territory that conditions us. And the fourth point is a new architecture of the spatial planning instruments. As I explained before, after twenty-five years of law, there is not a single approved sub-regional scale plan; on the other hand, if a lot of sectoral plans have been developed. And this arbitrariness in order to prioritize plans linked exclusively to the development of certain economic activities and the paralysis of integral planning has to change. That's why we propose in our amendments agitating comprehensive planning, which in the 2031 horizon, in the ten-year horizon, all the supra-municipal areas contain integrated territorial plans approved. And as for the sectoral plans, which you like so much, I think it is necessary to clarify the revolutionary universe that is within the sectoral plans, because they are issues and subjects of a very different nature. They are used to order infrastructure, housing, extractive activities, energy exploitation, issues that would deserve different treatment and different criteria and standards. That is why we propose that sectoral plans be divided into two figures: sectoral plans as tools for ordering economic activities, and, on the other hand, the creation of a new instrument, plans that affect territorial planning, which serve to order infrastructure, services, housing, equipment, public issues. This new instrument would allow for another great novelty, planning from Galicia the infrastructures of scope and state competence affecting our territory, so that we can decide here, for example, the planning of the road network and railway infrastructures jointly, the infrastructures of Galicia and those of state competence, forcing the Central Administration to adapt to our planning. I imagine many will feel uncomfortable. The one who is comfortable in that Spanish centralist accumulation model, I'm sure what I just said might be problematic, but I want to remember that this is incorporated into the Land Management Act of Andalusia, for example. And I wonder why Andalusia can and we can't? [[Applause]] If the People's Party accepted these amendments, it would be an advance, because it would no longer have to send letters to the Central Government, to come here every day with initiatives, asking the Central Government for things. And now they're no longer sitting in the Moncloa, but unfortunately the People's Party will also reject this amendment, because you prefer theatre to compete, and that's your big problem. These are just, as I say, some of the axes of our proposal, that you're going to block completely point-by-point. We regret that while some of us are thinking about how to strengthen the country, others are just worried about rolling...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u43	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u44	...and to continue with that legislative agenda to convert the territory unique and exclusively into the business of a few interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u45	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, you have the floor of Mrs. Novoa Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u46	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you, ladies and gentlemen. Today the processing of the Law on the Management of Galician Territory comes to an end. First of all, I would like to thank the advisor for the achievement of this important law for Galicia, and congratulate her on the good done in this law and for all the intense legislative work they are doing right now in the Environmental Counsellorship, Planning, Territory and Living. Secondly, I wanted to thank everyone and all the tone they kept in the presentation, but allow me a special mention to my colleague Martín Fernández Prado, who did all the work, the very good work of this presentation and this law, of which we are discussing today's final approval. I'm sure we're all going to miss him, both for his indisputable worth professionally as, and most importantly, for the most good personal value my companion Martín Fernández Prado has. [[Applause]] And when he came in, Counsellor, I mean he was seen, for this is the chronicle of the announced death; it was seen that his lords would vote against this law, and they had already decided it from the beginning. Mrs. Alexandra Fernández compared it here with laws of the Basque Country or Andalusia, with laws of the year 1990 or 1994 that include... you insist, and the figure you say is already covered in our Land Management Act, which are the sectoral plans. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Yes, Mrs. Fernández, those sectoral plans. But, well, I'm going to go into the room and then we're going to have a second look at this. I want to highlight the importance of spatial planning for any society, but also in a special way for Galicia, where the territory and landscape are key elements. This law sets the general criteria for ordering activities on the ground, which is a well limited and very sensitive, and for making a sustainable and balanced development, safeguarding natural values. With this law we closed the renewal and drafting of new legislative texts that complement the territorial and urban regulation of our autonomous community, complementing what was missing and reforming and modernizing existing and obsolete ones. The care of the landscape and territory is one of four axes of Galicia's strategy towards 2030 -- the Green Galicia -- totally in tune with European and world policies. The society, ladies and gentlemen, has changed a lot in those twenty-five years which has brought into force the current law, and is amended by this new legislative text. But if we have to highlight something, it is the concern for climate change and environmental aspects. Society, ladies and gentlemen, is requiring much more commitment and this law is on its way. This land management law updates, simplifies and expedites the different instruments of urban planning, to avoid possible imbalances and improve the full coordination and planning of the territory in terms of equality. The perspective of gender gives the view that the territory, the cities and the way we order the landscape must pursue the idea of generating environmentally and economically sustainable spaces, and humanly accessible as well. I mean, the ultimate purpose of ordination must be to equitably improve people's lives, taking into account the whole of their diversity and complexity. You put -- how do you not -- problems with administrative simplification, which in our time is more than necessary. We've made an effort to simplify the number of figures existing in the law so that those that are now regulated are more effective and solve the problems at the scale at which we're working, the territorial scale. But, moreover, in the line of the last German and state legislation, it integrates the environmental procedure and the processing of the management instrument, avoiding having to go to various standards to identify which procedure is applicable, reinforcing environmental control -- not how you criticize; no environmental guarantee will be lost --. Even so, a single processing procedure is established for all land-based management instruments, while it brings greater security to the sector plan figure, by realising and updating its definition to differentiate it from the concept of sectoral project, and above all integrates into a single procedure the approval of certain land-based management documents and the modification of urban planning that usually carries together, giving legal security and avoiding subsequent work to the municipalities. The saying, an update of the law that aims to be useful and practical to society and that will be more efficient and thus improve the implementation of territorial management figures and thus help achieve the ultimate goal, which is nothing more than to continue to care for one of our highest assets, our territory and our landscape. You say -- about all the gentlemen of the BNG -- that the reasons and the necessity of a new law are not believed. As I said, after twenty-five years and after the important changes in society, I think the need for updating is more than justified. In addition, the advantage of applying a law for twenty-five years is to know what its strengths are and what aspects need to be improved. Adjustment to legislation and environmental sensitivity at present, updating processing, integrating environmental processing, including gender aspects, improving transparency or responding to society's demand to simplify bureaucracy and maximize the processing of files, without prejudice to any legal and environmental guarantees, are aspects that give us repeatedly the reason for updating this standard. You also oppose the elimination of coordinated action plans and physical media management plans, as they propose their elimination for the same reasons that they were also eliminated in other autonomous communities. For physical media management plans, they are collected more appropriately in other sectoral laws of territorial impact, such as the protection of natural spaces or the Landscape Law. Specific management figures appeared much more appropriate for the management of areas with logging, forestry and agricultural characteristics, such as natural resource management plans, for example. In any case, this figure has its equivalent and could also develop through special territorial plans. With regard to coordinated action programmes, it is understood that it is a figure of a clearly investor character and of a more administrative component, as collected in the guidelines themselves, and makes no sense that it is collected as a territorial management instrument itself. You also said that the law does not respect municipal autonomy. What you're doing is a more effective and more efficient law. Unnecessary or ancillary administrative burdens are avoided, which means rationalisation of public resources associated with the processing of administrative procedures related to them. In order to avoid duplication of proceedings, the new law provides that the processing of the land's own management instrument determines the modification of urban planning directly, without the need to re-process a new procedure with the sole purpose of expressly contemplating such a change that already prevails. It's obvious that territorial planning has to be imposed on urban planning, that's what it was, and the law was forcing the municipalities to make later changes to their planning. What was going on? What happened was that they didn't, and the plan wasn't up-to-date. This could generate some doubt, confusion or insecurity if some citizen wanted to know the urban reality in those areas. So let me tell you that the experience of these years tells you that on many occasions you have to update this law, because the municipalities are not able to develop their urban skills, and it's the municipalities themselves that ask the Board to use this mechanism to make an industrial polygon or other actions, because they are not able to do it urbanistically. And allow me a little consideration, without accuracy, for those of Vigo, who always spread themselves every time we talk about Vigo. For a clear example of this is the Vigo Council and the recent adoption in April 2020 of the Sectoral Project for Enlargement of the Vigo Technology and Logistics Park. Yes, because Vigo, ladies and gentlemen, it's a pity they don't care, it's no urban plan, and it has to make use of these actions. But the point of the matter is that what they were really opposed to was -- they passed by, but that's what they really opposed, Counselor -- it was about projects of self-interest. So this figure, which generates a climax there in the BNG, is just an update of the supra-municipal plans that were in the previous law. It's possible that this scheme will continue to allow a configuration of a global and flexible territorial framework, something that you don't understand -- and I don't understand how they're not able to understand -- and that they fit the performances, both sectorally and integrated, without excluding the possibility of arbitrating punctual solutions where necessary, and that from the preeminence that should by definition have territorial planning on urban planning. This instrument -- which can be, as it is now, public or private -- is the only direct intervention in the territory; that is, it will serve to plan and execute concrete actions, such as the deployment of urban resources, the creation of soil for protected housing and the creation of soil for economic activities. In all cases, it must be justified that they transcend the municipal domain because of their territorial, economic, social or cultural impact and that they have no prediction or accommodation in the current planning, so in no case can they defend that alleged violation of municipal autonomy, since we are talking about a territorial planning at an autonomous scale that justifies that prevalence over urban planning. Self-interest projects can develop effective sectoral plans or be autonomous, i.e. not provided for in any sectoral plan, whether they are planned or not, respectively. In the case of projects of unplanned self-interest, before initiating its proceedings, the Board of Trustees must obtain the corresponding declaration of self-interest, which constitutes a guarantee which is already regulated in the present law. Finally, we do not share that alluded threat to the rustic soil of special protection, because at all times we are guaranteeing the protection of this type of soil. And even among the purposes and objectives of the law is to identify the territorial areas that must be particularly protected, ensuring their rational use and conservation, coordinating the actions that are projected or carried out in each territorial area. In any event, territorial responsibilities should be exercised without prejudice to those arising from the different sectoral rules which result from implementation. And -- I insist --, gentlemen, self-interest projects come to replace the current sectoral projects of supra-municipal impact. It was decided to modify the name of this instrument for two reasons: firstly, to differentiate it from sectoral plans, whereas the actions they develop do not always have that marked sectoral character; and secondly, to note that this figure has a territorial impact that exceeds the supramunicipality. To BNG, who speaks insistently of the failure of the current law, because I would say that we have guidelines made with the current law and that we have a coastal management project that is an internationally recognized document for its quality; the two facts, holistically, as required, as well as several sectoral plans for many of the strategic sectors and dozens of sectoral projects. Many acts performed in these last twenty-five years under Law 10/1995 were the solution to provide services, equipment and industrial soil for citizens in municipalities where they were unable to do so without these instruments. It would seem to them little success, but among them, many, many, many in the municipalities governed by their parties, who are unable to bring forward an urban plan. And by the way, ladies and gentlemen, they say they generate guidelines and a management plan, but it shouldn't be that easy because you in four years of the Bipartite weren't able to get them out of the way. The previous government -- in that case, the counsellor at that time, Mr. Feijóo -- left them ready and you weren't able to finish them. He had to come back to Mr Feijó's Government in 2009 to pass these guidelines, which you were unable to approve later. So, less -- I don't know what I'm going to say -- "sovereign" here in this gallery, gentlemen. As for participation, transparency and accessibility, I think you know that all strategy or planning documents are done with participation in writing and with consultations across society and stakeholders. In addition, however, all these documents include periods and phases of systematic allegations and consultations. So I don't think that criticism is going to happen right now, and we don't think that's going to happen. And to finish, we will adopt today, ladies and gentlemen, a law that will positively influence the quality of life of the Greeks and the Greeks, taking into account, in addition, that the law favours the maximum citizen participation in the development of the different instruments that will act on the territory. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u47	Thank you very much, Mrs. Novoa. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We have opened a round of parliamentary groups to define the amendments that have been maintained by others. First of all, by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr Álvarez Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u48	Thank you very much again, Mr. President. Mrs. Novoa, I thank that appointment for the Nobel Prize in Literature, Garcia Márquez, referring to the Chronicle of a Death Announced with regard to this vote. I could also tell you that it is the chronicle of a singing vote; that is, we already know what this whole debate is going to give you. But let me also tell you that one of Mr. García Márquez's novels was the owner of a small river fleet -- which no longer has to do with the previous debate of the Continental Fisheries Act -- which said that the fleet was kept for pure disregard of fatality. Well, something similar also happens to urbanism in this autonomous community. And, yes, the reality is, within the argument we already know, if you're talking about an effort... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u49	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u50	...in the simplification of regulations and processing, which there is a reinforcement in environmental control. We will certainly see with regard to environmental control, which gives you the new Law on Administrative Simplification and Support for Economic Reactivation, which will be discussed after this debate that we are maintaining. You say there are strengths in the law, but there are also aspects that should be improved; that do not violate municipal autonomy, but that it makes urban planning more efficient; that it is important to have planning figures in properly updated municipalities, which, of course, I think we all agree. But let me remind you, Mrs. Novoa, that between 2011 and 2019 only 49 plans have been approved and there are now 90 plans in progress. And it is evidence that the Council itself has made it easier when it presented to this Parliament the memory of the Land Management Guidelines, which would place us, once we have all completed, that 44.2% of the Greek municipalities would have an adapted plan. I think, in view of the success of the last eight years, that doesn't seem to be an argument that should be kept in this plenary. And there's no, Mrs. Novoa, there was and I honestly believe there will be no regulatory stability in urban matters, because, look, if we can basically say that Galicia's urban code has 16 standards -- some of the legal rank and others of the regulatory rank -- let me tell you that the course of changing various norms over the past few years has made stability not go beyond the scope of the voratum, in the case of the People's Party governments. Because this Galician Land Planning Act that is going to be overturned today has had six changes, four of them with Mr. Núñez Feijóo's governments. It was modified in 2010 -- oh!, surprise -- by the Law on Tax and Administrative Measures; it was amended in 2012; it was amended in 2016 by the Law on the Soil of Galicia; and it was amended again in 2018 with another Law on Tax and Administrative Measures. That debate has already been held yesterday and we know what it means, but the fact is that so much change in so little time is good evidence that it is not necessary to adjust -- as it was said yesterday -- in the People's Party's defense of the legal changes introduced into the law known as accompaniment, but that it is part of a too much trajectory, it would say abused but, well, yes... it is a path of change which in the urban sphere permanently introduces insecurity. Or the Law of urgent measures in the area of land and coastal management, which had four changes, two of them in the same year, in 2010; or the Law of Protection of the Landscape of Galicia, with three modifications; or the Law of 2016, of the soil of Galicia -- this is for note -- a law of the People's Party that has five amendments, and that will be six, with the approval at its time of the Law of Tax and Administrative Measures of the budgets of 2021, but which has changed nothing more and nothing less than two times in ten months, once published. That is, in 2017, that law of 2016 is changed twice, which has a total -- I repeat -- six changes. So, Mrs. Novoa, let me wonder that the success of this new law -- I repeat, it would be unnecessary from our point of view -- I think it will be evidenced because we can put the counter to zero, if it seems to you, all and see how many changes there are of this magnificent, wonderful text, and that so much security will contribute to the territorial planning of Galicia over the next few years. For my part, that's all. And since this is the last intervention in this plenary session, I wish all of your ladies good parties and a happy entry in the year 2021, which I think is quite easy to be better than this year 2020. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] On behalf of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Fernández Gomez has the floor again.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u52	Thank you, Vice President. Mrs. Novoa has just said that our argument is that we believe this new law is not justified. I don't know if you've heard it, because I just made an account of all the needs, all the challenges and all the problems that we must face and the need to have a new law. So you either didn't hear or come with the intervention prepared, but we didn't say at all that no new law is needed; what we say is that you have to update it and that you have to go further, in fact. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Look, since the autonomous communities took on territorial management skills, most took advantage of all the first decades of planning to develop a first strike, a first generation of territorial management. And while these autonomous communities took advantage of themselves to have their own politics, a certain own territorial policy to design their first instruments, here they haven't done anything at all, that's the problem. And now many autonomous communities are already in the second planning gap and are doing planning updates -- as I say -- getting closer to the European planning context and not to this colonial model that you want to implement. We've been here for twenty-five years of paralysis and zero supermunicipal projects, zero physical media management projects... you can't come here to sell anything positive of the development of this law! It's a shame! Create physical media sorting projects and zero submunicipal sorting projects! But please! So, of course, while other communities are developing this second wave of territorial management, we ask that at least that first generation that we've never had and that we're going out once and for all of this paralysis situation. We need a minimum law that requires, at least, to push for approval of plans, which proposes land management guidelines that actually address something and a public perspective of planning; basic issues and all rejected by the People's Party, because to you territorial planning -- I insist -- it will leave you upset. In our proposal, in addition, we did not want to stay here with a law of the 1990s, no, we also wanted to update the policy framework and develop a framework at the height of 2020, put ourselves in that second-generation planning wave, incorporating new issues such as participation. A cohesive territory demands a process of participation and involvement of society itself; therefore, it cannot be limited to a process of allegations, as you propose. The administration itself must encourage social and institutional participation, encourage the exchange of arguments, the expression of demands and the desire to reach major agreements, and not just to find itself systematically with a wall, the wall of allegations. But, of course, in addition to keeping up with planning, people are also often left to themselves; people bother them with certain projects. And we propose, with our amendments, participation mechanisms -- especially those that are recorded in previous processes, not when the project is already done -- and also mechanisms for accountability. We also incorporated new concepts such as the vision of feminism, which also has its consequence in territorial planning; the participation of women, women as political subjects; planning policies; and, above all, an important approach that has made feminism, which is the incorporation of the vision of everyday life and the task of care. Policies should include measures to implement the principle of equality and to take into account the impact of gender roles, unpaid work and sexual division of work on the differentiated use of the territory by women and men. The People's Party will vote against this, too. We also proposed that it was essential for the Council to involve itself in this issue of equality and that it bet on access to gender training for its own technical staff, for political staff, because it was usually always a sector very monopolised by a patriarchal vision. The perspective of gender also means including planning for different uses related to everyday life, promoting complex cities and towns, proximity, enhancing the social function of public spaces, introducing gender perspective in planning and transport management, promoting mobility of care, promoting access to housing for women, making the work of women in rural areas visible... all this is going to be overthrown today by the People's Party, because you don't believe in feminist policies either. We also ask for progress in the vision of which is Galicia's geopolitical role, because with planning we not only decided on the country's internal vertebration, but rather on the role of playing abroad. And, on the one hand, we were proposing those plans of impact on territorial planning, which were the capacity and competence to decide on state-level issues, which is going to be a missed opportunity for this country, but we are also asking for a different geopolitical strategy to be defined.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u53	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u54	In the text you propose -- I'm going to finish -- the connection to the main nuclei -- that you call national -- that is participating in the Madrid radial model. That's the prioritization of the strategic model that the People's Party will define in this document, and we proposed to modify it, prioritize the development of Galicia's geostrategic potential on the Atlantic axis, in the euro region, in the northwest peninsula...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u55	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u56	...and in the European Atlantic Arc, and none of these four strategies interest them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u57	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u58	Then they come here with crocodile tears, but the reality is that you're also against...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u59	Thank you very much, it's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u60	...that model, to define a geopolitical role and to achieve more sovereignty for this country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u61	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] You have the floor for the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Novoa Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u62	Thank you, President. Look, Mrs. Fernández and Mr. Álvarez, many amendments were tabled, and my colleague Martín Fernández Prado -- transmitted by him -- gave them an agreement on a good number of amendments for at least abstention, but you said no, because you had before the elimination of projects of self-interest. What we're not going to do is pass a law we don't agree with. No, we didn't pass the knee, we approved 25 amendments and 7 transactions, and what we're not going to do is change the spirit of the law because we made this law, Mrs. Fernández; that's clearly not. You see, the truth is, it's very difficult to understand your model, because it's suddenly put in the Basque law of 1990 or in the Andalusian law of 1994. So, what do you want? Updated laws, laws of the 1990s...? It's hard to understand his theory. Many communities have eliminated this instrument, that of the physical environment, and many years of experience, what they have given us was to see that it has not been used, that it has not been used, so we propose to eliminate it. Look, we're going to eliminate instruments that haven't been used in twenty-five years, and they look bad to you. We propose administrative simplification, a single procedure for processing land management instruments, while at the same time improving the lives of the municipalities and avoiding duplication, and they do not agree. Now you've been caught with simplification! But you, who set an example here many times in Portugal, where you have a simplification -- that we all share enough -- of the administrative bureaucracy, are now against administrative simplification, without prejudice to eliminating any guarantees, environmental or territorial, of course not. Now they hold on to that. A fourth management instrument has been created, which are the projects of self-interest, which have the philosophy of sectoral projects of supramunicipal incidence, and take out their mantras from the police, from the rotating doors...; an old speech, Mrs. Fernández. No one believes them about the cop and all that you said. I was the rapporteur, with Mr. Tellado, of the Business Implementation Act and they said the same thing. Two years have passed and another law comes here today... where is it? [[Murmurs.]] But tell me I'm a cop, because they don't believe us, that's why they're there, and we're here again, for the fourth time. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And it's not presuming, it's not presuming! [[Applause]] It's because people share, they have the same speech as this group, not theirs, gentlemen. That's the reason for your failure. Look, as far as the Land Law is concerned, I think you talked yesterday about the theme of the Measurement Law, but there are two clear justifications. On the one hand, the amendments proposed are the result of the requirement and discrepancies made by the Ministry for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Reit against Amendments to the Soil Law practiced by Law 7/2019, of 23 December, of tax measures. First reason. And, secondly, it responds to the need to clarify in cases or modify in other cases certain inaccuracies or indeterminations found in the application of urban legislation, specifically those relating to the processing of municipal basic plans for municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants in urban planning. Yes, a figure that we also created and that you criticized the other day at the commission, but which I don't think you have much criticism because there are 49 municipalities that could benefit from these plans, there are nine that are being dealt with and one that has already been approved. I believe that, instead of criticizing, it is better to defend this initiative. Ladies and gentlemen, it's hard to know what your model is, what your model is in general: territory, energy model, business model -- it's very complicated because you're based on the private company, what you talked about yesterday, the councillor of Fairy, and you should recognize that public-private collaboration is necessary. But you, as soon as the word "private" appears, because you're talking about spolio, friends, business... business for whom? [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I work; I work, Mr. Rivas! Work is what we need, employment, public and private, public and private collaboration. And as long as they don't understand it, they'll still be there. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are very aware of the importance of the new Land Management Act for our community, and the People's Group argues that urban legislation is a guarantee of success to ensure that land management in each municipality is coherent and equal to the citizens of the municipality itself. But there is also a need for supra-municipal instruments that guarantee equal opportunities throughout Galicia in order to correct the possible imbalances resulting from the variety that our territory presents. Therefore, the future Land Management Act adapts to Galicia's territorial evolution is its current reality, and presents itself as a way to ensure social cohesion and to improve the quality of life not only for the present generations but also for future generations. Present and future, Mr. Rivas. You were talking about the past, but we are present and future. Counsellor, nothing else, I just want to thank you for this important law, for all the legislative work you're doing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u63	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u64	...and congratulate her. Nothing else on my part.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u65	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u66	President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u67	Why do you want the use of the word, Mrs. Pomar?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u68	As President of the Commission, I simply ask for the floor to apologize to the parliamentary groups of the Galician Nationalist Bloc and the Galician Socialists, because, by mistake, indeed, in transcription, the numbers of amendments to the articles of law have been crossed. So, don't tell me the original is fixed. Thank you very much. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u69	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pomar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u70	Yes, why do you want to use your word, Counselor?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u71	Well, it's just to thank everyone for a job. Not every day, two legislative texts are brought to the House, not every day they are debated and not every day they are voted on. It's a huge job, done by a team, but it's also a huge, very participatory work of society. They've been close enough, more than a thousand between the two laws, and therefore you must thank the cordial tone, and even that song, Mr. Rivas. And apart from that cordial tone of Mr. Rivas, also that of all the others; in the case of the PSOE, that of Mr. Álvarez Martínez, that of Alexandra Fernández, that of Martín Fernández Prado -- who is no longer, has other responsibilities-- and Marta Novoa, who, of course, took the relief. And so was Mr. Pablo Arangüena, Mr. Rivas, Mrs. Marisol Díaz -- who can't be -- and Mrs. Elena Candia's. I believe that all we pursue is, in the case of the River Fisheries Act, to allow us to protect our rivers and that these are sources of life and sign of identity. And, in the case of the Land Planning Act, improve that path to ensure greater cohesion and improve the quality of life of the Greeks and the Greeks. No more, on this December 22nd, I don't know if we got the lottery, but we -- all of you and us -- if we have a lottery, which is to represent the Greeks and the Greeks, and that has to fill us with satisfaction. No more, Merry Christmas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u72	Well, let's move on to the next point, to the next legislative text. Debates of the European Parliament
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u73	The People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia has the floor of Mr Tellado Filgueira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u74	Thank you, President. We have tabled the proposal for an administrative simplification law and support for Galicia's economic reactivation, a document which was jointly worked out by the People's Parliamentary Group in collaboration with the Government of Galicia. We start from the obvious consideration that we are at a tremendously exceptional moment that requires all the effort and commitment of citizens, but also all the effort and commitment of public administrations. The administration must be a support for the activities of professionals and companies, never a brake, especially at the most complex times, like these we are living in. It is necessary, therefore, for us to change administrative culture, and this bill is an opportunity to do so. The reactivation is, of course, due to the fact that governments promote activity and facilitate administrative procedures so that businesses and professionals can develop their economic activity, to attract new investments to Galicia and to support initiatives by both entrepreneurs and already consolidated projects. This is what the Galician Union has been doing since the beginning of this pandemic with this plan for economic reactivation, which has enabled investments of more than EUR 3,000 million to be mobilized, with the reinforcement of public services, the reactivation of the economy and the protection of employment as fundamental objectives, and also with the Plan for the Rescue of self-employed and microenterprises, which has enabled aid to be developed for a value of EUR 84 million for direct support to the hospitality and self-government. The road map of the Government of Galicia and the Galician People's Party for Economic Reactivation continues with this bill that we present today for its consideration and subsequent initiation of the parliamentary process. The Popular Group presents this bill that has a very clear objective: to generate trust. Trust is fundamental to achieving the reactivation of our economy, to encourage consumption and also to launch a job protection message. To achieve this trust, this law works on three fundamental axes. The first is the axillization of administrative procedures; the second is support and funding directed at companies and professionals; and the third is anticipation, anticipation to take advantage of the opportunity represented by European funds. Agitating administration is probably the main axis of this rule. This law aims to speed up administrative procedures to boost economic activity and the creation of new projects in Galicia. How do you do it? Simplifying bureaucratic procedures, eliminating duplication, saving costs, reducing processing times, simultaneous procedures and reports and encouraging coordination between different administrations. To emphasize that this axillization in no case means reducing guarantees or eliminating protections to other fundamental values, such as environmental, cultural or natural values. The second axis of this law seeks to support business initiatives, especially the younger ones and especially those located on rural borders. It designs financing mechanisms for small businesses, supporting their implementation, it creates a multiple support system for professional companies -- that investment care system, the Office of Doing Business -- and the individualized accompaniment system for large projects. It also provides tax benefits to support rural areas and regulates, for the first time, the concept of tractor projects, in addition to redefining strategic industrial projects and priority business initiatives, which broaden their capacity to absorb more initiatives and more projects. This law anticipates the arrival of European funds, European funds which undoubtedly represent a unique opportunity to minimize the impact of the pandemic and to support companies and professionals to transform our economy, promoting a more sustainable, greener, more digital model. But to take this opportunity, we must be prepared, and therefore anticipation is the third axis of this law. To create a complete mechanism, to create a comprehensive mechanism for planning, programming, management and control of European funds, strengthening the Interdepartmental Commission Next Generation, establishing a technical committee to assist the commission, establishing working groups that will work to simplify the procedures for grants and contracts, homogenizing models and good practices. On the other hand, the law provides for tax benefits for certain business initiatives. I want to highlight several. Deduction of 100 % in costly heritage transmissions, in tax on documented heritage transmissions and legal acts, for the acquisition of real estate found in unpopulated or rural areas; this deduction will be 50 % in the rest of the territory of our community. Deduction of 100 % of the tax burden on documented legal acts, notary documents on capital transmission tax and documented legal acts, for acquisition, grouping, division, segregation, declaration of new work and horizontal division of immovable property in small areas or rural areas; also, the deduction will be 50 % in the rest of our community's territory. The rule also provides for the creation of a series of catalogues by sectors of activities which will collect all administrative processes that can be required for the implementation of new projects, as well as a series of forms, applications templates and documentation associated with the above procedures, which will without any doubt mean a great help and simplification for companies. The standard also includes the creation of the SAI (Investment Care System) for electronic access to all information and documentation specified and for real-time processing status of all such files. Creation of the Office Doing Bussines Galicia as a unit specializing in the accompaniment and processing of these industrial projects characterized as strategic. And in addition, this law proposes the development of an individualized accompaniment system with a network of business support offices. Article 56 regulates the concept of tractor project, of which we have seen talking a lot without being perfectly regulated. These are strategic industrial initiatives that affect various economic sectors to generate growth, employment and competitiveness, acting as a vertebrate of other business initiatives and meeting the requirements for funding by European funds. Establishment of specific financing instruments for e-startup initiatives, entrepreneurs and other small businesses. As I told you, this law will strengthen the Next Generation Commission, as regulated in Article 60, as a planning body, direction and coordination of business initiatives that can be financed from these funds. The technical committee, as regulated in Article 61, will also advise on the evaluation of plans and projects that are examined by the European Commission. And it's all planned and designed so that the day after the adoption of this standard from the Galician Union, we can set up working groups, which will operate immediately in the simplification of subsidy and recruitment procedures, homogenizing models and homogenizing good practices. Finally, this proposal also seeks to encourage participation -- in particular, it is collected in Article 63 -- to provide for three instruments in fund planning. The first, already known, the commission of economic experts, who has been working in our community since last May. The second, the tables of social dialogue, which have been in operation for quite a while. And finally, a working group with the Galega Federation of Municipalities and Provinces. That is, this law counts with the main institutions, with social and economic agents, with representatives of workers and businesses and with municipalities, a broad representation of the Greek society. I'm done. In short, this is a law that continues the work that the Government of Greece started last March, supporting professionals and businesses, reactivating the economy and consolidating tax reductions. A law that bets on a new administrative culture, eliminates obstacles and drives new business projects in Galicia. A law that lowers taxes, creates mechanisms for consulting and accompaniment to companies and regulates the shape of tractor projects indispensable to the definition of Galicia's future. A law that anticipates the arrival of European funds, developing planning, management and control instruments, to take advantage of the opportunity of these funds to transform Galicia's economy into a greener economy, into a more digital economy. A law designed by and for professionals and companies in Greece, which we hope to have the support of the political forces that make up this chamber to initiate its parliamentary process. I come forward with our will, the will of the proposed group, to count on all, to enrich this text among all and to make a law with which this parliament feels fully identified and a law that serves to deal with this triple pandemic: health, economic and social, and that among all, together, we may be able to convert this crisis into an opportunity, the opportunity that we need for the Galician society to move forward in administrative simplification and to advance in the economic reactivation that we all want. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u75	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Round of parliamentary groups. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u76	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The truth is, although I'm not going to go into what is the exact content of what is the bill itself, since we will have time to discuss the articles that are contained here, I understand that the tending hand that just offered us Mr. Tellado to enrich that text will materialise in that they take into account the amendments that the parliamentary groups are going to present, that they can certainly enrich this text, and not as the counsellor told us yesterday, who practically came to tell us that only you are right and so we came here to tell them four nonsense that they don't have much to see. I hope in this case you value the work that we do in opposition, which is a lot, although it has often not been reflected, since the majority group of this Greek parliament, with its usual knee and lack of dialogue, does not take us virtually into account. I hope that changes, and you'll be very welcome to our group. Today, the People's Party Parliamentary Group brings to this House a proposal for a law on administrative simplification and support for the economic reactivation of Galicia, a bill which the Group of the People's Party justifies as urgent -- and I literally read -- "it is important to count on how early a legal document introducing specific support and administrative simplification measures to promote economic recovery, the implementation or strengthening of new companies and the responsible use of the European financing instruments put in place in the current context of the pandemic by coward-19." In fact, I'm the first time I have to point out to the People's Party's Parliamentary Group that administrative simplification, although it may be at this most important moment, is not just a matter that is important now, it's not just a matter that is essential now. It's a subject where you had to have done something in the previous years. The truth is that you are in a hurry now, because, as you well said, the global pandemic statement was March 11th, which forced you to take immediate measures such as confinement and restriction, and therefore had an extremely important and unprecedented impact on the economy, also the economy of our country. I mean, ten months later, when we've passed the first wave, we're supposed to be in the second, and all the health authorities are warning us that we're going to start the third, because the People's Group now understands that there's a lot of rushes and that it's urgent to pass this rule. You register this initiative on December 7, almost ten months after the pandemic statement. The consideration is made today, it will begin its processing we understand that from January next year and will therefore be approved, in the best of cases, in February. It will enter into force, according to its bill, 20 days after its publication. And in addition, for many of the provisions contained in that bill and which seem fundamental to socialists, such as the elaboration of the first ten -- you speak of ten -- catalogues of business initiatives, they set a deadline for their elaboration for ten months. That is, at best, this law will be in force in March 2021 and some of its proposals have time to be ready and to be used because the month of September, the same as the regulation that this law has to develop. Really, if you wanted to bring this law forward in time, you could have done it just as other autonomous communities have already adopted rules in this sense, although not the same, and that we will already come in when we talk about the articulation of the law, although they are not the same, but they do regulate these topics of what you are talking about, at least in your explanatory statement, and with the objective of this administrative simplification to facilitate the implementation of business initiatives in your territory. See, Andalusia approved it in February; Castile-A Mancha, in August; Balearics, in October; Valencia, in April; and Canary Islands, in September; all this year. Anyway... You've been ruling Galicia at this last stage for eleven years with an absolute majority and continuously. It's a great deal of haste to take out this law now when in this last legislation, in the tenth legislation, the legislative production of the German Government, of the absolute majority, was twelve legislative texts, despite the fact that yesterday the councillor of Fairy -- the truth in that spirit of arrogance that he ultimately employs every time he comes to the full of this parliament -- if he was proud to be a very hardworking government and almost accused us of the opposition of little workers. The truth is, to the facts we referred ourselves: four years, twelve legislating texts. In the tenth legislation, with the exception of the Budget Act and the Tax and Administrative Measures Act, in 2016 no laws were passed; in 2017, six; in 2018, none; and in 2019, six. Twelve legislative texts, as I said earlier, all the legislative production of this government that has an absolute majority, although it should be remembered that the Greek Government uses the Law of Tax and Administrative Measures, which we had occasion to debate yesterday, to modify an interconnected amalgam of laws, with a single debate and avoiding the unitary debate for each of the rules that are intended to be modified, thus modifying in some cases to thirty-three laws in a single process. Since then, four years, twelve laws, and now they have a lot of urgency to draw certain legislative texts. They must be ashamed of the legislative production they had in their previous legislation. You bring a bill that President Feijóo has announced as a rule that wants to make the administration of Galicia the most agile in the last forty years, stating that administrative processing cannot be a problem, but it must be legal accompaniment to companies so that they can safely be installed in the territorial field. The truth is it's a little bit of grace too, abounding in what I've exposed before, which speaks of the forty years, when thirty-three years of those forty years has been ruling the People's Party and it turns out that administrative simplification shouldn't have been a priority all this time, although it's also true that I'm going to nude it further in my exhibition. But in any case, in a hurry they didn't seem to be in a hurry, since business deployment in our country is one of the great failures of the Feijóo Government in Galicia's board for the past eleven years and it was a necessity already before the time of the cowardice. And it's true that you yourself in your explanatory statement are amended, because they say, "Every crisis is an opportunity to change public policies that over the years have manifested an inertia of resistance to change and that in some cases have curbed growth." So they make an amendment to their laws, to which you approve with most of them, because we don't have that capacity, because they don't even consider us when we present amendments. The truth is, we'd also like to know -- maybe you answer us later -- why they bring a bill instead of bringing a bill. Is it because they avoid certain reports? For example, we would like to have a report from the ESC, because I remind you that the ESC is an advisory body of the Galician Union and that Article 5 sets out its functions, and among others says: "They are mandatory opinions on draft laws, draft legislative decrees and general or sectoral plans governing socio-economic matters directly linked to Galician economic and social development." I suppose you, just like when you bring the Law on tax and administrative measures, understand that this is not a matter that has nothing to do with and is not linked to Galicia's economic or social development, and that is why you once again omit this report which the Socialists understand to be subjective. They don't have a report from the Galician Juridical Council, either, and I wonder if they have a report, at least a pact with the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, since they also regulate matters that are of municipal competence. Or do you want to once again put more duties on the Greek municipalities, evidently without any resources, but if you put more duties on them instead of assuming your skills? Anyway, it's not defensive, when you have absolute majority to get these laws ahead of you, that you consider this procedure. You bring a bill that in your own explanatory statement tells us that "this law aims to achieve that balance, avoiding duplication and overlaps in the procedures that are competing, reducing delays in the issuance of reports, always complex, which aim to protect a public good, agitating the necessary procedures for the development of an enterprise initiative that tries to create wealth and employment." And we agree, we fully agree with what you expose here, but it's just that, Mr. Tellado, that's what they already stated in Law 14/2013, of rationalization of the autonomic public sector -- it doesn't give me time to read it, but then I'll tell you something -- ; in Law 9/2013, of Galicia's economic entrepreneurship and competitiveness, adopted also with its absolute majority; and also in the Law on the Promotion of the Implementation of Entrepreneurship Initiatives in Galicia, which has been approved...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u77	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u78	- Yes, I'm done now, Mr. President. I mean, in three laws they talked about the same subject, which they didn't apply, that they modified about three and four times, in some cases even using the Law of Tax and Administrative Measures, and now they bring for the fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh time a law that aims to agitate... yes, yes. [[Murmurs.]] Well, let's hope they take us into account, because those where they didn't take us into consideration see that they weren't effective and they didn't serve for the end that they were fulfilled. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Keep in mind the opposition, that we often have interesting things that help the good of all the Greeks and all the Greeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u80	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. As a previous question, I wanted to welcome from here the acquittal of twelve Greek activists, who were marked for five years by independence and who have just been acquitted after a five-year process that sought to criminalize ideas. [[Applause]] And I already announce the vote against the Galego Nationalist Block to this law, which, disguised as administrative axillization, is in fact a democratic atrocity, a grip on this parliament and the final embrace of the Union and the People's Party to the absolute economic and industrial deregulation. It's the free bar to give away our natural resources -- yes, yes -- the large investment funds and leave the Galician society with less and less tools in front of a predator model and the service of Ibex 35. That's what this law is, Mr. Tellado, as much as he denies it with his head. [[Applause]] And look, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, to spend so much time announcing it, this law does not stand, either in the proceedings or in the title or in the justification, or much less in the concretion of the articulated; it does not save a coma. Technically and legally it's a mess, but it's politically unacceptable. The title is already a distraction maneuver, and you did not disappoint, it was on the same line. No central axis, no central axis, Mr. Tellado. Administrative axillization is used in this law as an alibi, because what you do is practically the administrative dissolution. In the financial crisis the right has embraced a strategy of public slimming; we see it in health, in education and in other sectors, and now what you want is to continue with that offensive and go to the public administration skeleton with measures and subterfuges to replace it with private bodies. Already the justification for the urgency, it's in trouble, the justification for the urgency, the spokeswoman of the People's Party, because they use cowardice and economic recovery as the excuse for everything. The only truth they say in the justification for urgency is that, of course, they speak of the responsible use of European financing instruments, and that is why we have to infer that they recognize that they are not responsible. Of course they weren't responsible! Yesterday even 1.4 billion euros from the European Union were not executed by the Galician Union. Yes, they're irresponsible, but what this law proposes is not going to make them more responsible or put solutions to these problems, but quite the opposite. And you have your nose that urgency, that appeal to the will to have all and all, Mr Tellado, when you do what you are doing is parliamentary filibusterism for an express procedure, for an express procedure in ten minutes so that we have to position ourselves here, in a very precise time frame, also after amendments, about nothing more and nothing less than seventy-four articles, six additional provisions, four transitional provisions, one derogation and twelve last ones, which modify twelve laws of all kinds again -- as if it were a law of accompaniment but the great -- of the heritage and domestic trade, passing by the wind or the tax framework. Of course, this parliamentary procedure is indecent, it's a coat of hair, it's to put Parliament to the service that the Government is going through; it's just that. Repeat the modus operandi they have already practiced with the law of first predation, in that first season of that great plot of the People's Party serving Ibex 35. An express processing. So they steal public participation, they steal consultations from the sectors involved, they escape that report from the Economic and Social Council and others, and they do this this way because they wouldn't even support the explanatory statement, which you've read about in your intervention, because they also paint a reality in which before the coronavirus in Galicia everything would go great. Everything was wonderful, a shoot-in growth, when the same report from the Economic and Social Council on 2019 pointed out already obvious symptoms of slowing down the economy, and if anything we saw in this crisis was that growth is healthy, nothing, Mr Tellado, but there were important problems that must be solved, but that this law obviously does not facilitate the way or cover up the previous failure. The only thing they do in that law, in the intervention you've had here, is speech. For example, in the explanatory statement, they say that this law will prioritize those sectors most damaged by cowardice, such as youth. How many proposals for youth employment are there in that law? Zero, zero potato, Mr. Tellado. That is a good example to see that this law is the failure of the People's Party by planning, like each legislation, a new law of administrative and economic updating. You see they don't do it very well, because it's: option A, or they do things wrong; option B, they lie and it's a Trojan horse to get us other debates in the back door; or C, both are right. Not to mention that then, in every accompanying law, they continue to change, and that you are the Government of the Legal Insecurity, and they will continue to be with this remake of the law of depredation or the law of depredation bis. And of course, the problem is that the second parts were never good, and we also see it here. It does not solve at all the problems of bureaucracy and administrative saturation, because you, the same ones that in eleven years were unable to make the Igape a useful tool for this country, now create another chiringuit, to see if this one goes. You guys, who did the Doing Business shawl blackmailing the Greek Town Councils, repeat the same thing. Of course, there are sometimes problems of saturation and excessive bureaucracy, but it's not going to solve this law, because basically what we lack is personal and also well understood digitization, and not how you practice. [[Applause]] This law doesn't correct them, it's that we deny the biggest, because the only thing it does is to shorten deadlines, privatize services without guarantees of independence and impartiality, even endangers public workers and workers, which you have so much said to defend, because they're going to have to assume as if they were their own reports that make private chiringuits, that this can even have legal consequences. It's bad what they say in this law, but it's bad what they don't say anymore, because there's a lot of issues left for later regulations. It is a law, of course, of privatization of public administration in multiple examples, but, above all, it is a red carpet for environmental aggressions and for the free bar of wind. And look, Mr. Tellado, there's a saying that it's worth more than a thousand words. We could say that an image is worth more than a thousand words or that a sentence is worth more than a thousand examples that I can put in this intervention. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantiños shows a document.]] What you don't want to see, this you don't want to look at, is Iribio's greenhouse; I suppose you'd see the sentence that came out last week, I recommend that you read it; in any case, this afternoon we're going to talk about it and I'm going to read a piece of it. [[Murmurs.]] But what that sentence does is to say that the Galician Union is installed in productiveism and that the Galician Union is not guaranteeing environmental conditions and that there are regulatory absences. And this law is going to make them worse, because Chapter II is an environmental attack; that is what you call rationalization of environmental assessment procedures means in fact: everything is worth it!; everything's worth what you mean. An example -- because I suppose Mr. President won't accumulate the time left for you -- : article 31, eliminates guarantees in environmental assessment procedures. You repeated something here that appears in the introduction of the law, and I have to tell you is that non-small excuse, manifest accusation; for if you self-justify that no environmental proceedings will escape, you just need to see that to go and find them. [[Applause]] And chapter III, as it used to be, can be summed up in what is the free bar for the wind sector. There is even some article -- like 50 -- where they limit and eliminate public information processes, and that reflects that what you said here is false. Or as serious questions as taking advantage of a last disposition to put the Natura Network's master plan to the service of the needs of the new wind map, which will basically be the whole of Galicia. I mean, they don't put a windmill here in the middle of the hemicycle because they don't take it; otherwise they'd be able to do it too. Of course, the Magos kings at this Christmas should take all the coal they find to San Caetano, because this project and its way of handling deserve no other question. This law also, besides, mind, mind in its objectives. They're talking about proposals for quality employment, closing productive cycles and adding value; not a single strategic line to favor that. As much as they disguise another question, what they do is to embrace the green discourse in theory to introduce a Trojan horse to our country. And they also sink into the anti-democratic management line of everything that has to do with European funds. That is, you retroactively put here on your paper that commission that is basically the Board of Boards and the Chief Executive Officer of Budget Planning and give you the rank of law, to see if that's how much better, when Title V does it is to give the Board of Boards broad to do what they want. [[Applause]] They're so cynical that they even introduce an article, 63, of dialogue with the Fegamp when they haven't negotiated it with the Fegamp, they haven't negotiated it with the municipalities, and they have their noses to introduce it. And the end of the indecency is to seek to give legal status to that self-denominated social dialogue which constituted the Galician Union outside the real forum for social dialogue, which is the ESC, unique and exclusively because they do not like the IGC to be the majority union of this country, unique and exclusively. [[Applause]] Anyway, there would be a lot of issues left in the paint shop, but basically, this is a bad law for our country, it's a law that doesn't comply with what it says and it's at the service of great transnational capital. That's why we ask them today to withdraw it. If there is such a will to dialogue and to sit down and work with parliamentary groups, if that's the real will...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u81	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u82	...withdraw this law and we work to make another project. And I'm done too -- and with this I really end, Mr. President -- with a warning. This is a bad law, with a bad procedure, which they bring here explicitly to prevent there from having a social debate and knowing what you want to do. But I also tell you: there is outside this parliament a demanding society, a society that rebel against the mine of Touro, Corcoesto, The Iribio, against the closure of the Parish of Verín and against many injustices that have violated social rights...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u83	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u84	...and collectives. And so there will be a civil society that answers each of the aggressions that this bill will have as a result, if it goes on. And, of course, Mr. Tellado, we'll be there too...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u86	...on the side of the needs of this country and against this project clearly abusive and dictatorial.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u87	Thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u88	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u89	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u90	Thank you, President. It must be seen that little by little it led nationalism to the face of moderation that Mrs. Ana Pontón was trying to brag about during the election campaign and in the first weeks of this legislation. But scratches a little and in the end comes the decimonic nationalism of always, against everything, for nothing, never helping. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] That's the argumental line of decimonic nationalism that Mrs. Ana Pontón represents today. I will begin by thanking the tone of the intervention of the Socialist Party's spokesman, although we do not agree with many of the issues we have said but in the need for a joint line of work, which is the hand that we hold for the debate of this Act of administrative simplification and economic reactivation. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, you can't criticize us for legislate and not legislate at the same time; either we legislate a lot or we don't legislate a thing. The truth is that we legislate all this time with successive laws, adapted to the reality of every moment. We did so in 2013 with the Law on the Rationalization of the Public Sector, we made it in 2013 with the Law on Entrepreneurship and Economic Competitiveness of Galicia and made it in 2017 with the Law on the Promotion and Implementation of Entrepreneurship Initiatives; by the way, laws that voted against majority opposition parties. [[Murmurs.]] Therefore, all hands tended, but you never cooperate at all. We are criticized as being the People's Parliamentary Group for presenting this bill, as if we did not have the right to present initiatives as a majority group of this chamber. We have a right not because the opposition groups give us but because the Greeks give us their vote and they recognize the Statute of Self-Government and the Rules of Procedure of this chamber, they put themselves in line. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] That's the reality, we don't have to ask them permission to bring a bill; and if they like it, well, and if they don't like it, too. A BNG takes the load off. Mrs. Pontón's kind ways are gone. It's normal, the BNG can take his face off, he took the Socialist Party of Pedro Sánchez. The BNG of Ana Pontón doesn't need to keep any farce, because the Socialist Party laughed at you with that pact of Ana and Adriana which is wet paper. You don't defend Galicia, you're the only one who defends is the interest of your municipal groups where they lost their elections and supporting the Socialist Party gets some concelery. [[Murmurs.]] That's the only thing that worries Mrs. Ana Pontón's Galego Nationalist Block, that's the reality. Even those kind ways that he sometimes shows are able to conceal the radicality of the Galician Nationalist Block with that speech of the spolian, of the depredation, of colonialism, which in the end are no more than coverts to hide that obstructionist nationalism ever, that the Greeks have refused over and over again for forty years. [[Murmurs.]] That's the reality. [[Applause]] Look, we can either count on you or we can't count on you. What we have of course is that we have a commitment to the Greeks, which on July 12 spoke loud and clear and demanded a single government and a united government to deal with a pandemic. Do you wonder what the urgency of this law is? It's a pandemic, a health, economic and social pandemic that you show absolute insensitivity, you give them everything. Its sceneration is part of a party's path sheet that, despite the pandemic, will continue to oppose. [[Murmurs.]] Do you know what's going on? That in the street people ask us unity, determination and determination. And we can count on you or without you, but we have clear where we want to go, which is to get out of this economic crisis and this social crisis. We can do it faster if you're with us. Mrs. Pontón has already told us with her head that she is not willing to support the Government at all. And you know what happens? What if they are not willing to support now, when are they going to support the Government of Galicia? You don't care much about Galicia. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Our priority is to continue working on the administrative simplification and economic reactivation of Galicia to get stronger, but really stronger, not how the Government of Spain propagates. I understand the unrest of the Galego Nationalist Block party because they feel deceived by the Government of Spain. Do you know what's going on? That you are complicit in that government that punishes Galicia and that label will not be able to remove it from above or for another 40 years that you have spent in the opposition. [[Applause]] We will continue to work for the economic revival of Galicia and for the Government and the Greek institutions to support all economic activities that generate employment and well-being. You keep on in your fights, squabbling, Mr. Knight with Mrs. Pontón, Mrs. Pontón with Mr. Caballero. We're gonna keep working for Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] If you want to work for Galicia, go up to the car and work on this bill, which with you or without you will start your parliamentary processing. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u91	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u92	We shall vote on the legislative texts. We begin by voting on the amendments to the Ditame drawn up by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the Galician Continental Fisheries Act. We begin by voting together on the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We vote. Joint vote on the amendments of the Socialist Group of Galicia to Ditam, drawn up by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the draft Continental Fisheries Act of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u93	We are now voting for amendments to the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block of Wales. We vote. Joint vote on G.P.'s amendments to the Galician Nationalist Bloc to Ditam, drawn up by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on Galicia's Continental Fisheries Bill. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u94	We are now voting on the Commission's statement. We vote. Ditame vote, drawn up by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the Galician Continental Fisheries Act. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 33. The voting is positive. Accordingly, the Galician Continental Fisheries Act is approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u95	We are now voting on the amendments to the Ditame drawn up by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the draft law on the management of Galician territory. We vote on the amendments together. We begin by voting on amendments from the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We vote. Joint vote on the amendments of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia to Ditame, drawn up by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the draft law on the management of Galician territory. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u96	We are now voting for amendments to the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block of Wales. Joint vote of G.P.'s amendments to the Galician Nationalist Bloc to Ditame, drawn up by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the draft law on the management of Galician territory. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u97	We now vote for the committee's ruling. We vote. Ditame's vote, drawn up by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the draft law on the management of Galician territory. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 33. The voting is positive. Accordingly, the Law on the Management of the Territory of Galicia is approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u98	We are now voting on the proposed legislation of the Galician People's Parliamentary Group for Administrative Simplification and support for the economic reactivation of Galicia. We vote. Vote on the proposal for a law, the People's Party of Galicia, for administrative simplification and support for the economic reactivation of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 19; abstentions, 14. The voting is positive. Therefore, this bill is taken into consideration. Change in the development of the plenary session
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u99	The votes have ended here and we continue to change the agenda. Now we are going to debate two motions, as has already been commented on by the groups. motion by G. P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres, on the demands to be made by the Greek Government to the Central Government, as well as the actions to be carried out in connection with the healing of the rivers
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u100	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion, Mr Bará has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u101	Good morning. I wanted, in case you didn't make it clear in Noa Presas's intervention -- which I suppose is -- to make it clear to the People's Party and Mr. Tellado that Ana Pontón's BNG is going to plant them in front of the police and the depredation of this country and the projects and laws that come teledirected from Madrid. Moreover, this was the historic role of nationalism: to defend the interests of the country. [[Applause]] And German nationalism paid for that in 1936. Not for a civil war, as the President of Parliament said yesterday, for a military coup he killed, which massacred the best in this country. That was nationalism, that's nationalism where we look at ourselves and what we claim and represent here. [[Applause]] Before we get into today's topic -- sanitation and stream regeneration -- we also want to take advantage of this forum to denounce the cuts imposed on the Welsh fishing fleet last week and, what's worse, the board's resignation and submission speech in the voice of its fishing advisor, the Sea -- to which we want, by the way, a prompt recovery --. How is it possible for the highest representative of the German Government to show that resignation, that submission, and say what to do are cuts of sailors, seafarers' coupons! What you have to do is plant yourself, defend the interests of this country, the sea of this country, don't get on your knees, just as the fishing advisor did. [[Applause]] With regard to the sanitation and the regeneration of rivers, the main conclusion that we have reached in analyzing this issue is the failure of the policies that have been carried out over the last few decades. And if it wasn't clear, they ended up recognizing you in this document, which I don't know if you can call it study, report or approach -- as you call it -- and who sent us to the Reactivation Commission, and who you allegedly sent it to the State Government and also to the European Union for the next funding period. Well, the truth is we can say that, with the figures you put here, with the amounts you put here, with the definition you put here for the projects, it's a cutre document. But they have come to recognize the failure of cement policies, fibrosis policies, PVC policies, infrastructures; to build by building without any kind of rationality, without any kind of planning and without any kind of analysis of the needs of the territory. It's just that there were money, there were subsidies, there were funding and there were to put pipes, but no real planning was made. And they end up recognizing here all the deficiencies, the inefficiencies, the deficiencies that our sanitation networks have, and also our EDARs, the EDARs -- whether municipal management or autonomous management -- that were built with projects driven and promoted by the Galician Union, and therefore the need to completely review the conception of water management in this country. First of all, we have to question all the facts, critically review everything that has been done. Secondly, we have to count on the fundamental role of research, knowledge and science. Thirdly, the relationship with the environment, with the ecosystem, with the rivers, with the rivers, with the wetlands, with the marshes -- finally, with all those elements that are fundamental to life. There is, therefore, to put a stop to the landings in the rivers, as is still happening in the river Vigo with projects to stop from the port of Vigo; for example, in Bouzas and other areas of the river of Vigo. Public domain lands must also be returned to the public. We must recover once and for all the marshes of Lourizán and cast the Cence out of the river Pontevedra. We have to put an end to this franchise, legalized and extended occupation -- by the People's Party of Mr. Raxoi -- or Rajoy -- in 2016. [[Applause]] And you have to stop understanding the sea and the laughs like dumplings where you can throw away everything: stuff of all kinds, plastics, also the dredging mud. We must also definitely put an end to that dump near the island of Salvora, which must cease to be the storehouse of waste, of waste, of the dredging muds of all rivers and of all ports. Because they're toxic elements that need to be treated on earth. Finally, we have to evaluate, we have to review, we have to correct, we have to redefine everything that has to do with the human, urban, urban, industrial and institutional relationship of all institutions with these ecosystems. And, look, in the past we asked them questions, and today we have to make proposals. And the first proposal -- which we insist on and which we think is fundamental -- is that we have to have all the competences related to the sea and the coast. And that's why in our motion we propose that Galicia have decision-making capacity on all these aspects: about watersheds -- it doesn't make sense that we only manage watersheds on the coast -- ; about oceanographic research -- which is fundamental to knowing reality -- about ports of general interest; and about the coasts and the management of the coast. And we have to do it from here, not from an office in Madrid where they've never seen a transmallo, they've never seen a nose. They don't know what that is. How could they decide and govern on these issues? But, of course, that's why you have to break with all the synergies, with all the dependencies, with all the submissions to Madrid that led you not to claim a single competition when you put it in your program in 2009 on all these subjects and many more. You have to assume once you're the German Government, I'm not a manager. I'm not a terminal at the service of the great economic powers of Madrid that manage them, either from Genoa or from Moncloa, according to the touch. Secondly, the second proposal is the need for an integral -- non-partial -- approach in the management of rivers and rivers. You can't do one thing from Infrastructure, another from Environment -- sometimes the opposite -- and another from the sea. There has to be an integral management counting on the role of knowledge and research of scientific centers, and also on the collaboration and participation of all administrations, and taking into account all the functions -- as we have told them -- that they fulfill the rivers and rivers. The third proposal has to do with the infrastructure. And the first thing to do here is a deep review of everything. You say you've invested more than 1,100 million euros in the rivers. Well, if they did, a lot of things made them wrong. And there are the facts, the reality, the pollution, the amount of dumping that there is, the amount of pollution that is in all the rivers of Galicia. And so there's a need to do an audit on all investments, also on EDARs. Finally, an audit and research must be conducted on the Galicia-Costa hydrological plan and a consensus proposal for the next plan. We have to explain, for example, what were the more than 500 million you collected as water cannon. Because, moreover, they received large amounts of European funds. And the reality is what it is, you come to recognize it in this report. They end up acknowledging that there's a real mess. We're also proposing a study, an analysis and a research on coronations, and a protocol on something as fundamental as the clearing of coronations, because it's shown that the drop in salinity -- for example in the banks of the Ulla -- causes a great mortality in the shellfish. And, finally, we also propose the reversal of concessions, but acting as a government that defends the interests of the country and the rivers, not how it has just done the waters of Galicia with the River Verdugo, with the Press of Hell, which have left the proceedings to favour the interests of Naturgy. They let the deadline pass and that prevented the reversal and expiry of the concession. Look, it's clear -- clearer than water -- for whom you rule. If this isn't prevarication, the truth is it's been rocking the pole. He went by rocking the pole! [[Applause]] And I'm done coming back to the beginning. We have to radically change the model. The model must be based on the participation of the whole society and institutions. It must also be based on the co-responsibility of all agents, of all sectors, of persons and institutions. And it has to be based on planning, study, knowledge, that all those advanced, high-level scientific entities that we have in the country, and also to make a comprehensive action plan for sanitation, regeneration and improving the ecological and productive capacity of our rivers. Finally, agreements, a great deal, a great pact of country, a big bet from the country in defense of our sea, our coast, our rivers, our river ecosystems, our marshes, our wetlands. It's going a lot to do with this, it's going to be life and the future to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u102	Thank you, Mr Bará. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Aranguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u103	Thank you, Mr. President. There has been plenty of water under the bridges since several MEPs visited Galicia in February 2013 to control the clearance of the Galician rivers. They concluded that several areas of our rivers were in grave danger if no action was taken. And they follow it, marked by the laughter of Pontevedra, Arousa, Burgo, Girl or Ferrol. And by the end of 2014, the European Commission announced that it would denounce Spain -- and therefore Galicia -- before the European Union's Court of Justice because there was no guarantee of good treatment of urban waste water in various areas due to the failure of a proper treatment system and the risk to public health. Then the millionth penalty from the European Union's Court of Justice came, globally a coercive fine of EUR 10.9 million for each six-month delay and a 12-million penalty for failing to comply with Community sanitation rules because of the lack of waste treatment -- among other places, at various points in Galicia --. No one escapes from the fact that this disaster has anything to do with the legacy that has left the Rajoy Government and with the very poor management of the Greek Government in the matter of sewage purification. The state will impact on the autonomous communities responsible for non-compliance those sanctions, not by whimsical or because there is no kind of central government conspiracy against Galicia -- as some would defend, taking the hair to citizenship -- but simply because it is the State's obligation within its powers. In view of this situation, the Government of the State is finalizing the National Plan for Debug, Sanitation, Efficiency, Saving and Re-use, with an estimated investment of about EUR 10 billion over the next few years. Two thirds of these actions would correspond to the autonomous communities and one third to the state and the municipalities. He's now in consultation and public information; therefore, his departure is imminent ahead. I mean, unlike Rajoy's governments -- that they could do it and they didn't -- the current progressive government is taking this bull very hard by its horn. And the situation in Galicia is certainly worrisome, since twenty years after the adoption of the Water Framework Directive -- and hundreds of hundreds and hundreds of millions of European funds later -- the situation of pollution of the rivers and rivers in Galicia is worrying, finding us as a whole far from reaching the targets set by the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, the rivers of Galicia are a unique and highly valued ecosystem, a framework that makes up our culture and identity, a source of life but also of aquatic and seafood wealth, chronically diminished by pollution. Something similar can be said of the rivers of Galicia, once river fishing havens that are now severely diminished, to the point that fishing licences have been reduced by about half in the last decade -- as we said a moment ago --. I myself asked you at Commission 2nd to the Galician Summit if the Government of Galicia is going to implement an integral plan for the regeneration of the rivers and rivers of Galicia for this legislation 2020-2024. We had no answer. We also asked him how he planned to reduce the levels of pollution in the rivers and rivers of Galicia to Junta, and we didn't have a response either. And Galicia has received vast amounts of European funds, ingenious!, to cope with the sanitation of its waters in recent decades. The Water Framework Directive has been in force since 2000. It's been 20 years! It is unacceptable, unacceptable and unacceptable that the country that makes the flag of its marine, fish and aquaculture wealth allows pollution not to go any less but, on the contrary, in many cases it goes more. It's absolutely defining how you act that, as far as you are concerned -- as is the fight against pollution -- it's so much to do and say that everything is going well, as they're dedicated to mounting completely fictitious and set-up controversy and misleading the sea sector on the account of article 18 of the Climate Change Act. Ladies and gentlemen, our water situation is bad and does not tend to improve substantially or significantly. By way of example, although reality shows that Galician waters do not detect more than one part of the spills into rivers and rivers, that organism detected in 2019 a total of 1,575 spills on the Galician coast, 21.5% more than a lustro, when it was 1,296. Of the detected, 253 exceeded the allowed contaminant load and 57 others had to be investigated for having an impact on the contour, although not exceeding the allowed values. In this statistics stand out the rivers of Arousa, Muros-Noia and Vigo, with 60, 45 and 30 points respectively with microbiological load or toxic chemistry; as well as Ferrol, with 29 outbreaks; Ares-Betanzos, with 19; and Pontevedra, with 18. Just to give us an idea of what we're talking about, let's go to Testal Beach in Noia -- where you rule --. She's not fit for the bathroom, but she's fit, you know, for the shellfish, despite the fact that the very short distance, in the same rhyme, the waste waters of the girl -- that she has a debugger that doesn't work -- if they pour almost directly without debugging the rhino, directly to the creek, the dog! You go around there, if you think it's appropriate, and you smell the scent of the failure of commitment to the People's Party Galicia. You smell in Noia the scent of the abysmal distance between Galicia's official propaganda and the royal Galician citizenship. And the problem of pollution is not only an environmental problem, but an economic and social problem. In the stream of the Coruña, nearly 2,000 people came to sea. Today there's practically no shellfish. In Noia, for example, another example, 3,000 people have come to seams -- twice as much as they do today --. Less than a decade ago, in Ferrol's creek more than 600 people were mascading. Today Ferrol's laugh can't keep up with the activity of 60 people, who are authentically desperate. There is no need to say that, unlike mining -- by setting an example -- that has a deadline for its exploitation, or economic activities like Alcoa's, that in their decisions they can unfortunately contemplate relocation, marine activity is fully sustainable over time, it is not dislocationable, and it is also intensive in labour, especially women's labour. In other words, the seafood economy is an absolutely strategic sector for Galicia and any investment that is made in our rivers is highly productive investment. And despite your full competence in combating pollution, coastal management, the environment, fishing, aquaculture, shellfish, and despite your receiving hundreds and hundreds of millions of European funds, they are unable to be up to a matter that should be absolutely priority for Galicia, in a matter of a highly strategic nature, both from an economic and environmental and tourist point of view. And I set as an example the regeneration of the Coruña creek, a demand from the entire region that's been on the table for 20 years. And Feijóo's Board and Rajoy's Government were seven years old to boost the sanitation of the river and they didn't. They haven't done anything in seven years. It's going to be a socialist government that drives that project, which is already approved and endowed with 24 million by 2021 and 24 by 2022 in anticipation. It's 48 million euros, which is exactly the total cost of the project. The Galician Union has not put on or will put a penny of euro on its funds to clean up Burgo's stream. All the funds will be from the state and the Europeans, not a penny of euro when all the powers over the river, such as seafood and aquaculture, coastal management, the environment, etc., are theirs, except for the fight against pollution, which is shared with the state! Even though the competition is yours, Junta doesn't put a euro on it. And, speaking of competences, I will say, to conclude, that the PSdEG is willing to support, if the vote is done separately, all and every aspect of the BNG proposal except for the transfer of competences, i.e. point 1, taking into account that there is no study that advises or endorses the transfer of these competences. Transferring by transfer seems to us to be a certain irresponsibility, which, by the way, do not carry out the most advanced federal states. And I would like to point out to you that some of the skills they claim have been transferred from very many -- for example, coastal management -- in the Galician Statute. And I use -- and I end -- to extend my Christmas congratulations to the rest of the Popular Parliamentary Group, except for the Vox section, which I don't think it deserves. I sincerely wish to congratulate Mr. Balsairo, who has asked me to extend his congratulations. I congratulate him very specifically because he also helped me with the title "Coruña Fixer", which I like very much. And by the way, of course, I also extend my congratulations to the Socialist Group -- as it could be no less -- and also to the Group of the Galician Nationalist Block. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u104	Thank you very much. Congratulations, everyone. All of you, all of you! [[Murmurs.]] All congratulated, we don't get into controversy. [[Murmurs.]] All congratulated! That's what I understood. All of them, all of them. I feel congratulated. All congratulated. [[One person from the House services comes to disinfect the stage.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Calvo Pouso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u105	Good morning, President. Ladies and gentlemen. The truth is, the megalomania of the Block has no limits on any of its interventions. We've seen it in the letter to the Magi who wrote to their central government partners, and we've seen the results as well. In that Christmas spirit of what we've been talking about today in all the speeches, Mr Bará is standing here and asking for everything, without limits, without consistency at times -- from my point of view -- no responsibility. Ask for transfers of all kinds, a mix of the most varied. He's just been asking for the Christmas lottery number. If I asked, I wish I'd asked for what you sold me for. But, jokes aside, the truth is, you're wrong again, Mr. Bará. They're wrong again at the door they call. Supply, sanitation and debugging skills are municipal. And I know that the spokesman of the Socialist Party didn't understand it either. I don't know if they don't understand it or they don't want to understand it, to do some reading. In any case, apart from this question, it's not incompatible with the collaboration of the Galician Union. And you see that this motion comes with the most committed autonomic government of history in improving the quality of the water masses, even though some try to move the opposite. So, thank you, Mr Bará, for allowing us to give you some information in this debate that I think will serve you for the following interventions. The Galician Union, through the Infrastructure and Mobility Council, has invested in Galicia since 2009 EUR 1,100 million in sanitation and supply -- in sanitation, 350 works in 160 municipalities; in supply, 300 performances in 186 municipalities --. It's been built in 45 new debuggers. Water quality has improved, although some try to rewrite reality. And in all the rivers if they made investments, in all the rivers if they made investments! In recent years, we know that 90% of urban agglomerations comply with European directives. But, look, you come here and you come to ask again a lot of things that you're already doing to Galician Union -- I repeat, and it's important, Mr. Bará -- not to your competition. The Galician board prepares local sanitation plans to know in-depth the needs of action in each municipality -- in the area of sanitation and also in the supply --. I'll give you some data. In the Arousa River, 61 million euros -- in the EDAR of Ribeira; the Corrubed Debugger; the Grave Debugger and the Ribadumia Debugger --. Ría do Burgo, 100 million euros, 100 million euros, voicer of the Socialist Party! He said Junta didn't invest anything in the sanitation of Burgo's creek. No, Junta has so far invested 100 million euros. Those who haven't invested anything until now were the socialist governments in Madrid, which is clear to you. In the Burgo River there were 100 million euros -- in the Bens Debugger and in its emissary, in the storm tank of Santa Cruz, pumps of the Temple and the Passage --. Ría de Cee, Corcubion and Camariñas, 10 million euros -- EDAR of Camariñas, EDAR of Ponte do Porto, sanitation of Fisterra and Corcubion --. Ría de Muros, 40 million euros -- EDAR collectors, general collectors of Esteiro, of Tal, improvements in Noia and Porto do Son --. Ría de Vigo, 130 million euros -- EDAR do Lagares, EDAR de Baiona, debugger of Vilalba and Soutomaior --. Ferrol ría, 122 million euros -- the last one is about to end this month coming in --. High rías, 44 million euros -- EDAR of Ribadeo, EDAR of Foz, improvements in Burela --. Ria de Ares-Betanzos, 17 million euros -- sanitation in Sada; Plan Director of Sanitation of the Town Hall of Betanzos, improvement of sanitation and purification of Paderne, improvement of service in Pontedeme and Cabanas --. So, as far as the Galician Union is concerned, even though it doesn't have these powers, there's a collaboration, but it's always a collaboration. And the data is up there on the table. The duties are done, and I believe that, thinking about the future, we have even committed in these same budgets an appropriation of five million euros for a public society for the management of the water cycle. Let's hope it's at least shared or supported by you. I think you should talk to your government partners about what's left to do -- that's what you still have to do -- you should talk to your government partners. They should talk to their government partners or to those municipalities that, despite their skills, do not participate in management. For example, with someone you know well, like Pontevedra. He was talking about the seafood banks. Look, during these years, he's been heavily invested in recovering seafood banks. They recovered 13.5 million square meters for seafood banks. More than 9 million euros are being invested in 267 projects run by conferres and entities. The Intemar -- fundamental in this debate -- this year increases its budget by 6 % in the budgets of the Union. So I think it's quite contrasted there. And I take advantage, because you said that the advisor said -- on the fund -- that the number of sailors would have to be reduced. Man, I expected this from anyone. But I understood that you were able to understand the retraction of the counsellor's statements. If you have not understood, I ask you to read it, and then you may apologize in the second intervention. Because it remains very clear and -- which is more important -- the sector is very clear who defends the sector in Brussels. You should ask your partners -- your partners, Mr. Bará -- why they were negotiating that way and what they did. Because they are your partners in all governments, in all municipalities and in all deputies where they can. So on this subject you'll understand that you don't have a lot of credibility. And he also talks in this motion about the transfer of competences. Look, the truth is, we have a way of working very differently from what you put forward in this motion. You're used to making that letter to the Magi, to send it to the Socialist Group and there the Socialist Group tells them that it is. They take a picture of their spokesperson with the turnword of the Socialist Party and they're all happy and sell smoke. They're doing theater, as a previous speech said by a spokesperson from the Galician Nationalist Block -- who said that this looked a little bit like theater --. You're in a good move. What happens is that after that letter, those requests and those commitments don't make any sense to them. There's no case for the Socialist Party. And you know what they do -- what's the worst --? Laugh and applaud. And the worst thing is that this is already produced on several occasions, it's not the first time that happens. And yet you keep doing the same; you keep giving the Socialist Group an alibi. There you are! But, having said this, we want to make it clear, firstly, that we continue to claim all and each of the powers that have been claimed under this Parliament's agreement in the past legislation -- in this we have been very little --. We keep claiming the same, we don't take any steps back. More than that, what you guys are talking about, we could even talk about and study some of them. But you'll understand that in this way -- in a motion on the sanitation of the river -- we can't reach an agreement and that's why our negative vote is also ahead of us. I think you must demand a lot of things from the Government in Madrid, you should know. In principle, from that letter they signed you can claim your entire. We keep talking about what we owe ourselves, about the VAT we owe us. In the past legislation, you, who were already a Member like me, encouraged this group and the Government to turn to justice, remember. We continue to demand a fairer model of funding. And we also claim pending infrastructure. Yesterday the Minister of Development came and continues to say today that the AVE will be ready in the year 2021. That's not true. Or, better said, what they're trying to cheat is, because here we're not talking about ending the last stone in the year 2021. We're talking about the fact that in the year 2021 he's not going to travel the train with people in the AVE service between Madrid and Galicia. And that we all know, including those of the Socialist Party, who applaud the minister and keep trying to deceive much of the population. They'll know. But look, Mr Bará, I think we have reached important agreements in this Parliament on competences. And I ask you to speak in another format. Not in a plenary session where budgets are approved, at a time when there are many doubts on the table, and there are many things that are not clear, for example, European funds. You don't go to the Socialist Party to ask you about the European funds, about the criteria. What's more, you and the Socialist Party's municipal groups do is present motions in the municipalities to tell the board that they listen to the councils on the matter of sharing funds. But you know what? From the distribution of funds we know nothing, because the Socialist Party refuses to make any clarifications over and over again. And you're your partner in all the municipalities and in three deputies of the four in Galicia. They're partners everywhere and don't ask them for explanations. Because it is true that since the last elections there has been a curious fact: the BNG is dedicated to asking this Parliamentary Group and the Galician Union what it dares not ask the Socialist Group, who are its partners. Don't stop being curious, but this is a reality, and everybody's checking it out. It's happening day after day. It's over. I'd like you to have the Members in this debate as well. No case of that, he did not make any reference, despite the fact that the deputies -- as you know -- have to attend the provincial councils, especially those who have no resources. I know something from the Crown, I can assure you. And in the Coruña Deputies there are enough funds to make a sanitation plan in those municipalities with few resources. However, you just want the Members to get to be in a chair to be vice presidents and to have your little budget, the budget they leave them. It's for the only one who counts. And before I finish if I'd like to say -- although now there's no longer the spokesman of the Socialist Group -- that, if we have to do a dredging of the Coruña River, it's because for many years -- more than five, ten, fifteen, twenty -- the municipalities, which were competing in sanitation, were turning to that stream without any kind of smell. There was a situation where the Galician Union had to take letters on the matter and the 100 million euros invested in that stream were to avoid the spill points. Now, who ruled for forty years in the suburbs of the Coruña River? The Socialist Party. And by the way that they will make a visit to the Noia creek, I invite the spokesman of the Socialist Party to go to the Monxes' Soprado, where a spokesman of the Socialist Group is dedicated to making pure ferries without any kind of permission, a spokesman of the Socialist Party, in the Government, with a mayor of the Socialist Party -- exBNG -- who knows that and that nothing happens at all. -- ex, I said ex -- it's much closer to the Coruña, much closer to the Coruña... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u106	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u107	...and would give more credibility to be able to talk about parties and attention to the environment. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u108	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the motion's own group, Mr. Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u109	Mr. Calvo, for my part, tell Mrs. Quintana to leave the mark on other occasions, that this is a very serious subject where the work, the life and the future of thousands of people working from the sea is at stake. It's not a matter of making jokes, it's a very serious matter. [[Applause]] With regard to transfers, I am glad that they give me the opportunity to clarify them, spokesmen of the People's Party and the Socialist Party, that we are talking about. Because here they don't seem to know much about what happened and what happened. Look, I just want to remind you that on January 23, 2019 there was a unanimous parliamentary agreement of all the groups in which we agreed to demand for Galicia the highest level of competence, all the competences that have already reached other territories and other communities. So I don't know if you're going back, if you're making a mistake, if you're pointing out what you were before, but the reality is that: we've already approved that. And, besides, another thing, Mr. Calvo: whoever has to claim jurisdiction is not the opposition groups, it's the German Government. It is the German Government who has to take the lead, who has to demand the convening of the Joint Transfer Commission, who has to demand those transfers that are fundamental to manage all those areas, such as the sea, the coast, the coastal management, the watersheds or the oceanographic research centres. [[Applause]] And you disagree in the next sentence after the previous sentence. Because you said, "This is municipal competition." I remind you that the Water Law says it's a shared competition, where the Union has also placed obligations and competences. But is it, in addition, if it's not competition, why do they spend 1,100 million euros? They're recognizing that it's competition, too, because Joine has skills in planning, in management, in management, in cooperation with the municipalities. And that's why he collects more than 500 million euros from the water cannon. For something it will be. You'll have to reinvest them in those performances. Look, one of the big problems we have is exactly what it has to do with planning. I've told you before, that study -- it's called "approximation," which I think is a generous denomination that does -- it's an amendment to the whole of what you've done to Junta over the last ten years. You're acknowledging that there are a lot of deficiencies, that there are a lot of inefficiencies on your system and on your networks. And don't come here to tell me you're planning, because you know how many local sanitation plans they've made? Two laughs, Mr. Calvo. Two laughs! And we have eighteen laughs. Much work remains to be done to the Government of the People's Party! And the other day, we were told by the advisor that they haven't done the Greek Sanitation Plan yet, that it would be that overall, global vision of the situation we have, of all those problems and the search for solutions, that we've already told you not only to build more infrastructures, to bury thousands of miles of pipelines and pipelines. We have to find other solutions, there are. You know perfectly well that there are. And, of course, you're talking about data. I'm going to give you some data from a study, from the only one that has been done, seriously, technical, scientific, from a university in Galicia, in 2016 in the Arousa River -- which wasn't hired by the Galician Board, by the way, but was hired by the confrries and the Mexican Regulatory Council --. You know what that study said? That, with all that million investments made by the Galician Board to improve water quality, on foot seafood -- most female employment -- if you lost 41% of jobs, more than 2,700 jobs lost; that the Berberecho almost disappeared from the rivers of Arousa, Pontevedra and Vigo -- lowered 93% of production -- ; that there is a ban on all the yellow rivers of lead-contamination clock, when it was 20% of production in 2000; that the decline in plum production was 28% and the age of 57%. This is the dramatic reality of the Galician rivers, the loss of productive capacity, the loss of employment and jobs by the policies of the People's Party. And here we came to make a proposal, an alliance of all institutions, of all sectors, of all the Greek people in defense of the sea, of the coast, of the rivers, an alliance and a pact that has to count also on the involvement, the knowledge and knowledge of the scientific institutions and of the Greek universities. And you just told us that no, that they're going to vote against, that they seem too ambitious. But what's this? We don't ask the deputy to do anything! But if we're in the German Parliament! This is not an MP, this is the Parliament of Galicia and we ask the Government of Galicia to govern it!, to make decisions and to bet it really, with this set of integral actions, by our rivers, by our rivers, by our sea, by our coast, by our future. [[Applause]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u110	Thank you. I understand that the question put by Mr Aranguena to separate point 1 from the motion will not accept it. Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] motion by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Pablo Arangüena, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the impact of climate change in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u111	An amendment was tabled by the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u112	To make this motion you have the floor Mr. Aranguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u113	Thank you, Mr. President. I said in my appeal to the Counsellor 15 days ago that he appealed to his reasoning and to his group in a almost supplicant way, because the Socialist Group can do only in relation to this proposal that we bring to Parliament is to ask, because you have the majority to do what they consider and so much do what they consider -- what they basically want -- that you adopted a resolution in the debate of last year's autonomy state to declare climate emergency; a resolution we considered to be cicadaire and talkative, but a resolution that, at least, recognized the need to declare climate emergency. And it turns out we found out with wonder that you didn't even pass that statement by your Government more than a year after being agreed by this parliament. You are neither able nor capable to comply with the resolutions you have been led and voted upon by yourself and adopted by this parliament, which represents Galicia's popular sovereignty. That's their level of coherence and commitment: zero, zero coherence and zero commitment. Despite being approved by this parliament, you refuse to declare the climate emergency. Ladies and gentlemen, we are immersed in the sixth great process of mass extinction of species that has occurred in the biological history of our planet, which dates back to about 4,000 million years ago. Five great mass extinctions in 4,000 million years and we are ill-lucked to be just this particular moment in our history at the sixth great mass extinction. The five previous episodes of mass extinction on Earth have been associated with moments of climate change, and you refuse to declare the climate emergency. The year 2019 was the hottest in history in Europe and the second on the planet, and the last five years were the hottest in our planet's history, but you refuse to declare the climate emergency. And as much as the pandemic we are experiencing at the moment seems of enormous importance -- it is no doubt that it has -- climate change or warming of anthropogenic origin is nowadays, in the whole history of our species, without the slightest amount of doubt, the greatest threat to humanity, insofar as the climate directly or indirectly determines all aspects of our lives, from food production to energy, housing, water, etc., etc., and goes back to the rest of the planetary system, causing the rupture of ecological balances at all levels, loss of biodiversity, fires of unusual intensity and periodicity, extreme climatic phenomena and a long et cetera that will affect Spain and Galicia, as coastal and climate transition zones. But you refuse to declare the climate emergency. A year ago I had the opportunity to attend as representative of the Socialist Group in Congress to COP25 that was held in Madrid, and there I was telling the beginning of Antonio Guterres, the Secretary General of the United Nations -- not a gentleman passing by -- that humanity is consciously destroying the system that serves as our vital support. That destruction affects the poorest, but even the rich can't escape its effects, assuming we're considered to be included in that category -- which is not the case --. More and more frequent natural disasters, loss of crops and decrease in yields, water wars, massive migrations, political instability and a very long and so forth. But you refuse to declare the climate emergency. The positive part of this crisis is that there are the means to fight it and that our country, Galicia, is very well positioned to be vanguarded in this revolution, the difference of the past. We have excellent and unbeatable conditions for renewable energy, knowledge and high motivation as -- as I said and reiterated -- Spain and Galicia will be especially affected by the climate crisis. We are the first country in the world to have a fair transition strategy within the framework of an ambitious integrated energy and climate plan; and we have an Ecological Transition Ministry with a team of recognized prestige -- even though it does not matter -- which is part of a government that takes the problem very seriously, according to the European Union and the United Nations, the difference between you, who refuse to declare the climate emergency. Two weeks ago the Secretary General of the United Nations, Antonio Guterres, said that our planet is broken, that we are in a suicide war with nature and that nature always attacks and does so with more and more force and rage. And he also announced that his central goal next year will be to build a global coalition around the need to reduce emissions to zero. The Paris agreements of the year 2016 intended to limit global warming to less than two degrees with the intention of moving forward to a reduction of it under 1.5 degrees. But those goals tend to be overcome by the reality of country behavior and the progress of science. And predictions are increasingly gloomy about the speed and effects of climate change, as the current projection is in the three additional degrees, and we are going to question our future as a species. But you refuse to declare the climate emergency. We must not lose sight of the fact that climate change is in relation to and is part of the gradual collapse of ecosystems that began to accelerate in the 20th century and which is accelerating much more in the 21st century. Many scientists claim that the pandemic we are suffering today is more of that global ecological imbalance. The Declaration of Climate Emergency is an international movement which aims to ensure that from public institutions the reality of the grave impact of climate change, the urgency of acting against it and, consequently, the commitment to do so; that commitment that you refuse to accept, as they refuse to declare the climate emergency. Ducias from countries and cities are declaring the climate emergency; Spain declared the climate emergency at the beginning of this year; Cataluña, Castela-A Mancha, Aragon, Balearic Islands, Canary Islands, Valencia, Basque Country, Asturias, Murcia, Cantabria, Extremadura, Navarra... are already in the process of declaration or in the vast majority have declared the climate emergency. That is, the practical totality of the autonomous communities -- with some exception, such as Castile and León, Madrid and Andalusia, in the last two cases given the weight of Vox's support in the Government of these communities -- declared the climate emergency. Galicia, the difference of all these communities mentioned above, has been postponed and has not made any movement in that sense, except to remove from the box the Strategy against Climate Change of 2005, from which it has not been remembered in fifteen years -- that they are a whole life in science related to climate change -- which was reworked in 2019, taking advantage of us already in the electoral period, announcing the bomb and dish that Galicia would pioneer in this matter; another of so many advertising strategies of the Greek Government, which seems to believe that climate change, such as the pandemic, is fighting the basis of propaganda. On the other hand, Spain has been counting since 2019 -- in that it is pioneering, since it was the first country in the world to do so -- with a fair transition strategy within the framework of the integrated national energy and climate plan. I insist: the first country not of Europe, but of the world, to have such an instrument. The Government of Spain is making a bet determined by this ecological transition, increasing the budget this year nothing more and nothing less than a 132%. But you refuse to declare the climate emergency. I appeal again to your survival instinct, to your ethics and your reasoning. From the Socialist Group we appeal to the instinct of survival and the reasoning of all those present here, and to the love of all those here present for their descendants, to tackle in a decisive way the huge problem of climate change, making the need for virtue and forceful in a new green economy, taking care of our natural spaces, recovering our forests, regenerating our rivers and rivers, making all public resources available to the process of fair ecological transition and changing even our individual and collective ethics. Time to act isn't tomorrow, it's right now. Get out of the range of climate negationists, get out of Vox, leave the environmental position, and you will suddenly declare the climate emergency. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u114	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u115	Thank you, President. [[Mr. Bará Torres addresses Mr. President.]] If you don't want to set my watch, no problem.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u116	When he starts talking.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u117	Thank you. Well, this debate about the climate emergency, which is sometimes presented as a kind of mantra that will solve everything, seems to us very relevant and very timely to make some kind of reflections on issues that, at best, were moved from focus by this emergency, by this health emergency of the cave pandemic, but which are of the utmost importance, of maximum transcendence. If it weren't for this pandemic, in this month of December, there would be massive mobilizations around the world by the climate crisis, which is, apart from a broader crisis, an environmental crisis, a crisis that threatens the future of planet Earth, the future of humanity. In fact, we're on a countdown, an account against the clock, against the catastrophe that means the rise of temperatures on Earth above 1.5 degrees this century. It must be taken into account that this is a statistical average; that is, the rise will be much higher in some regions of the Earth, in some areas with extreme weather phenomena, with large droughts, with large floods, also with loss of coasts, of water reserves, and with affection to key economic sectors, such as agriculture or fisheries. And you say we're catastrophic. Who are catastropheists, what is a real catastrophe is the policies of the People's Party. You are catastropheists, because they govern and legislate -- as we have just seen -- in the service of large economic groups, because they make laws and administrative processing. We saw him with a very concrete and very small example: the prey of Hell, the leap of Hell, on the River Verdugo; let the deadlines pass to promote the interests of Naturgy. But we see it day after day with lots of processing that are often questioned and thrown down by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, as it recently happened in Sasdonigas and also in the case of the Iribio. And it doesn't happen many times because there aren't people with better economic capacity to deal with these resources. This leads us to a reflection: if you do this with the Natura Network, with the Santiago Way, with areas of special landscape interest, what will you do with the rest? What will they do with the rest now that they're already making a law just so that all of Galicia can be a single wind park? [[Applause]] And look, a second reflection. You want to go through what you're not. Even if the monk looks green and silk, he stays, it's a saying that goes perfectly to you, because as much as they want to go through ecologists, big advocates of green, the fashion of sustainability, the circular economy, the ecological transition, the reality is that what they do is going in the opposite direction. We've told them many times. We can talk about waste policy. They bet on incineration and landfills against the policies to be pursued, which are prevention, recycling and composting. We can talk about forest policy, but they bet on monoculture, on the biouniformity of our mountains and on the industrialization of our mountains. We can also talk about biodiversity policy, which puts us on the tail of the state, on the tail of Europe, as well as natural spaces protected by the Natura Network. And we can talk about mobility, but in all these years they've waged for motorization, with the very serious consequences that this has for the quality of life, for the quality of air, for the life and for the health of people. Anyway, you say one thing, or they seem to say one thing, and they do everything the opposite. It's called an echoosture, it's called green washing... it's called green washing, Mrs. People's Party. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You even go to these peaks of climate assuming that they make pioneering and advanced policies in this matter. They even do, indeed, a Welsh strategy of climate change and energy 2050, which is a real bluff. Just like the plan of operation or the galley strategy of circular economy. They just fall out of their hands! Look, do you know what's the main game you have in the Plan of Operation of the Welsh Strategy for Climate Change and Energy 2050? It's the extinction of fires -- 250 million to extinguish fires by 2023. This is the real policy of the People's Party put in its strategy. Well, I have to say that most of the budget tokens are empty. This is also a clear example of the politics of the People's Party: an empty-page policy. [[Mr. Bará Torres shows some documents.]] [[Applause]] We have made amendments to complete this initiative, to enrich it, to improve it, because we think this strategy is not valid right now, because it is already incomplete and obsolete. It is no good because it was bad at first, but, above all, the European Commission and the Council have just adopted a proposal by the European Parliament to increase the targets for reducing carbon emissions by 2030: up to 55 % of the 40% initially, which was the figure that this Strategy was counting on. So there's nothing but increasing the pace of mitigation and adaptation measures to try to achieve that goal. We have to do another strategy, we have to do it in a participatory way and with real participation. Participation, as you understand it, is publishing in the DOG and making a public exhibition. That's not participation. There has to be a real process of horizontal and vertical participation, but vertical down and up, and not, as you do, up and down, giving orders and taxes. It is essential that this be done, because a strategy has to be based on participation and something that is very important in environmental policy, which is the co-responsibility of all social administrations and sectors. We also propose a commissioner for the climate emergency and the environmental crisis. It seems to us that this is a matter of sufficient importance to ensure that there is a specific delegation of the Government in this matter. We also propose that there be an independent body for evaluation and follow-up of policies to meet the objectives of the Strategy, with an intermediate assessment in 2025, because what is also demonstrated is that many of these plans are not met. Look, the third reflection we want to make here is that they don't face these serious environmental problems with all seriousness and rigour, not those of the future, but those of the present. I'm going to tell you about a question that kills much more than copper, which is air pollution: fine particle contamination, nitrogen dioxide pollution. According to the UN, WHO, the European Commission, the Carlos III Institute's Health School, are dying, for this reason, hundreds of thousands of people a year around the world. According to WHO, there are more than 100 diseases associated with air pollution: cardiovascular pathologies and respiratory diseases, such as asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and respiratory infections, as well as increased dementia, premature births or increased incidence of some types of cancer. This same year, several researches have been published that also related to air pollution with increased mortality from covid-19. Logically, the more affected the respiratory system is and the lungs, the greater incidence and danger may have the contamination and infection by the covid. We're talking about an average of up to 15% increase in mortality from air pollution worldwide. This is a very serious matter. Moreover, it is a matter that can be fought with effective measures from here, from Galicia, from our reality, from our councils and, in addition, it is already being done. It's just about looking at who's doing it right and taking advantage of that experience. Galicia is doing well in Pontevedra. There's a model called "the Pontevedra model," a model of success in the world, which has succeeded in reducing... yes, you'll think of it as a joke and a joke, but it's a model that saves lives, saves lives! That saves lives for them and saves lives! because air pollution has reduced by 60%; and it was not for the cowardly, but for the brave policies approved by the local government. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] This is possible throughout Galicia. Only lack of courage, only lack of courage and only lack of humility; humility to get down from the armchair and meet with the mayor of Pontevedra to know what is being done there and to extend it throughout Galicia, making a Welsh urban agenda 2030 that this country needs. That's to save lives -- that's enough -- to save hundreds of lives, thousands of lives in this country. We have to do it now! You can't wait until 2030. We have to do it now! We play a lot on this. One last reflection. Much is said about the consequences of the environmental crisis and climate change, but there is little about the causes. The causes are also clear. Recently there was a study that said that materials manufactured by humanity already weigh more than the entire life on planet Earth. This has to do with a model, an economic model, a policy model -- actually --...,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u118	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u119	...with a model of depredation of resources, with a predator model called capitalism, and that however much that green view, will remain the same; besides, it will only use green as a business opportunity.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u120	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u121	It's what they're interested in. You have to break up with this model, you have to change the system and you have to do it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u122	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u123	...starting with questions like what I said, because they can be done now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u124	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u125	Get to work. They count on us, because we can bring a lot in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u126	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Rubén Lorenzo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u127	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, as this is my first full intervention in this Parliament, I would like to show my deep regret for the 1,346 lives of the Greeks and the Greeks that the coward-19 has left us this year so complicated that it has come to an end. From here on, my support to the friends and family of the victims, and my desire for prompt recovery to all the people who are currently going through illness, especially those who struggle for their lives in the ICUs of our hospitals. I also don't want to let the opportunity pass to have a special memory and transfer my most heartfelt condolences to the family of Laxe's fellow, Francisco Lema Rodríguez, Paco de Tinolo, who last Monday 14 lost his life when he was working on the Boi Stone, next to the Laxe lighthouse, leaving widows and two girls. Once again, the brave sea of our Coast of Death honors its name and ascertains the hardness of the work that our people of the sea carry out. From here, a strong greeting to the family. [[Applause]] Getting into matter now, Mr. Aranguena, I'm not surprised you miss Vox so much, because of course, without Vox, you're nothing. [[Laughter]] I also want to remind Mr Bará of the incarnated capitalism which is so often named here. If we talk about climate change, the biggest greenhouse gas emitter is China, and precisely capitalism does not command China. [[Applause]] I would like to begin by saying that Galicia remains among the three communities in the state where emissions have declined the most from 1990, so that fifteen percentage points are placed below the level of the Spanish package. In the debate on the state of the 2019 Autonomy, a resolution was adopted urging the Galician Union to declare the climate emergency, but the German Government opted for action, not for making a mere declaration of intent. It was more important to act immediately, and that's what we've done since 2019, to take action. The climate emergency statements began in the summer of 2019 as symbolic statements, which joined echo organizations and a good number of groups, including universities and other youth organizations, such as the young Swedish activist Greta Thunberg. Subsequently, the idea was silent and part of the institutions, ranging from the European Parliament to the governments of the different countries and the autonomous and local governments, which were adopted at institutional level, but modified the texts of the declaration originally proposed by those organizations. In September 2019, the Congress of Deputies adopted the Declaration of the State of Climate Emergency in Spain; a declaration which did not bring any concrete action, but established a framework in which climate change was placed as a priority of the country's policies in a cross-cutting manner. This type of declaration was evolving, and so, in January 2020, the Council of Ministers approved the Declaration Agreement on Climate and Environmental Emergency in Spain, which is not the same as declaring the state of climate emergency in Galicia, as its motion calls for. Precisely because of this evolution, it doesn't make sense to go back to the beginning, which is what you propose. It's not the same as making a statement to the global climate emergency to declare the climate emergency in Galicia. Now it's not about declaring the climate emergency anymore, it's about betting on climate action and working together and without cracks to achieve climate neutrality. Even so, we already have climate emergency statements in Spain, and if the objective of this proposal is the commitment of public policies to climate action in Galicia, it is not necessary, since Galicia has been demonstrating this commitment. Good evidence of this is the approval of the Welsh Strategy for Climate Change and Energy -- which also doesn't like Mr Bará -- a document designed to direct and guide the climate action of the entire Government of Galicia and society as a whole, in order to achieve climate neutrality in Galicia before the year 2050, in line with the Paris agreement. It also approved the 2019-2023 integrated Regional Energy and Climate Plan, the 1st Strategic Development Plan which includes 170 measures covering all Galician departments with climate change-related competences. This plan is an investment of 1,250 million euros. That is the true and effective climate action, not the declarations of intentions. This Welsh strategy of climate change and energy 2050 isn't worth the BNG and so in its amendment, it proposes to do another one. The stranger would have agreed. This strategy was developed with a broad process of public participation and clearly defines the evaluation system. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Both the objectives of Strategy and the lines of action are currently valid and set up a government-wide cross-climatic action, which includes effective policies of mitigation, adaptation, R+D+i, social dimension, governance and awareness. In order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, the Galicia Energy Guidelines 2018-2020 are already being implemented, the roadmap set up by the Galician Union to promote the efficiency and empowerment of indigenous renewable energies. Actions for sustainable mobility are also included with measures such as the introduction of alternative fuels to fossil fuels or the renewal of the mobile park. By the way, with regard to the mobile park, I think we should remember, in an initiative presented a few days ago by the People's Group in committee to draw up a plan for the renewal of the mobile park in Galicia, the positions of the various opposition groups. BNG doesn't want to hear about it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] For something it will be. It does not support the initiative and argues that these are cosmetic measures, Mr Bará. The PSOE -- here it is, in Galicia yes -- if it supports the renovation of the mobile park. But it wouldn't be much more than talking to Mrs. Ribera, since, on the one hand, she says the diesel has the days counted -- which causes a breakdown in sales, with the prejudice that this type of declaration leads to the sector -- and, on the other hand, her government exponentially increases the acquisition of diesel vehicles for her own mobile park -- nothing less than 96.2% of the vehicles purchased are diesel --. Here they started ruling and here's the graph: 3.117 are diesel vehicles and only 2% are electric hybrids -- 15 -- ; 3.117 compared to 15. [[Mr. Lorenzo Gómez shows a chart from the stage.]] That's the concern about climate change that your party professes, Mr. Aranguena. So, less declarations of intentions and more actions. [[Applause]] The need to implement measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions at the global level and to act to mitigate the effects of climate change at the local level are not questionable. For this reason, the Environment, Territory and Housing Council set up an budget of more than EUR 20.5 million in 2020 to carry out action to promote climate action policies at the local level, included in this integrated regional plan, such as the Technical Office of the Pact with Mayors, created to promote the accession of all the Councils of Galicia to the Mayors' Pact for Climate and Energy, and to support them technically and financially in the fulfilment of the objectives of mitigation and adaptation assumed by their accession. This year 2020 has helped the municipalities of the Pact for the development of local climate and energy plans, and that is why we already have 177 municipalities in Galicia that have their approved sustainable climate and energy action plans. That's actions, Mr. Aranguena. In the area of adaptation, three strategic targets and thirteen lines of action were referred to, developing sixty concrete measures on the 2019-2023 horizon. In the field of R+D+i, the strategy defines two strategic targets and five lines of action that develop through twenty-three concrete measures on the 2019-2023 horizon, as collected in the first Integrated Regional Plan of Energy and Climate, with a total budget for this period of more than 45 million euros. Finally, I wanted to mention that the German Government is also involved in the European Green Pact, which you are also referring to in your motion. The European Green Pact is the roadmap for achieving climate neutrality and providing the European Union with a sustainable economy. The Greek Government is working on this same objective and is participating in the discussion of the documents that shape the Green Pact action plan, such as the European Climate Law, the Action Plan for the Circular Economy and the Biodiversity Strategy. In conclusion, we are now making decisions and taking action. It's no longer up to make statements. We cannot continue to make this subject of climate change a demagogic use and abuse of good and bad. Much remains to be done, but Galicia is already in the vanguard of climate action. This group does not want to declare without providing solutions. This group wants a work plan with a clear strategy, with which Galicia already counts with this Welsh strategy of climate change and energy 2050 and with a clear goal online with the Paris agreement: to achieve climate neutrality in Galicia by the year 2050. For my part, that's all. Very nice parties to all, too, Mr. Arunguena. Thank you very much. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u128	Thank you, Mr. Lorenzo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the motion's own group, Mr. Aranguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u129	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Lorenzo, you said that without Vox -- by the way, thanks for the congratulations, which is reciprocal -- we're nothing. I think, rather, that those who are nothing without Vox are you, as evidenced by the fact that in Madrid the PP has 89 deputies and Vox has 52 -- a 36.8% of the joint force that used to have the set on the right --. By the way, if we were to translate this percentage into the Galician Parliament, there would be 15 Members, who would be the "Vox section" of the Galician People's Party. [[Murmurs.]] I understand that I am not willing to say that this percentage has to be moved mimetically to this group, but there is, of course, a certain number of Members who show ways and ways very closely to those of the ultra-right. [[Strong murmurers.]] By the way, that Vox section is not, at all, imbued with Christmas spirit, something that I recommend they review.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u130	Let's get to the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u131	They're a little agitated today. I don't know if it's Christmas spirit or anything. By the way, Mr. Lorenzo, I was deciding whether or not you would be in the Vox section. I think you haven't done any merit yet -- and I hope you don't continue without it -- to enter the Vox section of the People's Party. [[Murmurs.]] How is it possible, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that with excuses of poor payers you will say that you will not do what you yourselves have pushed and agreed more than a year ago in this Parliament? I mean, what's your excuse? It's just that it doesn't have any kind of logic, amparo or foundation, so you're wearing lizards. They refuse to declare the climate emergency because you are negationists -- like Vox, by the way -- because they participate in what Rajoy's cousin said: that climate change was not for that reason. But even if you don't know it, the prospects are scary -- they're pretty scared -- in particular the probability that the so-called "reliance loops" might accelerate climate change even more. In general, as I have already said, the prospects for climate change change tend to get worse with the passage of time, and with the progress of applicable science... [[Prosequent murmuring.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that Christmas is coming, but please, they are not so much in shock. [[Explained words not perceived.]] Mr. Puy, how are you today?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u132	Silence! Silence, please, silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u133	I say it with affection. And, by the way, I haven't congratulated him yet and I use him to do so. [[Murmurs.]] For Galicia, which is uniquely vulnerable to climate change, its consequences can be more serious than in other countries, with serious repercussions on agriculture, forest fires, migration and a long et cetera, and thus affect our entire society. But you refuse to declare the climate emergency. Do you know what the budget specifically devoted to climate change is in your budget project -- approved already, by the way --? Eight million euros! Eight million euros to deal with the biggest problem of our species! The biggest problem for us and also for our children is worth eight million euros for you. That's right, environmental posture and eco-whiteness, all over the world! There are reasons for the declaration of the climate emergency. The increase in temperatures, the loss of cultivable land, desertification, the rise of sea level, the CO2 concentration record, the acidification of the ocean, extreme weather phenomena, massive migration and the instability that all of the above advise to act now and not take a single minute to action against climate change, which, of course, and how many and many countries and the rest of the autonomous communities are in a rational and moderate political line in this country, is to declare the climate emergency, which you refuse to declare and yet we do not know why -- after all your explanations today and the other day in the Commission 2nd in this Parliament --. Leave the echoosture and declare the climate emergency. I announce that we will accept amendments to the Galician Nationalist Block. I congratulate you again for this Christmas and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u134	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. Did you accept the amendments? [[Affirmation by Mr Aranguena.]] So we suspended the session until four and a.m.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u135	Good afternoon. We resumed the session. Motion of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantiños, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece and the demands to be made by the Central Government in relation to the wind sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u136	There's an amendment from the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To formulate the motion, you have the floor to Mrs. Presas. [[(G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of its Member, Martín Seco García, through the spokesperson and the authorship of the provisions of Article 151.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, presented the following amendment to this motion to the Bureau (Doc. # 6424).Amendment of amendment.The decisive part of the initiative should be replaced by the following:"The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to renounce the legislative changes in the wind sector included in the G.P. bill. Popular, administrative simplification and support for the economic reactivation of Galicia, negotiating a new integral wind model with the participation of all sectors involved, which address the multiple problems of transparency, participation, environmental advice and guarantees, generated by the continued regulations of the People's Party since 2010, which study the following proposals:1. Establishment of a technical, administrative and environmental advisory office for municipalities and communities affected by the development of wind activity in their territory.2. To establish in the wind canon and the Environmental Compensation Fund, that the canon is established by the installed power of the wind park, using the full collection to act on improvements in the municipalities and local communities affected by the installation of these parks.3. Establish a "type contract" model to promote transparency and guarantees of rural owners.4. Create a public price information base for negotiations between the affected parties in the installation of a wind farm.5. Strengthen the environmental guarantees of the territories affected by the installation of new wind parks or the repotencing of existing ones, with particular attention to the protection of the territory belonging to the Natura Network and its future expansions, preventing, in any case, the fractionation of projects of wind parks that are taking place in our community in violation of the legislation in force.6. To harden the mechanisms for the declaration of public utility of wind projects, which favours the search for agreements and the balance of negotiations between promoters and owners.)]] [[Mrs. Presas Bergantiños puts a T-shirt on the ground.]] I don't see her from here. I just want to see her.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u137	Nothing unconstitutional, don't worry, Mr. Santalices, don't worry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u138	That's good for me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u139	Everything within the law, Mr. Santalices. Don't worry. Well, good afternoon to all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u140	If it's not offensive, no; if it's not offensive, I think... I think I always meant that I always looked if this was offensive or not offensive. [[Mr. Puy Fraga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I saw some debate here that took place. Now I don't remember if you were at the Speaker's Board. If there's this at the Speaker's Board and we have it, yes, then... yes, it can be, that's what I'm trying to rewind now. [[Mr. Puy Fraga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] If so, let's consult. I'll check it out. No, no, but good. [[Mr. Puy Fraga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] If so, I'll consult you. Now the lawyer isn't here. Maybe, maybe. [[Mr. Puy Fraga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Now I also remember that there was something, but if indeed... there is agreement. [[Applause]] Yeah, perfect. Yes, yes, it may be that way. Sorry, you're also telling me Mrs. Prado, who was at the Speaker's Board... perfect, for nothing. [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] That's right, Mr. Puy, you're right about this thing, sometimes... like there was another debate in which there was one that was allowed here, because at best... but if you woke up at the Speaker's Board, that's sacred. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, nothing, if you can't, you can't. Perfect. Go ahead, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u141	Well, after this time spent on a fundamental and transcendental debate that would affect the lives of the Greeks and the Greeks, for we are going to continue after the delay of restarting Parliament this session as well. Fifteen days ago since the BNG we called on the Galician Union to call for a change of course in the wind sector. We were calling for a change of direction because we warned that in this new wind boom that Galicia lives, which does not obey a planning and management that interests the public centre environmental guarantees and the economic and social return to our country, there are many elements to bring the debate and correct. Because, today, this new boom is obeying better a jungle law, which is leaving not only lost opportunities for an energy model in the service of economics and society, but very serious environmental outcomes, without the possibility of return. First, the sector has been paralysed for ten years and now we are living what is worse than the cure than the disease, because they are sponsoring an wind ballatzo with a model that is alien to the social, environmental and economic interests of our country. [[Applause]] I wanted to give two examples of this reality. One is that, seeing the figures up to 2018, 300 megawatts have not been installed in our country, and only in the last year have more than 400 -- I insist that more than in the previous decade -- and nineteen more parks, a larger number of those installed in ten years, and that's no use. That's why we brought this shirt here today, which perhaps it was better to worry about the disappearance of the way of eating for more than 500 families, that where we put or don't put a piece of cloth, but the question is that Siemens-Gamesa symbolizes what happened in our country in recent years: the entire autochthonous business fabric that worked around the wind sector has been dismantled, and today not even this big new boom that we're living has served to curb this. Neither is the role of Galician Union itself, which omits its functions. In the interpellation, I also set the example for fifteen days ago of a sentence that, in turn, had gone out fifteen days before or so, around November 13, about Sasdonigas, and that really because I took away the reason to the Board of Galicia about a modification of a plan that is really what the sentence said: that it was fragmented and that this artificial division prevented analyzing the impact on nature and heritage, that modus operandi that the Board of Galicia is allowing also in other sectors like the miner. Mr. Counselor came in through one ear and went out for another, but reality is stubborn. Today morning we showed them photographs of the reality of the Iribio, of that new sentence that came out last week, not seven days after our interrogation, bring them the sentence, to see if they like to look more at the judgment than the images we put this morning. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantiños shows a document.]] Because the truth is they should read it from the German Government, because it's absolutely demolition. This judgment annuls the authorization granted by the Union to a wind farm in the Iribio saw, which is not a border, which enjoys different categories of protection, including that of the Natura Network area. And this sentence tells us literal phrases that are absolutely indisputable. I'll read some. He says, "Environmental injuries are constantly producing. With regard to Galicia, it is clear that there are different lines of action both in law and in law, and in a remarkable way, in relation to the environmental impact of the regulations, there is still a great legal gap in environmental matters in which energy companies are protected to carry forward their projects." I repeat: a great legal void in environmental matters, which this morning, in addition to the law you want to deal with, will go worse. And he also tells us that "the competent energy administration has tended to a tremendously productive interpretation." And it also alerts this judgment not only about that evidence that renewable meant not automatically sustainable or harmless, but also about the repercussions it is having on the territory, the defence that the collectives are having, and the citizenship and passivity that the Administration is having. This sentence makes a strong, deep and unquestionable criticism of the current legislative framework concerning the development and planning of wind energy, but above all, also, which is the attitude of the Government, which is not protecting the interests of society. Just as with the news that you're also advancing in the Land Management Act, recently approved, it's going to happen the same way. We're already living in that wind-planning jungle, and we're going to go to the worst. But we, as we advanced in the morning, the BNG of Ana Pontón will not allow this to happen without a reply, and we will not fail to make efforts for an alternative and because there is a correction by the Greek Government. [[Applause]] So today we are proposing six questions which we believe should go forward without any problems. The first is that we need a consensus in this country. They have to abandon from the German Government the strategy of unilaterality and they have to replace the current Law of Wind Use, instead of amending the law which has just been introduced into Parliament, by a process of consensus which harmonises the objectives of industrial development, but also the necessary environmental custody and also the necessary return to the territory and society. We demand that a new, participatory, wind sector plan be made, because we cannot continue to base the plan we have, based on the current map in a reality that is 1997. It is necessary to take a look at it to ensure transparency, environmental assessment and guarantees, and also that expropriation processes are limited to a minimum. We also wagered by strengthening the staff of the Galician administration, by providing the Inega with a relevant role, and by creating secure measures for them and the owners, such as that demand of the Galego Wind Observatory to arbitrate a record in which all contracts, prices, and that this allows each small owner to have information within his reach in negotiating with these large companies. In this sense, we understand from the BNG that most of the existing problems, that most of the concern in the territory and the distortions, would be resolved if there really was a development strategy that put collective interests at the center and linked that to the wind strategy. In that sense, we insist on the question of public participation, not only of the Galician Union, but also of the Greek municipalities, but also of the experience of formulae such as energy communities and so on. We would also like to introduce that proposal from the Galego Wind Observatory of a model contract to allow individuals and mountain communities to have instruments for negotiation, to resume this need for industrial development and environmental restoration plans in the areas where parks are located, and that this also has guarantees of development for the areas. And it's also a pending question, which is linking all of this to the innovative German fabric. Fourthly, another of the proposals we put on the table is that we correct the deficiencies that exist today in that wind canon arbitrated by the Galician Union, and in the Environmental Compensation Fund. We've been debating this a lot of times. The Fund requires transparency and that it mostly goes to the most affected places, and the canon is an absolute nonsense and injustice that nowadays continues to compete for mills, instead of power, when there are so many repots. In that sense, I want to recall here the estimate from the Wind Observatory that local and rural incomes for landowners only think about about about 5% of the actual, absolutely multi-millionaire billing that these companies have; therefore, a very limited return that needs to be corrected. And fifthly, because we are asking for increased monitoring of environmental guarantees, and for that we need to develop management figures, we need to develop figures like the expansion of the Natura Network, and we need to support industrial development to environmental well-being, and not go in the opposite line, as proved today morning, which will basically put the nature network's master plan to the service of what the wind bosses order. And finally, we introduced a question that also seems to us to be no smaller. We're at a time of many changes in the energy aspect, we're at a time when we have in our country of comarcas that have been through these years with an installed thermal that's going to close, and what's not from receipt is that there's going to be a handful of renewables announced and published the order last December 4 by the Central Government in which there are two major absences. On the one hand, we do not incorporate criteria that are not exclusively economical when we arbitrate those pockets, and on the other hand, we insist that there should be specific thrusts of renewables for the areas affected by these closures. This is a possibility that does not invent the Galego Nationalist Block, this is a possibility that contemplates the legal framework for a transition just to the brink of the strategic framework of energy and climate, and therefore the logical thing is that, if Endesa leaves The Bridges with her ass in the air, at least there are a few guarantees that there will be a specific thrust for this part of the territory, so that she cannot be the same company that plunders a part of our country because she obtains benefits through this new pox, and that at least in the way of wind development, which will irremediably affect these regions, there is a specific weight and there can also be a participation by these localities and these districts. In short, in view of the law of the jungle that we were offered today morning, today the Nationalist Block Galego presents here an alternative to development, a sector that is fundamental, but that is not harmless and that must also be ordered. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Martín Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u143	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, since the Socialist Party, we haven't seen here reviewing the past, nor are we going to take part in that conflict between the People's Party and the BNG about which was the model of the wind sector in 2009, which we heard the other day, and the problems it had. We want to talk about the present, what is happening today in our country, how we can continue to bet on renewable energies, correcting the various current problems that are paying for the municipalities, rural communities and owners, as well as the defense of our natural heritage and our productive sectors. From the Socialist Party, after twelve years of the People's Party's government and observing the deficiencies that its regulations have introduced into our territory, we have come to ask them to make the necessary corrections, that they do not go forward in clearing the field for the promotional companies, and not to implicate in errors that mobilize more and more citizens, municipalities and rural communities in our country. We are in time to make agreed and discussed changes among all sectors of our country to obtain a new wind model that moves towards democratization of wind energy, with a model that must benefit, firstly, the fight against climate change; secondly, the creation of jobs; thirdly, the defense of our natural heritage; and finally, greater participation in the benefits collected from our natural resources between municipalities and affected communities, that is, among our citizens. We are not making Bolivarian proposals nor are we paralyzing the wind development of our land, we are simply proposing measures to democratize the system, to establish balances between owners and wind promoters and, of course, not endangering our natural wealth and the primary activities of our territory. [[Applause]] The people of our rural area report day after day feeling helpless before the multitude of wind projects that flourish throughout our territory, without the Autonomic Administration giving them information about what's going on, without knowing where they have to go so that those who supposedly chose mostly defend their interests. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, every week some citizen of our vast rural territory is calling for help from their Government to look for formulae to have a place to go when a promoter approaches their homes to talk about the installation of an wind farm. Why don't they set up a technical, administrative and environmental advisory office from the Administration? What's the matter? Why would they rather turn their backs on our neighbors and neighbors? Why do they not accept the implementation of mechanisms to promote transparency, so that owners have as a model a standard contract to negotiate with wind farms promoters? What's the problem with the People's Party not doing it? Why do you not agree to establish a public information base for the prices achieved in negotiations between the affected parties in the installation of an wind farm? Why are they afraid of the transparency and support that our citizenship needs? You, who become the great advocates of private property, leave the municipalities and rural communities, who seek the help of their rulers in order to be able to negotiate with those who come to benefit from their property. [[Applause]] Why are they not looking for mechanisms to balance negotiations between owners and promoters, tightening the possibility of carrying out a statement of utility and thus expropriating their resources without being able to negotiate on an equal footing with wind farms promoters? How much does the energy sector companies weigh, gentlemen of the People's Party? How much pay is it necessary for your ex-companies at the Board of Trustees to pass on to the directives of these companies? On the other hand, we ask them to correct the insufficient return of the Environmental Compensation Fund and the wind canon in the municipalities affected by the installation of these parks, that the wind canon be established by the installed power, now that larger mills are introduced, and with the collection of this fund, established in an opaque manner by its Government, act directly on improvements in the municipalities and in the local communities affected by the installation of the parks. Something that is fair, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, when the Galician Wind Observatory reports that local income for landowners where wind is installed is only 5% of all the billing generated by these parks, that is, a millionaire billing in which almost no one participates. [[Applause]] As for the defense of our natural heritage and the future of our productive sectors, there are multiple complaints that we receive from collectives throughout Galicia about how wind farms are appearing throughout our territory without seeing order or planning by our autonomous administration, turning into sacrifice zones places of high environmental and cultural value, with numerous projects fractionated in front of their eyes, violating the Vigilant legislation. What can you tell me about what's planned in Outes, Mazaricos and Black? Don't you think you're dividing a project where there are already four parks and if you're planning four more with your evacuation lines? Don't you see the fractionation, gentlemen of the People's Party? And what do you think they want to do in Orders, Curtis and Messia?, four supposed parks that should be one; don't you see the fractionation either? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the reality is that 50 percent of its installed power is in areas of the Natura Network and there are judicial judgments on those who, abandoned by the Galician Union, dare defend their territory with their resources. As in the case of Iribio or Sasdonigas, in Mondoñedo, where they begin to explore the errors of an wind plan that does not defend our territory, our heritage and our citizens. I will no longer speak of the absolute inability to do industrial politics, in a competition that entitles them to the Statute of Self-Government and to which you renounce. Yesterday the President of Parliament celebrated the anniversary of the referendum on the Statute of Self-Government, and what better way to celebrate this anniversary by exercising the powers that entitle him to a hard conquest of Autonomy, as defined by the master and friend Ceferino Díaz? [[Applause]] But behind their resignations Galicia suffers a worrying loss of industrial activity, and they are unable to attract new investments and anchor existing ones. Where is the Industry Council, now renamed Economic Vice-Presidentship? At the extinction of Emesa, abandoned by the Galician Union and the Igape. Where are the industrial policies to try to save the Gamesa Siemens factory from relocation to Portugal? Nothing, gentlemen of the People's Party, there is absolutely nothing!, only to hide behind what they do or stop doing to an absolute failure of project for the productive sectors of our country, something that no one else escapes and that also reproduces in the agricultural sectors. Why this methodology established by the People's Party? They speak to the farms located on the rural borders of high agricultural content previously exposed: Mazaricos, Orders, Messia... did they speak to any national reference company located in the municipality of Messia, lords of the People's Party?, with enormous effort to develop an extensive and ecological activity that they see as their activity is at risk for the installation of 200 metre mills in the gates of their exploitation, without anyone from the Galician Union opening their doors to their concern? Nothing at all, gentlemen of the People's Party. Now is the time, after the Ministry for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge had adopted the first call for renewable energy thrusts with the new pay framework in a policy process that provides a stable framework for attracting investment and encouraging economic activity across the country's entire value chain of renewable energies, allowing consumers to directly benefit from the cost reductions in generation of these technologies with the objective of optimizing the integration of renewables into the system and maximizing savings for electricity bill. The letter states that the price collected by the installations will be obtained from the price of the corrected pox result with a certain exposure to the market. The resolution sets the market adjustment percentage by 25 % for technologies with the capacity to manage their production level and by 5 % for those without the above capacity. The resolution lays down the obligation for postpartum participants to present a strategic plan with estimates of impact on local employment and opportunities for the chain of local, regional and national industrial value, as well as, in the field of the circular economy, the measures envisaged in relation to the treatment of equipment at the end of their working life and the analysis of the carbon footprint during the useful life cycle of the installations. So from the Socialist Group we say yes to wind energy, but we ask the People's Party to listen to our citizens and democratize the system, giving participation, transparency and environmental protection to our citizens and also to our territory. [[Applause]] On that line is the amendment we tabled, which does not mean a revolution, simply democratize a system in which we all have to benefit and what the People's Party has much to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u144	Thank you, Mr. Seco. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u145	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Go forward from this Popular Group to support all the workers on the Siemens Gamesa plant, who are suffering a significant reduction in their workload and are facing closure; and go ahead with the support of the Popular Group, of course. And, when it comes to matter, the truth is, of course, they're a little pickers: they choose what you like about the energy sector. So, what we can't figure out is the past, come here and talk about the energy sector and make it clear that some have ruled here in Galicia and ruled in Madrid as well. So I've got to go ahead, too. What can't be like Mr. Seco says: we're not going to talk about the past; no, we have to put into contextualization, because there's been a stop to renewable energy in this country, because what you've done in this country was this. [[Murmurs.]] Look, this is a graph -- which I've already taught here on several occasions -- the tariff deficit, 30 billion euros that we are paying for an inadequate deployment of renewable energy in this country since 2004. [[Mr. Novoa Iglesias shows a document.]] That's the problem. [[Applause]] And what's the problem? No, the problem isn't that it's not finished here, is that you've been ruling for two years and what happened is that you've started lowering the tariff deficit, even Rajoy's government has come to create a surplus -- with the complicated thing that it was -- and now because even they've already cancelled it, they've loaded that surplus, and now, of course, they're going to light all the contributors and then they say, "The government's down the light by 13%"; oh!, but they hide that it's going to go up the fuels, gentlemen. Look, the cheaters are you. Here, what can't be is trying to talk about citizenship, participation, the public, and trying to deceive us. A drop of the light, which we'll see what it's gonna be, and we'll get a rise of the diesel, gentlemen, that in the end neither PNV, they've finally pushed up the diesel. And that's what they'll get from this government of Madrid so fabulous. Look, we also have to talk about the past Greek, of course, because he ruled the Bipartite here. And if we talk about judgments, you're the champions of the judgments, but in annulment of your contests. Look, his contest took place forty months late, they approved just a few weeks from the autonomous elections, divided into two the Government, its Government, Mr. Touriño and the Industry Advisor, the Nationalist Block Galego, who was about to stop. That was his government. And not only did the government representatives, even the officials, stand up from the negotiating table because the wind competition they proposed was totally illegal. And several judgments canceled his contest. So you're not here to talk about judgments. Yeah, I'm not going to list them here because I'm ten minutes short, it's worth it, but we'll have time to talk about them, too. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] But, look, apart from being a real failure, what you were doing with the competition is that we took part, well, the Government of the Union took part in the public participation in these contests. With which, with the leverage of the sector, what we would be today is without a euro in the public archives because of their failed competition, gentlemen. That's it! So we have to talk about the past. Economic losses would be incalculable, nothing to do with the judgments that can derive from some of our own. Well, there are always problems and there are judgments... yes, gentlemen! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We, on the other hand, accept the rule of law and comply with the judgments, not like you or other groups with which you want to join other places in Spain. [[Murmurs.]] We don't talk here about who doesn't meet the rule of law. [[Murmurs.]] Look, it's obvious who you've been given the wind competition as well. Who did they help with megawatts? So I want to tell you, ladies and gentlemen: Natural Gas, Fenosa, Naturgy -- as they say here, they don't know what it's called; that's what it is, a micro-enterprise, right, it's not the oligopolie company -- action, ENEL, Energy from Portugal, Gamesa or FCC. What are these?, small companies?, are family businesses? Look, pure demagogy. When they rule, they do something, and when they're in opposition, they say what they want. That's the difference. No, ladies, no. [[Applause]] Look, on the contrary, the current government has driven a new wind competition based on rigor, competition and, of course, on law enforcement. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, a wind competition that has allowed the associated industrial plans to generate more than a billion euros of investment in Galicia and create more than two thousand jobs. [[Murmurs.]] Galicia is clear that it strongly bets on renewable energies, in particular on wind energy, by playing a prominent role in creating wealth and employment. And that's why, yes, it's been approved in the past legislation the law of business implementation, to offer more agile regulation and greater transparency and security, and in this we're going to approve the law of reactivation, which doesn't change, neither does it, nor does it do any...; no environmental guarantee is lost, only deadlines are reduced. But to you, deadlines are reduced, gentlemen. They just can't come here, as they said... I don't know what law you've read! It's just that I don't know if they read another law, but this one didn't undermine any kind of environmental or territorial guarantee. Moreover, we have been copied by law, ladies and gentlemen, because the law of enterprise, after it was approved here, in this Parliament, was copied by Aragon, the Valencian Community... we are pioneers! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, ladies and gentlemen, we have an excess of bureaucracy and tell us the indicators, the Doing Bussines indicator. I know they don't care, but Spain is at the bureaucracy ranking in those indicators, far above Portugal -- another country that you're constantly setting an example here. So, I don't understand what his wind model is. Then they talk here that everyone is against. And, look, most of the owners come to an agreement with the promoters. We agree that it can be improved, but most of the owners arrive... ask their mayors, some mayor of my area, my province, yes, that it is not governed... it is of the few who govern you... take the phone, Mrs. Presas, and ask you what you think of some possible deployment of wind farms. [[Murmurs.]] He has few to call my province, because they rule in a few places, but do a few calls and he'll see what they tell him. Look, they criticize the wind cannon. The truth is it's incredible because you -- the Socialist Group voted against at that time -- are opposed to the creation of a canon, which creates an environmental tax that exacerbates the environment, which there are only three communities that have it. They're opposed to the most incredible!, after raising more than 200 million euros and financing more than 2,000 projects, and it's also bad for them. As for the collection, the oligopolie companies you're talking about, because they also talk to their mayors, for example Muras, and see if you agree or not with what IBI has to say in their county. So, of course... that's not good for you, but well... As for the judgment of Oribio, I insist, Mrs Presas, we will accept the sentence, but you have not read the entire sentence, because you have not read the particular vote that was in agreement with... of course, but the sentence is being studied and possibly an appeal will be filed; we will see what the lawyers decide. [[Mrs. Presas Berganginos wave from her seat.]] But not everyone opposes Oribio Park, because here's a mayor, Samos. Is it just you, Mr. Seco? [[Mr. Novoa Iglesias shows news.]] This one's not from the PP. What do you want? Do you want the park? Ask him. Did you call him? Don't you want the park? Well, I think he shows up here in favor of the park. [[Mr. Seco Garcia denies with his head from his chair.]] [[Applause]] Look, a little rigor. The truth is, I thought that the BNG, in this ounce of legislation, would change its position a little as to renewable energies. I'm surprised that it's still the same in the past; it's still anchored in the past. They haven't brought the Greek fare yet, but, well, he'll probably return to this House. The reality, Mrs. Presas, is that Galicia is an wind power and that we are the third community with the most installed wind power, the second generation of wind energy, and we have 180 installed wind parks, with a power of nearly 3,800 megawatts, and, with the projects installed, by the end of 2020, will reach up to 4,000; wind projects coming -- I insist -- from the last auctions of the Rajoy Government. We're waiting for them to summon these kinds of renewable energies. Let's see if it's true, because we've been without one for two years, which is going to provoke, for sure, a stop in wind energy. Yes, they announced it, I know it was announced -- I'm up to the news -- but we'll see when they're finally called. [[Murmurs.]] Galicia in 2019 has generated an increasing amount of renewable energy. On other occasions, they will compete with the Basque Country. The truth is we don't want to be like them, because they don't even have the fifth of the renewable energy we have in Galicia. Today he's not interested in getting it out. But, Mrs Presas, the wind energy itself generates jobs and wealth in Galicia, generates more than 7,000 jobs and reaches 1% of GDP. That's the reality, the reality there is, and you can't help it. And what can't happen is that at a time when more projects are needed, more work, you start taking out your shirt, shaking, the usual cop, taking out the banner, the Din A3 with the photos of the policeman... but, gentlemen, they're in the past. I insist, I said, they're in the past, gentlemen. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantiños shows a photograph from the scene.]] Look, the left of Galicia and Spain provoked the greatest hole in history in the Spanish energy system. And if they continue to rule longer in the State Government, they may continue with the same system, fattening the deficit. What you have to do at once, Mr. Seco, for wind energy, is summon the thrusts of renewable energy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u146	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u147	So it's clear, obviously, by all the above, that we're not going to approve your initiative. What I would like to see is that if they make proposals, they do them with a little more rigour and, indeed, not always with the same mantra: not with the private company that you helped megawatts when they ruled. Nothing else on my part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Novoa. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the motion's own group, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u149	Thank you, Mr. President. For rigor, yours, Mrs. Novoa, which I think you shouldn't read the motion, because if you read the motion, you'd see that the order of the State renewables poxes we asked for a correction -- which is the last point of the motion -- went out on December 5. That's the rigor! The command is published and the conditions are published. That's your rigor, Mrs. Novoa. By the way, he didn't say what it looked like to him that the comarcas affected by our country's energy transition must have a specific thrust under their interests. I see, of course, depending on the day of the week, whether it's worth it or not to the state. Look, several questions. About the mayor's phones, maybe you should call some traffic mayor who put you with your vows to stop paying salaries from the public era in Viana do Bolo and also some other inside the Mino Castle corporation, after that sentence you can't improve. [[Applause]] So maybe you should call those mayors positions with the People's Party votes. And, look, there are serious questions: Walls and the wind cannon. Of course, it's just that Muras has a revolutionary model by which he does it to get that back to the neighborhood, that they pay less bill and that there's no energy poverty in Muras. The problem is, what they're doing in Muras can't be done everywhere, Mrs. Novoa, that's the question. [[Applause]] And there's also the mayor of Walls next to the neighborhood, who they want to impose repots without guarantees, and they don't want to negotiate with them. He's working night and day so you can get advice to negotiate good conditions. Of course you do! Of course you do! And of course many owners come to terms, because it's better a bad deal than a good expropriation, Mrs. Novoa, you know it perfectly. But that doesn't mean the model works. [[Applause]] Indeed, I agree with Mr. Dry that it is better not to talk about the past and talk about the present and the future. The problem is that you come here with falsehoods and questions that need to be answered. Because, indeed, in the Bipartite contest, there were large oligopolies companies that obtained megawatts. [[Murmurs.]] But do you know what the question was? That it would be easier for small companies that don't belong to that oligopolie to get them, too, Mrs. Novoa. That's how the economic model is gradually changing. The question, in short, is: since you mentioned Mr. Fernando Blanco, do you know where Fernando Blanco is today?, where is the former counsellor of the Galician Nationalist Block? He's not in Greenalia, he's not in Naturgy, he's in his house. It's in your house, Mrs. Novoa. [[Murmurs.]] That's why we're proud to tell you about our past, of course. [[Applause]] Of course we're proud to talk about our past and what we're trying to do! Home!, Mrs. Prado, for Mr. Anxo Quintana is also in your house, he is not driving an electrician. [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] Yes, yes, and I'm telling you that at this bench it would be nice if you were to wash your mouth with a little hydro-alcoholic gel before talking about Vice President of the Quintana Angel. [[Applause]] Of course it is; yes, yes! [[Murmurs.]] This organization defends the same model of wind development, and the next time we have to tell someone that the windmills of our country have to be at the service of the people and not of large companies we're going to do it again, don't worry, be quiet, be Mr. Quintana, whether Mrs. Pontón or anyone else; they're going to do it again. [[Applause]] Look, I'm running out of time, I'm just saying a couple of questions. I appreciate the tone of the socialist spokesman. We're not going to accept that amendment because it doesn't add anything new to ours, except to remove the point that makes reference to the central government. I think it would be nice for this Parliament to ask the Central Government for a specific handful of renewables for the regions in transition -- it's a pity Mr. Conde isn't here; if we don't, we'd also propose to him -- but, in any case, we appreciate the tone and we understand that there's a possible way of dialogue there. I wanted to make one last mention, if you stop [screaming] on the side of this bench... [[(Expression taken from the Journal of Sessions by the President in the light of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure.)]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u150	Madam Presas, we're going to remove that word. ["Cheering"] is not the nature of the human being.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u151	Rosmar, rosmar...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u152	It is not the nature of the human being. We're taking her out. That expression is withdrawn.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u153	Rosmar, but don't keep running the time, who wanted to finish the sentence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u154	Well, you know that I in time... Rosmar is another story.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u155	What seems to me to be very serious is that you come here to defend a particular vote of a judgment, to make that defense. It's because it's the problem of these judgments that are now coming against the Council of Galicia: that the damage is done, Mrs. Novoa. And it's very serious that you come here halfway to announce that the Greek Government is going to resort to the judgement of the Iribio and wish that here you can move on with that project, because that gives you the idea that you don't learn anything. You've come to say practically that you don't care what this public era also paid for in rulings by the sectarian annulment of the Bipartite contest, so it's happening now in the environment. Of course, it's a very bad precedent...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u156	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u157	...about the future that we have to build for this country and a bad precedent...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u158	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u159	...because, after a decade of unemployment -- that yours was paron --
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u160	Thank you, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u161	...what we're going to live right now, is certainly not consistent with the needs of this country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u162	Thank you. I don't know if I touched three times? Did I play three times, or didn't I? I don't know if I've notified you three times. Don't you? Two? But is anyone missing? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm gonna give you another touch for... I don't know now, it's a little... sometimes I'm out. It's just, of course, this is very complicated, between such and I don't know, and now remember... I forgot, I don't know if it was two or three times that I played. [[Murmurs.]] That happens... [[Applause]] I think we can vote now, I think so. Let's vote. [[Murmurs.]] Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u163	We begin by voting on the motion of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Mr. Xoese Luís Bará. No amendments were tabled. We vote. Vote of the motion of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres, on the demands to be made by the Greek Government to the Central Government as well as the actions to be carried out in connection with the healing of the rivers. When the vote was taken, it gave the following result: votes in favour, 19; votes against, 52. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u164	We are now voting on the motion of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Pablo Arangüena. The amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego is accepted. We vote. Voting of the compromised text of the motion of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Pablo Arangéna Fernández, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the impact of climate change in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u165	And finally, we voted for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mrs Noa Presas. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is not accepted. We vote. Voting of the motion of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantinos, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece and the demands to be made by the Central Government in relation to the wind sector. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; votes against, 38; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u166	The votes are over here. We're still on the agenda. In this case, also with another change, which has been reported. The opinion of Mrs. Counsellor for Employment and Equality, on his own request, to report on the evolution of the health emergency of the covid-19 in relation to the general forecasts and lines of action of his department
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u167	To make this appearance, you have the word of the Employment and Equality Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u168	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am indeed present in this House and on my own request to inform, on the one hand, of the strategic lines of the Employment and Equality Council, but also to take account of the evolution of the health and economic emergency of the Covid-19 in the field of the competences of this board. This council is a new creation council, and it's a council that shows the commitment of the Greek Government to the two areas that refer to its name: employment and equality. In the first case, because we give the protagonists of an area which is vitally important to the economic and social recovery of the community in the coming years, and in the second case, because we rise to the advice of a general secretariat, that of Equality, precisely by launching a very clear message; the message of which we will promote equality, but labour equality and co-responsibility to achieve not only the economic and social recovery of Galicia, but also because we think that equality in the labour market, that equality in education and that equality in education are the fundamental basis for combating gender violence. As you know, we found ourselves in a historic moment, in a moment of an unprecedented global crisis of great impact on our social fabric, on our business fabric and on our work and industrial fabric of which we still do not, unfortunately, know the concrete date of its end, its output and the real dimensions and repercussions that it will have. In view of all this, the Department of Employment and Equality of the Galician Union is planning to develop -- and it is already developing -- actions oriented, on the one hand, to the protection and promotion of employment in our community, but also to guarantee the principle of equality. So I'm going to structure the appearance at two points: the first relative to the lines of action that the Council had in relation to the crisis of the coward to the moment, and a second already in relation to the strategic lines for the next year 2021. From the point of view of the measures articulated, in this case in the field of equality for the shelter or for the protection of victims of gender-based violence against the coward in 2021, in particular we have articulated two types of means: on the one hand, those relating to the services provided to the victims of violence and on the other hand, to the reference to economic support. With regard to services, the Council of Galicia Council of 20 March has already approved a plan to strengthen the care of victims of gender-based violence; a plan with 17 basic means which, on the one hand, sought to maintain with full intensity the existing services for the victims, but also to strengthen and create other new ones that we considered necessary. So we have kept operational in any case, and we have adapted them, in their case, to telephone services, on-line care and legal advice, in this case, on-line; psychological support services, which we have maintained in presence, but also through telephone sessions and telephone follow-up; we have maintained services of an administrative nature also on-line, so that all economic aid could be processed at the electronic headquarters of the Union; and we have maintained the point of coordination of protection orders. And the Integral Women Recovery Centre has maintained permanent contact with all users. As I told you, we also implemented new user services. In this way, reception centres have been implemented or increased, providing for a possible increase in demand, with alternative resources such as hostels, hostels and pensions. In this sense, it is also worth noting the work carried out by the CIMs, the information centres for women -- the 82 CIMs that provide their services in collaboration between municipalities and the autonomous community that finances them in part -- which, far from closing their doors, increased their hours from 8 p.m. to 9 p.m., thus ensuring ongoing face-to-face attention. We count on the collaboration of the Galician Taxi Federation to ensure the service of the transfer of victims to these reception centres, and we extend the Social Rent Bonus to the victims of gender violence, assuming 100 percent of the rent. As I told them, support was not only about services, but also about economic aid to victims. So during these months of the year we already have 639 beneficiaries of monthly payments of regular aid to victims of gender-based violence and 341 beneficiaries of annual single payment aid to victims of violence with special employment difficulties. And we also grant compensation for the offender's insolvency, in this case to eleven beneficiaries in the year. This year 2020 we continue with two economic aids launched in 2019 which are pioneers in the Spanish State. The first is aid for children under 30 years of age who are victims of gender-based violence -- two beneficiaries from year to year -- and the second is economic aid or compensation for women who have been seriously injured and who have required hospitalization -- three would benefit -- All of this was accompanied by a wide-ranging institutional dissemination campaign, reminding women of the telephones and the aids, support and resources at their disposal. As I said earlier, the impact of the crisis has also affected very significantly the work fabric of the Greek language. And in this context, it is also of utmost importance that work has been carried out since the Employment Council in its position as labour authority since the Directorate-General for Labour Relations. This general address was able to process, within less than five days since the entry into force, 4000 ERTEs in the second wave and made it possible in the same way and with the table agility and speed the disaffectation of the companies and the corresponding workers affected to these files for the return to activity. I'd like to take this opportunity to speak not only about this general address, but about all the Council employees and make a public thank-you to all of them, because without each of them's work in the processing of these files and all of those I'm going to account for right now it would be impossible if they had carried out the performances and activities and had gone ahead with all the programs I'm going to talk about here. Returning to the Directorate-General for Labour Relations, he was also able to maintain a unified approach in the resolution of these ERTE files throughout the autonomous community. This was achieved through continuous interpretations and information notes on how the ERTs would have to be processed as the different state rules regulating them have been adopted. In this way, we kept in touch with the professional schools of lawyers, managers, social graduates' schools, to ensure proper processing and, as I say, a unique and coherent processing in the four territorial heads of the Council. The Issga, the Institute of Occupational Safety and Health, also performed a fundamental work during the pandemic, during the covid-19, in this case in prevention and safety and occupational health. Issga, as you know, has two fundamental functions: the first is to accompany companies in the development of prevention and safety and occupational health plans, but it also has the role of helping them in the consultations they make to the institute with criteria of maximum technicality and a high degree of specialization, both in the public and in the private sphere. In this context, in the first phase of the pandemic, he attended nearly 800 technical consultations, was able to prepare 76 documents between guides and preventive recommendations and gave advice and technical assistance to 100 percent of the demands made from different sectors, and they are to highlight the automotive, construction, naval and field or forest sector. It was also made available to all board members of the Board, drawing up specific action protocols for re-integration. Issga has become, by empowering Royal Decree Law 21/2020, empowered authority within the framework of prevention and hygiene, and in this sense twelve people -- Issga's technical staff -- have performed 28 actions on the basis of this ability basically ensuring the availability of protective equipment for workers, monitoring ventilation measures, disinfection and effective reorganization of working times and spaces to return to work. Issga's work is constant and will adapt to different developments; it's also reviewing and updating its documents according to the scenarios that derive from the evolution of the pandemic. And so, in this second wave, he was able to approve, elaborate and disseminate to the self-employed and micro-enterprises a brochure and a guide called Keys to the Prevention of Covid-19 in your company to respond to the major doubts of companies in the face of possible contagion in a workplace. It also carried out technical advice for the preparation of reports on hygienic masks; it issued a report to the People's Valedora on preventive measures to protect the health of workers from home support services during the pandemic; it carried out technical advice to the College of Journalists of Galicia to minimize the risk of infection of professionals in communication; and it also conducted training against the curfew-19 to the educational community at the request of the Council of Culture, Education and University. Finally, we must highlight the creation in the last quarter of the year of a covid-19 reference unit within the Issga to provide -- now in 2021 -- constant support in the work environment and it will have EUR 30,000. We also put in place adaptation measures in the field of training and placement, primarily linked to the flexibility and adaptation of courses, so that it was easier to move from presences to being given via teleformation or virtual classes. Since March 15th, all the training provided by the Centre for New Technologies in Galicia has been carried out in distance modes, and still with the pandemic we have been able to take forward 19 training actions and 390 pupils, and even now there are 48 students in three training actions. We also strengthen the cleaning of both employment offices and training centres, investing more than 2 million euros. But in this context it was also necessary to support economically our small businesses, our autonomous ones, and that is why it was key to the work of the Directorate-General for Employment, Self-employment and Social Economy, which led and launched the rescue plan for self-employed people and micro-enterprises. I can tell you that this plan now has 39,600 applications. EUR 12.7 million has already been paid, and will be paid in the next few days EUR 10 million corresponding to files already processed at the Councillory that are found at the Business Council for their payment. This means that in less than a month, we will be able to pay 41 % of the applications received. This is, as I told you, the first part of the intervention, which refers to the actions that were carried out immediately to react against the pandemic crisis, and step by step, then, now to refer to the second part of the intervention, which refers to the strategic lines of the Council for the next year. These lines of what I'm going to talk about are embedded in the commitment of the Union to Greek society as a whole, but taking into account the peculiarities also existing in our society; a society that embraces all the Greeks and all the Greeks, which therefore embraces all men and women, because they are all indispensable for the sustainable development of our autonomous community to achieve an equal society, a equitable society, in which we believe that our department will have or will play a key role. That is why we have an budget which is the second that is most growing in the budgets of the 2021 board; it is a budget that doubles the overall average increase in the budgets of the Galician board; it is a budget of 355 million and which increases by 33 % over the year 2020. I'm starting again with the scope of the match. In the field of equality, we will continue to design and carry out all actions to combat gender-based violence, we will also continue with all measures to promote equality, but we will also continue with measures to promote labour equality. In the fight against gender violence and in the integral treatment of their victims, on the one hand, we will maintain all existing lines of collaboration with the various agents involved. We will therefore continue to work together, both with the municipalities and with the social-initiative bodies, so that we can continue to give and provide welcome resources and care services. We will also maintain existing agreements today that provide services to certain more specific groups of women, such as women with disabilities, immigrant women or women in the Roma community. On the other hand, we will continue with direct assistance to the people affected, to the victims, and we will do so by keeping the direct aid to the victims of unemployed gender violence, thereby doubling their budget. It goes from 600,000 to 1,200,000 euros. We also shielded the economic compensation to the victims in cases of the offender's insolvency, and strengthened a strong momentum over recent years in relation to the regular economic aid we give to the victims of gender-based violence. You know we're the only autonomous community that has these aids implemented. We started an budget of 4 million euros, and with credits, in any case, expandable. In the field of gender violence, in the execution of the Gender Violence Pact, we will continue to bet on the cross-cutting of funds. We believe that not only from the Employment and Equality Council can we fight against gender-based violence, but all the institutions and other departments of the Galician Union can also do, and much, in the fight against violence. That's why we will maintain the Social Rent Bonus in collaboration with the Environmental, Territorial and Living Council; we will maintain 100 percent of the rental costs of victims of violence; we will also maintain collaboration with the Social Policy Council for the support and care of minors victims of sexual violence; and we will maintain the agreements we have with the three Greek universities. But together with all these resources that we had already available and that, as I say, we have to maintain in the next year, in 2021, and with some increase in some cases, we will also launch two new creative measures: on the one hand, we will give free legal assistance to victims of sexual violence, and we will do so with the collaboration of the First Vice President's General Justice Directorate and with the schools of Galician lawyers, allocating half a million euros for this free legal assistance. And, on the other hand, we're going to introduce or implement a new welcome resource, in this case a specialized resource for women victims of gender-based violence with addiction problems. This project will be a project carried out with the Home-Galicia Project. As I said to them, as important are the measures of fighting against gender-based violence as those that are geared towards their prevention through the promotion of equality and which are addressed to the whole community. Therefore, we continue to bet on measures to promote equality, which we have developed with the grants and the assistance we give to the municipalities for actions of both direct promotion and awareness-raising. So we're going to maintain all and every one of the women's information centres, 82 women's information centres, which satisfy more than 180 municipalities throughout Galicia, and also that's why we're going to maintain collaboration with all the non-profit entities that help the women who need it most, the most vulnerable women. But we're also going to continue, in this promotion or in this area of the promotion of equality, betting on female entrepreneurship programmes. You need to stop here or highlight one of these programs, which is the Emega program, which is an integral measure of struggle for female entrepreneurship, but it also manages to reconcile working life and create female jobs. This programme for the year 2021 will have an budget of EUR 3,600,000, i.e. more than twice as much as we invest in 2020. And why is that? Because only in 2020 we managed to support 197 women's business initiatives, which created 324 jobs. This project was started in Merge in 2009. We have invested more than eleven million euros, and since 2009, over nine hundred women's projects have been funded and over six hundred jobs have been created. In this area of promoting equality, we will continue to bet -- and, if necessary, more -- on the conciliation and co-responsibility programmes, on the conciliation programmes in collaboration with local authorities, but also on the conciliation and co-responsibility programmes that we have been working on since the Galician Union, rising, in this case, the calls, by which we finance the reduction in the number of single-parent men and families by 41% over 2020. But, as I said before, full equality not only can we achieve with the fight against gender-based violence, not only can we achieve with cross-cutting actions to promote equality, but we must also achieve it with genuine labour equality. In 2021, they will make more precise than ever the support they promote and ensure that women can work on equal conditions with men, that they have equal access to work and that they also ensure their job maintenance by supporting, of course, the assumptions of conciliation and co-responsibility. In the field of equality of work, as a novelty, we will train the companies themselves, in addition to the workers, in the field of equality, to be able to shut down in the productive fabric as regards labour equality. Technology tools will be created to facilitate the implementation of equality plans. Aid will be stepped up both for the development and for the follow-up of equality plans in companies. We have just amended, in the Law on Measures, the certification of excellence in equality, which we will develop regulatoryly to facilitate the processing by the companies of this certification. We will maintain all aid for the increase in telework and for conciliation agreements and a new programme will be launched, the training programme with commitment to female employment, in sectors underrepresented by women. All these actions will be carried out by the Directorate-General for Labour Relations, which, as I said to them, will continue with their work and their functions as a labour authority, and in particular, of course, with the processing that corresponds to them at such delicate moments with regard to the ERTE. And from this general direction there is also social dialogue, which is a fundamental element for the Government and for this council to be able to succeed in our decisions and to reach consensus decisions with social agents and economic agents involved in our community in the field of employment, equality and in the field of technological transformation. On 23 September, we signed with the organizations present in the social dialogue a statement by which we expressed our desire to continue, indeed, during this legislation, with agreements and negotiations within the social dialogue. Since then, we have met on eight occasions with the agents present at the social dialogue tables to deal with topics such as equal counselling, the execution of educational content and equal tools, the Empreganav project, the Next Generation funds, or the Act of Reactivation. We have already planned for the next 12 January, the next meeting, which will be, precisely, to start working on the new programmes and the new lines of action of the Council for the next 2021. It shows the agreements made within the social dialogue is, as I told you, for example, the Empreganav project, a project that counts with an investment of EUR 3.3 million, thanks to European funds, co-financed also by the Galician Union, and which aims to reintegrate unemployed people from the auxiliary shipbuilding industry in Galicia. It is a pioneering project that aims to guide, shape and retrain; ultimately, to encourage both self-employment and to support the relocation of these workers. It will be developed in 2021 and in the first half of the year 2022, and we have just signed, with representatives of both Asime and Workers' and UGT Committees, the agreement to start the initial phase of the project. The Issga -- Institute of Occupational Safety and Health -- is going to continue to comply with its safety and health policy at work, and will continue, on the one hand, supporting the pandemic with that covered reference unit I just mentioned, which will try to give an axile response and an effective response to the prevention of the risk of transmission by the coward, but on the other hand, it will continue its work. On the one hand, agreements with social agents on safety and health strategies at work, which ended in 2020, are being extended. And this will be done with the firm intention of setting up a working group that is able to debate about the link between public health and its relationship with work health, and ultimately with the intention of having a more comprehensive view in the new strategy on the prevention of occupational risks in the workplace, taking into account, precisely, the effects of covid. We're going to continue to work in the field of labor charity. Issga has set up a working group with social agents for the analysis and prevention of labour inequality in Galicia, and we will therefore continue in the annual planning of activities in Issga, focusing precisely on all those activities that, by the fruit of this work and this group, have shown that they have increased their sinality or have reiterated the accident in the corresponding sectors. Finally, Issga will continue with advocacy campaigns and awareness campaigns. We are going to focus on these campaigns in particular on risks arising from preventive measures in teleworking, the use of mobile devices and the psychosocial risks generated by the pandemic. It is the responsibility of public administrations to design new measures that adapt to changing reality, and especially in the current socio-economic context; these responses that have a lot to do with the training of our workers and the work orientation. That's why we bet on creating a new public employment service in Galicia. We are committed to making an integral renewal of the Public Service of Employment of the Galician community, a commitment that goes from then on to modernizing the infrastructure itself -- and in this sense we will complete the work of Lugo's office -- as we have also approved the projects to bid for the works of Coruña, Cangas, Ponteareas and Verín. But what's so important is that we're going to make an absolute change in the Public Employment Service system. It is about setting up a new operating system for the management and control of demand for employment, employment and training. It is a project of about six million euros that aims, through artificial intelligence, on the one hand, to bring forward the needs of the real-time labour market and, on the other hand, to adapt itself also to job seekers, in order to improve the processing of data and information relating to these applicants, not only about their training and their location, but about their abilities, about their skills, or even about their job preferences. All of this will allow a real-time crossing -- as I tell you -- of demand and job offer. It will therefore allow more efficient labour orientation, based on market demand, and will allow what is so important, adapt training, adapt the training routes of our workers and our workers to these needs. In this line, and in line with the recommendation of different national and international bodies on the need to analyse and change the demand for skills and qualifications that will be faced with employment in the coming years, we have also commissioned a study of emerging technologies that will be carried out over the next year, which basically aims to analyze or implement fourteen emerging technologies in fifteen sectors. This study aims at the following: firstly, to analyze the current situation, to analyse the different economic sectors or the impact that emerging technologies can have on the future in the workplace; to identify the innovations that affect each sector and to identify the existing training deficiencies in the staff working for these sectors so that we can adapt jobs; and to conclude with a document where it proposes or develops the qualifications needed for each of these sectors and the training modules needed to develop the necessary training offer. In this 2021 since the Directorate-General for Training and Employment, we will maintain, in addition to this reform of the Public Employment Service, all of the training actions, both for the unemployed and for the unemployed. We will therefore maintain all training actions for unemployed workers who are given in accredited training centres, in this case, with a call of more than EUR 5 million this year for 2021 on 2020. It is EUR 40 million to fund 841 courses and will form a total of 10,549 people. We will maintain training actions in companies engaged in recruitment with a biannual call that will allow nearly 6,000 students to participate and will also maintain training actions in the vocational training centres themselves for employment, in particular, in our 12 centres will be more than 2,300 participants in a total of 160 courses. We will also maintain -- as I told you -- all the training for the employed, for the employed, in the Employment Training Plan directed at the employed, but also with the training units directed at the training of workers employed in strategic sectors; this year we benefit from this plan 1,735 students with 442 training actions. And of course, the recognition of professional skills acquired through work experience will be maintained as well as evidence of evaluation in key competences in order to be able to access the level 2 and 3 professional certificates. We intend to meet a call for 4,000 people. Employment is the ultimate goal and purpose of all training, placement and guidance activities. The cover-19 undoubtedly assumed an unprecedented challenge to all social levels, and of course had a huge impact on health, education and employment. So, from the very first moment, we sit not only with social dialogue but with the Galician Self-Government Bureau to define the rescue plan for self-government and micro-enterprises -- of what I've already told them -- and that's why we're going to be able to carry out actions like this in the next year 2021. Thus, economic items for self-employed and micro-enterprises have increased in this budget by 2021 by 310 %. In this way, we will be able to renew the Rescue Plan for self-employed people and micro-enterprises by adapting ourselves in January to the needs, on the one hand, of health measures, and, on the other hand, also to the needs of the representatives of the workers, businesses and self-employed within the framework of social dialogue. In any case, what I can assure you is that they will be aided with consensus -- as in this case with this plan -- and immediate aid, axial aid, easy to process and charge immediately, as I tell them. But we're also going to launch new programs not only for job maintenance, but also for generating new jobs. First, we will launch a programme that will promote new business initiatives regardless of their legal form, whether they are autonomous or micro-enterprises. And the only requirement is that they meet needs not covered in the territory or that they satisfy value chains generated by other industries or services present in the territory. We will continue with the Autonomous Bonus, with EUR 6 million for next year and we will also continue to support the reconciliation of the autonomous ones, the generational relief, the second opportunity and the mentoring programme, the tutoring program for self-employed people, which is allowing themselves to consolidate and help autonomous people to reorient their business. By next year we will lay the foundations for the social dialogue and the Self-Government Bureau of the Self-Employment Strategy for the year 2021 ahead and will also promote the virtual office of the current self-employment. But we also have to maintain support for people's recruitment, not only for enterprise or for the generation of new companies, and we will do so by continuing with programmes such as, for example, the Galicia Employment Programme, especially by supporting recruitment in women's businesses, but also by hiring in the ordinary business of people with disabilities and people at risk of social exclusion. We will also maintain aid for recruitment in municipalities and aid for recruitment by non-profit entities. I'm starting to realize the social economy side. The social economy is of great importance within the project of this council and the Council of Galicia and has already shown it since 2016 by Junta with the adoption of the Social Economy Act; a law that has made us the first autonomous community to be endowed with a law to regulate the sector. The social economy has a proven 19-21 strategy in Galicia, and the social economy has an increasingly consolidated presence in the territory, both in Galicia and the rest of Spain and in the European landscape. It has shown, on the one hand, that it is much more resistant to job destruction, it destroys around 6 % of jobs less than the rest of the organizations, and it currently has a weight of around 7% of GDP in Galicia. In Galicia this year we were able to build, still with the pandemic, 87 cooperative societies, 23 working societies, 4 special employment centres and 1 insertion company. We therefore exceed a total of more than 2,000 active entities between cooperatives, working societies, special employment centres and insertion companies. So in the year 2021, we'll continue to bet on the social economy, and we'll do it with programs and projects we'll talk about -- as it can't be otherwise -- at the Galego Social Economy Forum and at the Galician Social Economy Council, because, as I say, listening to the collectives, it's how we actually can promote public policies that are agreed and adjusted to the needs of each sector. The social economy increases in our budgets by 22%. We have 33 million intended solely for action for the year 2021; actions that we can organize in three major groups. The first are aimed at the creation and/or consolidation of social economy enterprises. Some are already known programs, such as the Aprol-Economy Social, which is intended to generate employment in cooperatives and in working societies, but also with three new programs: the Es-Transforma, which is intended to recover companies in another legal way that, for economic reasons or for lack of generational relief, have prospects of closure for becoming social economy entities; the Es-Factory, a second program, which is a programme of social economy accelerators which basically aims to guide and accompany the promoters of these business projects linked to business opportunities in the neighbouring economy; and the Good consolidation, which is a line of aid directed to existing social economy companies, but which have a minimum seniority and need some kind of renewal, adaptation, linked to the new economic context and also to the new digital age. A second group of actions, also very important, seeks to disseminate and raise awareness of the social economy, to get to know its values and to get to know the entities that make up it. Some of these actions will also be known as, for example, the Eusumo Network, for the promotion of cooperativeism and the social economy, but we will also launch a new programme, the Es-Next programme, which aims, precisely, to enhance the quality of products, the quality of services and the benefits that the social economy brings to our community in order to thus stimulate demand. And a third group of programmes, within the social economy, are programmes designed to promote inclusive employment, both for people with disabilities and for those at risk of exclusion. With these actions we hope to benefit 130 companies directly, giving work to more than 3,600 people. It is the aid to special employment centres, the aid to insertion companies, the programme that we have already launched for dual training for people with intellectual disabilities, which continues in 2021, the development for jobs aimed at people who perceive Risga and a new line of aid for financial rebalancing to special employment centres of social initiative and also to inclusion companies. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that what I have just explained is evident from the fact that the Galician Council and this Employment and Equality Council are working decisively, aware of our responsibility and also aware that there are many families, many companies, who are and live in times of great difficulty. I am fully aware that to achieve this goal the only way is to involve all social agents, all economic agents and all labor agents in our community. I therefore express my commitment to continue in the path of permanent social dialogue, consensus, to articulate measures, such as rescue plans to maintain and contain the effects caused by short-term cover, but also with new programs that allow flexible training adapted to the new digital context and the start-up of this new Employment Galego Service, equipped with tools that guarantee real, genuine interconnectivity and at the moment between supply and demand. These are actions that complement these new employment and social economy programmes that are close to what I have just spoken to you about. Ultimately, direct assistance, training, effective employment services that promote employability and which form the basis for sustainable development of our community, for a Galicia free of violence against men and women and for an equality Galicia. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u169	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Round of parliamentary groups. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u170	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Counselor, good afternoon. The Socialist Parliamentary Group welcomes the presence of the Employment and Equality Counsellor in reference to the situation of the health emergency of the Covid-19 with the general forecasts and lines of his department already over 100 days of government. I'll start my speech by talking about the area of equality, and then move on to the analysis of the employment situation. At this point, it seems unquestionable that the incidence of the curvature 19 pandemic was much greater in women than in men. It was we who experienced a regression in our vital conditions to assume more burden of work in the home and care; those that modified our working conditions to adapt to the new reality, and even those that we found ourselves in a greater situation of vulnerability to male violence. All that we have just mentioned, by the way, was warned at the experts' meetings in the Reconstruction Commission, which pointed to the need to make a political turn to reduce the effects that are directly affecting women and to advance us to the new social, economic and care order which, inevitably, counsellor, has arrived to stay. [[Applause]] And in view of this situation, what has the Government of the People's Party planned in the near future? Well, really little or nothing new, something really worrying. The Galician Union seems to have been unable to make a stubborn analysis of the new reality. Even though they already have the table data, they offer nothing new in conciliation or in the promotion of co-responsibility, whose shares in the budgets of the year 2021 have not only increased with the strength they owe in view of the current situation, but, as we say, they will undergo a paradigm shift. Of course, we also have to talk today about the macho violence, that structural problem that, far from disappearing, seems to continue to trouble us and for what we haven't found any new formulas of struggle, despite the fact that the data are temuth and offer the same reality as years ago. Unfortunately, despite all efforts in the area of legislation and with three Greek women killed this year, there are now around 3,800 active cases of male violence in Galicia. On this issue, and given the particular vulnerability of women in times of pandemic, we were asked whether the data on the situation of women victims, or potentially victims, in this crisis, and also that they proposed during confinement and in these subsequent months, in addition to the necessary care and protection task -- of course, fundamentally, supported, as you know, by the women's information centres staff, of those who spoke in their appearance-- were assessed. [[Applause]] About these centers they now have a new speech, elucidating responsibilities and arguing that they are municipal centers. [[Applause]] On the benefits to women victims -- which, of course, we believe are essential -- we also demand a paused assessment of the data, advisor. 53% of beneficiary women belong to rural areas; 70% are under 46 years of age; and more than 81% are unemployed. I'm just going to give three data to make us clearly a profile of these women victims for which there should be specific preventive actions: a very special attention to rural women. The rural woman suffers a triple isolation from low participation in public spaces, from being isolated geographically and from identifying her own situation as an individual process and not as a structural problem, which is. From the Socialist Group we believe that it is necessary and urgent to draw up a specific, advisory plan, which is strongly resourced against macho violence, focused solely on prevention; not concrete and disillusioned actions, not a specific prevention plan and, of course, cross-sectional to all areas of the Government of Galicia. [[Applause]] Actions aimed at protecting and accompanying women are indisputable, but, in the light of data, it is essential to work on prevention, with more education in schools and with vigorous campaigns directed at young people, men. You were talking about agreements, about agreements like those of the university. I have to say if you keep them, as I said, but lower your budget allocation. The lack of time does not allow us to continue to sink here today in the area of equality, but we could talk about a second of the LGTBI collective, to which the new budgets add a single share of 26,000 euros. He deserves no further comment. [[Applause]] Finally, we do not doubt the goodwill of the Secretary-General of Equality or his will, Counsellor, but, if we truly understand this is a matter that should be transversal to all areas of the Government, of course, it would deserve much more budgetary resources and new lines of action in view of the fact that, despite his efforts, we have made little progress in this matter. I'm going to go to the job area now -- I don't have much time. The impact of the pandemic crisis is being more pronounced than expected, and the measures decreed for the containment of the virus are having an unprecedented effect on employment. The health crisis is affecting to a greater extent the most vulnerable sectors, such as workers with temporary contracts, part-time workers, boys and girls, women, self-employed and small businesses. I missed that I hadn't talked about boys and girls in their intervention, about the trouble they're suffering. As I said, the perimeter confinement measures adopted by our Autonomous Community which contain a restriction on the movement of persons and measures which involve closures or limitation of activities in establishments such as hospitality, restoration, travel agencies, etc., cause a strong contraction in domestic demand. The pandemic has reached the German labour market in a situation of more weakness than the state as a whole. We still haven't recovered the figures from 2008, twelve years later. This is clearly shown if we talk about usual hours. Why did you talk about regular hours and not days? Because the People's Party has broken down the employment contracts and now a worker who has two hours in his contract appears to be busy. Well, in 2019 the German labour market continued to not recover 14,8 % of the usual hours in 2008, compared to the loss of 7,9 % of the rest of the state. And this is very important: it has to be said that these usual hours lost amount to nothing more and nothing less than 177,844 full-time jobs lost since 2009 to the present. We must highlight the loss of 43 % of the primary sector, compared to 9 % of the state average. We have 22,000 less entrepreneurs. We speak of autonomy because of the importance of their current problem and the serious situation they are going through. If we analyze the execution of programs directed to self-government within the Employment Council, previously integrated into Economics, in the period 2009-2019, Feijóo period, with a credit of 821 million, you spent only 551 million. They stopped spending 31.8% of the budget for self-employed people. I believe that, Counsellor, it is not only a problem of measures which I expose in your appearance, but of policies, because it is, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, Government of Galicia, that the money budgeted comes to your recipients. The Greek Government not only reduced the assumptions that Galicia had for employment in 2008 and 2009 -- which it left the Tourin government doing -- in the successive years of the PP's government they lowered them and, in addition, they were unable to spend them, counsellor. If we analyze the data of independent workers, also according to EPA, we also have a total of 36,431 less independent workers. The download in the primary sector is demolition. In 2008, 55,099 independent jobs; in 2020, 33,470 independent jobs within the agricultural sector. He agonyes the rural sector and does nothing to prevent it. [[Applause]] In March 2020 the Government of the State, through Royal Decree 8/2020, placed the emphasis on self-employed people particularly affected by the current situation by creating an extraordinary allowance for cessation of activity and exemption from social security. Hosteries, trade and construction concentrated more than half of the benefits granted. You were only sucking at a measure that was the advance. He talked a lot about early spells, and I wanted to give them some data about them. Feijóo said that 3,400 advances had been granted, if I didn't understand correctly. Look, Your Honor... - Oh, I'm with the lordship, speaking in the courts... - Well, 3,400 are insignificant and I explain why. Of the 176,000 ERTE benefit recipients in Galicia who totaled in May 2020 and received a EUR 145,15 million payroll, 3,400 advances amount to 1,93 %. [[Applause]] Our group has put forward a number of initiatives to enable self-help, and, in particular, hospitality, and you took a long time to react. They waited for the affected collectives to manifest themselves in the streets with despair, then making a copying of decree drums and generating an inaccurate and confusing ball of figures. Self-employed people and pemmes need them now. And we have to talk, as I said before, about Thursday, Counselor. The labour market for young people and girls is characterized by being precarious, unstable and without rights. The EPA data, according to the third quarter, reflects the alarming reduction of the active population. There are 17,400 more inactive boys and girls, 7,600 more unemployed girls and more unemployed girls and an active population loss of more than 20,200 people under this collective. Because, in addition to analyzing the population in a state of unemployment, we take into account the assessment of the active population, we see a strong fall of 20,200. Very worrisome, counselor, is the rate of unemployment of youth in Galicia, which stands at 21.6 %...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u171	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u172	I'm done. Only in one year do young people and young gales lose four points of activity rate. I'll continue later, in my second intervention, talking about the Youth Guarantee Program of the Union, which I think is not working.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u173	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Pérez López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u174	President. Good afternoon, everyone. I want to begin by adding my condolences to Rubén Lorenzo for Paco's tragic death, a fellow of the Costa da Morte. We knew how to hit the veterans' football fields. I've regretted his death a lot. Let the earth be light, Paco! [[Applause]] Counsellor, you came here today to sell some lines of action for the year 2021 backed by an undeniable increase in budgeted amounts in respect of the previous year in your office, but I'm sorry, counselor, we haven't bought your speech from the BNG, and I'll try to argue with you over the short time that I have. I wanted to start by highlighting the lack of self-criticism that you do from the performance of your department since the beginning of the pandemic. It is true that employment and equality were framed in other councils and that it was in September when this new council was created that includes two departments that for the BNG were always central. So we understand that decision as correct and essential in the context of the economic and social crisis generated by the coward-19 and also to focus on these two areas, but this bet has to be real. As for employment, there was already an apartment before that conversion into counseling, and the performance of Joine on this issue since the beginning of the pandemic left much to be desired. The necessary health measures have suggested that many of our country's autonomous and pemens aim to restrict their activity either partially or totally. The impact on the business of restrictive health measures was asymmetric, since, depending on what they were referring to, many could continue working and billing normally, but many others saw how their billing turned out to be zero. And, in this sense, particularly affected were autonomous in the world of culture, hospitality and restoration, tourism and many business lines associated with these businesses and activities. A high percentage of pemes and self-employed see that monthly bills such as water bills, light bills, business maintenance costs or rent; expenses that could not be reduced because the necessary activity restrictions prevented directly invoicing or, in the best case, allowed invoicing something, although never enough to cover those costs. And in that situation they looked, if they'll hurry me, until today. Because Junta announced in April plans such as the reactivation of culture and tourism with effects on purely pyrotechnic practice, as demonstrated by the October mobilizations of these sectors, because it did not envisage this plan a single line of direct aids that allowed them to cope with the current costs that continued to come up, despite being closed or working with restrictions of activity and timetable. And they didn't take that asymmetric incidence of the pandemic into account in the different sectors and subsectors that fit the pemmes and autonomy of this country. That plan and other measures announced did not generate trust in the recipients, established insatiable requirements or directly failed to reach whom they were directed. And so, in October, the self-employed, the hostel or travel agencies, desperate for the situation and lack of support on the part of the Union, left; I am afraid that from March until now more than 2,000 pemes have finally been closed. The vast majority of the closures are small street establishments: shops, private cultural activities, hairdressing, travel agencies and, above all, cafes, bars and small hotels and restaurants. Thus, part of our business fabric, the most redistributive and close, which gives life to our towns and neighborhoods, was abandoned by the Union when I needed it most. And it was now, almost ten months later, and motivated by social pressure, when the Union articulates the first direct aids, while in other communities they already go for the second ones. And self-criticism, on the side of the board, zero; balloons out. I have a terrible doubt: from March to July, which was when the elections were held -- so I put that time frame -- to which has the employment department spent its time? Because they had time to analyze the situation and the evolution of the pandemic in other countries, or even in other territories of the State, and there was no need for a crystal ball to know that closures of activities and movement restrictions would be necessary in Galicia, and therefore they should be paired simultaneously with economic measures to compensate for the ongoing costs resulting from the closure of the activity. Having worked in that most likely situation has a name: anticipation. And anticipation is intimately anointed to good management; it is not possible without each other. If there is no anticipation, management is not such. And do you know what the action of the Board is in this case? Propaganda. That's what the Government of the Union did when it announced wonderful plans and measures there in April; "before no one," they said, but really, with null practical effects. And in those months there was no concrete action directed at youth -- actually, you didn't even appoint in this intervention, I suppose in the second turn you'll refer to it -- If before the pandemic we started a complicated situation for young people in the workplace, in a context of prescription it was necessary to bet clearly on it. It was and is essential to take concrete and real measures to facilitate access to the labour market of young people, to correct the chronic precariousness of this population sector and to allow Galicia to return to thousands of young people in Greece who were forced to emigrate because of the lack of opportunities in their country, caused by the bad employment policies for the PP youth. [[Applause]] Instead of seriously and responsibly analysing the health situation and its socio-economic effects, Junta has sold smoke for months, and yet not a word of self-criticism in its intervention, by the inaction of Joina for those months. As far as equality is concerned, covid-19 has led to a general crisis which, from a media point of view, overcomes problems that affect more specific sectors or groups of our society, but that is not why they can be less important in predicting and acting administrations. This would be the case of discrimination because of sexual orientation and gender identity and also of masculine violence. And there's no doubt that women are the ones who suffer the most and are suffering from the negative consequences of cowardice-19. On the one hand, by the assurance that the loss of labour rights in the form of feminization of certain jobs, such as care, precariousness and the form of lower wages or increase of the wage gap, and by the sharping of problems that women suffer before the pandemic to access employment, both on the other hand and in the case of self-employment. The action of the Government of the United Nations on equality was limited to announcing at the end of March -- on 26 March -- a plan of two sheets -- with a rather fat letter, in addition -- of strengthening attention to victims of macho violence for their security during the state of alarm by the coward-19, which consisted of establishing it as an essential service, but basically maintaining the same measures. Of course, the attention to the victims of gender-based violence is an essential service, but it is that gender-based violence has mainly worsened in this time of confinement. Male violence not only disappeared with the coward-19, but it continued to occur, in a context marked by months of confinement and mobility restrictions, which aggravate it; a prolonged and constant violence in the space that was aggravated by the feelings of impunity of the aggressors, who perceived less control over them. All of this required forecasting, special treatment and sensitivity from the Equality department. That reinforcement plan you referred to has 17 measures; 10 of them already existed before, and the other 7 most concentrates on the reception in collaboration with municipalities and NGOs. The board here wasn't very predictable either. Of course, we understand that the Galician Union, and in this case its advisorship, was not up to the circumstances as far as gender violence. By entering the lines of action of the new councillor, I mean that in this council, in fact, there has been a significant increase in the budgeted amounts, but for us they are still insufficient for the reasons I'm going to expose. An analysis must be done in view of that increase, first, from a temporary point of view. The cuts and lack of investment in this department for almost a decade minimize and make it necessary to relativize the intended positive effect of the budget increase and, from the perspective of budget execution, has been a common focus on the low-implementation employment of employment promotion programmes. We consider a clear, robust and defined strategy of the Council essential. The Employment and Equality Council cannot be a crunch of other councils, as long as they try to justify it with transversality. The test and the absence of low-level execution strategy of some employment programs consists of the credit transfers that have recently been made. Turning to departures related to aid to companies in crisis, aid to people affected by the ERE of force majeure to now transfer them to aid to the hostel shows clearly that there are smoke programs that only serve to generate headlines, but with very dubious real effect. In any case, there is a lack of clear strategy in the Council on employment. That help to the inn is necessary, but what they can't do is undress one saint to wear another. As I have already said, for BNG equality is a central issue, and as a central issue it deserves its own counsellorship, even if it is shared with another department like the Department of Employment, but since BNG we understand that the Government of the Union must go much further and transmit to society that struggles for equality, progress in the visibility and awareness of society demand a clear message from the Administration. The fight against discrimination because of sexual orientation and gender identity, against masculine violence, the struggle for women's real equality in all sectors -- social, economic and labor -- must be the fundamental axis of the new board; it must have a much more intense role, projection and promotion since equality. It's not enough, though necessary, that cross-section of what you were talking about a little bit ago in a media. The bet must be much more powerful. It is essential to move forward in equality, and so it must pass it on to society. In short, since June, there has been a lack of analysis of the socio-economic situation in terms of employment and equality for many months of pandemic, and that cannot be considered as good management. The measures they now take here do not compensate for those months of inaction and forgetfulness in employment and equality. And the effectiveness of the measures taken since June 2021, in these two fields, must also be put in quarantine, given the low degree of execution that is already customary in this area. As the counselor of Fairy said in his intervention yesterday, it is essential to optimize each euro to execute the budget, and we will be vigilant from the BNG. We may not agree with the approach given to it from the Council to which it should be acting, but the situation of prescription inevitably demands that all announced and planned programs and plans run to the last penny, so that they can continue to generate jobs and move forward in equality. If they don't, those who will suffer here will be the Galicians and the Greeks, and, given the crisis that accompanies them, their advisors cannot spare any effort. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. Pérez López. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Balseiro Orol.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u176	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Madam Counsellor, you present in this Parliament your own request, before this plenary, to take account of the strategic lines of the department you are directing in the field of equality and employment and also to explain the initiatives promoted by the Union to meet the challenge that the pandemic represents for businesses and for workers and workers in our country. We all agreed on the analysis. The health crisis has been accompanied by a massive impact in all economic sectors, with more or less virulence in some of them. And, in view of this reality, there are two very different ways of dealing with this challenge that we today could highlight in the speeches of the people who preceded me in the use of the word: the speech of the forces of opposition -- I suppose you wouldn't expect other things --, gripped to, the worse, the better; or the government of Galicia's proceeding, in which all efforts are bound to recover us as a country. Junta is focused on support and rescue -- when it corresponds -- to the most vulnerable professionals at the moment, especially in areas where companies and workers today more than ever need to feel the support of different administrations. And, in the face of this challenge -- I said -- it is particularly apparent that one of the first decisions of the Government has made in this new legislation had, precisely, raised to the rank of counseling employment policies and equality policies; that is, the creation of this council, offering a high and clear message to employment and equality, which are two priorities for the Government of Galicia and are two priorities for the group that supports the Government. And always, besides, they were, but today more than ever, with a team, the team you lead, focused on equality, conciliation and generating new job opportunities. [[Applause]] What does all this translate into? Well, it translates into concrete examples. While the Central Government, ruled by the Socialist Party and by Podemos, who had supported the investments of the Nationalist Block of Wales, was unable in the first wave of the pandemic to face the payment of the allowances by ERTE, the Galician Union sought an effective solution for all those workers and enabled a system of advances that allowed many families to survive no longer months without any kind of income. While the Central Government, ruled by the Socialist Party, by Podemos and supported by nationalists in investment, has been promising, without approval, a rescue plan for a particularly impacted sector, such as the hospitality sector, Junta is already making effective payments of its rescue plan. Autonomous, microenterprises and hospitality know that with Together the money comes at the moment, which is when they need the most. [[Applause]] All of this, thanks to a rescue plan of the most ambitious and best-equipped autonomous communities, approved in record time, in consensus with the sector -- you have to consent -- you don't know -- and with an agile processing that allowed last week and this one to advance the first payments. Meanwhile, the central government, ruled by the Socialist Party, by Podemos and supported in the investment by these lords of the Nationalist Block Galego... No, if you actually supported it... it's true that you have only one representative and that everything you have from Pedraphyta representation there goes everything on a skate; you can go on a skate... but this was decisive. [[Murmurs.]] [[Laughter]] In this they were decisive, you must recognize it! [[Applause]] [[Laughter]] They've been promising for years to promote, within their competences, plans to support companies like electrointensive companies, or energy transition measures, and since Moncloa they've taken political decisions that seriously endanger the future of companies like Alcoa or the future of Endesa workers... I don't know, I don't understand. -- You've noticed that they've been promising the status of electrointensives for two years, and when they approve it, they don't even take into account the allegations that they've been able to consensualize governments of different political colors, like Galicia, as was Asturias or as it was Cantabria. [[Laughter]] I mean, they didn't listen to their own party partners or their partners, to those who didn't do them at all, even though, said it was a step in this matter, there will be a debate in this plenary, and I'm not going to extend any more. There are two very different ways of dealing with the challenges of the labour market. We believe that the best social policy that the Administration can do is to strengthen its active employment policies to further increase the purchasing power of the Greeks and the Greeks. After the Economic Reactivation Plan has been launched, the Board has activated a new employment schedule, adapted to the current context. And that's why Together is right, when you listen. It's very important to listen, and the left, to listen... before I said they didn't know how to consent, and to listen they don't listen, because to consensus they have to listen and they've been in opposition for years and you're still unheard of. They do not realize that they are wrong, that they have to follow in the future in the opposition, because you do not listen to or agree on the nearness of the business fabric and of the social and economic and political partners through the channels currently open, which are the sectoral forums, the Reactivation Commission in this Parliament and the Bureau of Social Dialogue. Yes, that social dialogue -- it's precisely now going for you, nationalist gentlemen -- so disenfranchised by you. It's just that you understand the kindness of social dialogue when you're a monologue. You hear a single union, a union of its political colour; therefore, you are unable to understand at this time, with which you are falling. And what the people of Greece and the people of Greece are asking for right now is that there is an understanding, that there is social dialogue and that once and for all public representatives we understand ourselves. The Union is focused on getting back as a country, Counsellor, and that also means betting on equality between men and women, in all areas: in the public, in the private and, of course, also in the workplace. Because there are political forces who think that equality is the exclusive heritage of the left, but the reality is that the greatest advances in equal opportunities in our autonomous community -- in Galicia -- have always come true with the People's Party in the Government of Galicia. [[Laughter]] Today the budget on equality doubles what you had, that of the Bipartite, that of the Socialist Party and that of the Galician Nationalist Block. This area of equality will have more budget in 2021 than it had to promote co-responsibility and to continue to fight against the masculine violence. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We are also different in the tax policies we defend. You bet on the emptying of the claws' pocket, man!; you bet the Greeks have less money in their pockets... because you think the governments on the left have the position of telling the families how they should spend their money, while Galicia, the Autonomous Community of Galicia, the Government of Galicia and the government-supporting group are betting on the lowering of taxes, in addition to the object of supporting strategic sectors of the economy of Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] So in the next year 2021 we will not be taxed in Galicia, families or businesses, and we will maintain the large tax rebates approved in previous years, such as succession taxes, so more than 99% of the Greeks do not pay this tax when they inherit a direct family member. [[Applause]] In addition, these policies consolidate Galicia among autonomous communities with lower taxation across Spain. There's also the reduction in taxes for the purchase of housing in rural areas. The Union will also facilitate the succession of family businesses, and the Greek Government will maintain the zero tax program in rural areas, which aims to mobilize the rustic lands and set population in the space of our wider territory. Counsellor, these are the policies that are being endorsed by the men and women of this country, but which are being evaluated in each electoral process. And this bench keeps growing, and this bench grows Cambian, change the chromiums, but the bench goes down. [[Mr. Balseiro Orol pointed out by hand the seats of Members and Members of the People's Party of Galicia]] [[Mr. Balseiro Orol pointed out by hand the seats of the GG Members and Members. PP. of the Galician Socialists and the Galego Nationalist Block.]] This bench has one more deputy I had in the past legislation. [[Laughter]] [[Mr. Balsairo Orol points again with the hand of the seats of Members and Members of the People's Party of Galicia]] But so badly we did, you did, that since 2010 every election we go, more Members have for this bench. [[Laughter]] And these gentlemen go up to Parliament's rostrum and keep saying we've done it wrong. [[Murmurs.]] Hey, you guys ever have to think about it and say, "But who's doing it wrong here?" [[Mr. Balsairo Orol points again with the hand of the seats of Members and Members of the People's Party of Galicia]] Are the Greeks wrong in each electoral process, or what's going on? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Maybe, yeah; maybe, yeah. [[Mr. Balseiro Orol pointed out again by hand the seats of the GG Members and Members. PP. of the Galician Socialists and the Galego Nationalist Block.]] Which is why I encourage the Greeks to continue in that decision...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u177	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u178	... -- I'm done now, Mr. President -- because it's been good for you right now, and for that you will have more resources than ever. The Employment and Equality Council will be increasing by 32% the budget for the year 2021 with 355 million euros to reach a Galicia with more work opportunities, more equality and more sustainable. In this objective, he has the full support of the People's Group, the majority group of this House, most of this House, and I am also sure that he has the full support of a vast majority of Greeks and Greeks, who once again say that the People's Group continues in the Government of Galicia, continues to make decisions and continue to defend the interests of the Greeks, and that once again the Nationalist Block of Galicia and the Socialist Party continue for many years in the opposition benches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u179	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the reply, the Employment and Equality advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u180	President, thank you. So I'm going to start responding to the employment aspect and certain issues that are common, I think, for both opposition parties. They say that the rescue plan of this Galician board and the Employment Council is scarce, that it's late and that we don't anticipate it. That's a bit the summary of your criticism. As far as the Rescue Plan of the Autonomous Community of Galicia is concerned -- and they can contrast it -- as much as they have talked about the BNG that when we made a plan there were other autonomous communities for one or two plans, I think it's not so much about how many plans we've drawn, but about how flexible it is about the management of plans and the economic investment of plans. There is now no autonomous community in Spain that has drawn up a plan with the level of economic investment -- EUR 84 million -- of the Galician Union, and there is no autonomous community that has been able to pay 41% of the applications in less than a month. I invite them, really, to tell me in which order of grants throughout Spain they were able to pay more than 40% from the date of publication before the appropriate time, in competition. You were talking about the Royal Decree of the State. What I can tell you is that Junta is supporting 84 times more autonomous and micro-enterprises than the state. The State has just passed today at the Council of Ministers the Royal Law of Support for These Sectors. Do you know how much direct help is given to microenterprises and self-employed people? Zero euros. I'm looking for euros! And she tells the minister that support is the support of the ERTE -- that they have already come since June and that, by the way, we have actually had to anticipate -- and that the aid is the aid that is being given to them from the autonomous communities. In other words, it seems that autonomous communities are not only health delegated authorities, but also economic delegated authorities. So economic support for the autonomous sectors, the hospitality sector, the tourism sector depends exclusively on the archives of the autonomous communities. And they criticize how we deal with this plan. They also criticized yesterday the councillor of Fairy when he talked about the budgetary changes that were articulated to deal with the plan. What other way does a government, an executive, have to deal with an absolutely unpredictable need when there is no transfer from the state, no transfer from the European Union? What other way does he have? It's the way to run an budget, that's what you expect from a government that knows how to execute its budgets: that in the last quarter of the year it's able to mobilize funds that are not yet committed to needs that appear unpredictable, as is the Rescue Plan. So, on the one hand, they criticize the low execution of funds and say we're not going to be able to execute them, but on the other hand, they also criticize that we budget -- which is a legal figure, an instrument that gives the Budget Act -- and that we move the funds to meet the needs of self-employed and micro-enterprises. The reality is, you don't understand. Nor is it understood that we have drawn up a plan which is not directed at the most affected sectors and which are even critical of social dialogue. It seems a bit, as Mr. Balsairo said, that social dialogue can only be done by the Minister of Labour, because, if he does so by the Employment Adviser, then social dialogue is invalid. This plan is a plan born of social dialogue, it is a plan in consensus, and it is a plan that is put in value by self-government organizations. They go out in the press saying that the board has met the circumstances, and they tell them their own self-sufficient ones, she doesn't say so. So if, indeed, we take action with social dialogue, we take action with consensus, and this is the government's bet: to get the self-employed out of the crisis and to get the small companies out of the crisis, but always in collaboration and in consensus with the social agents. They refer here to youth employment, the employment of girls and boys. I've got a specific interrogation tomorrow about youth employment, and I'm not going to be giving any data about youth employment when I'm going to do it tomorrow. In any case, Galicia is four points below the national average in youth unemployment and Galicia is the second autonomous community with less youth unemployment between 16 and 24 years of age. As I say, I'm not going to extend myself into this now, because tomorrow I'm going to give data for the kid. They also talked about part-time jobs. They said that these jobs were increasing more and more and we calculated how out of unemployment the part-time workers. But, look, 3 out of every 4 employees in Galicia are undefined, and of these, 87.55 percent are full-time jobs. So we shouldn't be doing it so badly when 87.55 percent of the undefined 75% are full-time workers. They also referred to Royal Decree 8/2020, so the State sets in motion the extraordinary allowance for cessation of activity for self-employed persons, who mix there with ERTE and the funding of ERTE. Here, in this Royal Decree and later, two types of benefits are regulated: one is actually related to the contributions of workers in ERTE and another to the provision for cessation of self-employment; provision for cessation of activity that we complete in the Rescue Plan, because it is an absolutely basic benefit; it is 50% of the basic contribution to Social Security, that is, about 500 euros. That is the provision that the State gives in the Royal Decree, and that is what we are now completing in this rescue plan. They say that the work of the Board on employment in this area -- in the field of cowardice -- is just propaganda and that in March and April we were unable to do anything. Neither we nor anyone else; in March the pandemic began. How can you say a plan is propaganda, when I'm telling you that 41 percent of 40,000 applicants have already received the claim? That's not propaganda, that's in the pocket and the current accounts of the beneficiaries of the grants. Then, in the field of equality, they say that we do not invest in conciliation and in co-responsibility, and I do not understand how they can say that when we increase the number of conciliation and co-responsibility. The budget of this government -- said Mr. Balsairo -- in the matter of equality, duplicates the investment made by the Bipartite. So I don't understand how they keep saying that. As far as information centres to women are concerned, I don't think it was ever said from the German Government that they were autonomic centers. They're municipal centers, and the only thing I've ever wanted was to put in place, guarantee and make sure that those tips from the information centers to the woman will continue for the 82 centers, which are, in fact, necessary. The Plan of Covet on Gender Violence says it's two sheets -- two sheets without content -- with measures that already existed and new ones, and besides that these news were in collaboration with other entities; with which, we weren't predictors. Man, nobody was waiting for the coward-19! So, how can you say we weren't predictable? We're talking about a plan of continence precisely because of the outbreak of the crisis of cowardice to ensure the existence of shelters of an alternative nature; we're talking about shelters and we're talking about tourist centers exclusively because of the circumstances. Who was a forecaster of this? This plan has 17 measures. Indeed, part of the measures were those that already existed, I didn't say the opposite, but there are also new measures and measures that I think they are to put into effect, because that 100 percent of the rent of victims of violence is funded by the Administration, or that the transfer of the victim to the reception center is funded by the Administration, I think it's to put in value. Just as it is to enhance the continuity of all the actions that we continue to do in collaboration with universities, with the Galego Observatory of Gender Violence, with the Galego Council of Women... I would like, in this second part of the intervention, to highlight the fact that we combine the areas of employment and the areas of equality. These are two issues that feed on each other, as will be demonstrated throughout the legislation. It's a legislation marked by the coward, which will be characterized by economic reactivation, but where there will be no equality if there is no employment, because there must be inclusive jobs, because there must be jobs that allow women's potential and because there must be women's jobs that result in companies' productivity. But there will also be no employment if there is no equality, because women's empowerment passes precisely by the full participation of women in productive tissue, in business fabric, in executive positions, in positions of responsibility... in all those where she has traditionally been discriminated against. So we're going to continue with all the actions on the promotion of equality, and we're going to continue to step up -- as I told you -- not only the development of equality plans, but what's so important, which is the follow-up to equality plans. We're going to try to train not only the workers and the workers on equal terms, but the companies themselves, who are responsible for leading these equality plans and the effective implementation of these equality plans in companies. We will strengthen the social dialogue in this area with the Equality Bureau that we have established in the social dialogue and will continue, of course -- which I think is very important -- with the work on safety and health at the moment with that covid-19 unit created in the bosom of Issga. None of you mentioned or referred to the renewal of the Public Employment Service in Galicia. I think it's important that... I'm sorry, Mrs. Rodríguez, that I didn't realize --. I think it is very important to highlight this renewal; it is indeed a very important project for the future of employment and equality in Galicia. [[Laughter]] This investment -- as I tell you -- of nearly 6 million euros to get across demand and supply, employers and workers, to really get training for skilled workers in those sectors that will actually give them jobs and to get us, the Public Employment Service, to be able to carry out proper work orientation, to carry out a proper job placement for our workers. Training and training are essential. We will not spare a euro in training, both for the unemployed and for the unemployed. The recognition of professional skills through experience is essential because it will also allow the placement and entrepreneurship of many of our unemployed workers, training activities in the training units of companies with commitment to placement and all the actions that we are going to carry out in the field of self-employment and micro-enterprises are fundamental. Because, as I told you, we're going to maintain -- and you have my commitment -- support for self-employed workers and micro-enterprises through rescue plans that have to accompany the health crisis as long as it takes, but we're also going to maintain all incentive measures for recruitment with programs like Galicia Employment; programs that actually support the most disadvantaged groups, support women, support people at risk of social exclusion and also support young people and young people from Greece for enterprise insertions. As I tell you, we will continue with social economy programmes, the creation and consolidation of social economy enterprises, these new programmes to try to create new social economy entities or transform entities into crisis entities into social economy entities, and of course we will continue to support inclusive employment in inclusion companies and also employment for people with disabilities into special employment centres. In short, we are a new creation council, but with an budget of more than 355 million euros to carry out the active employment policies that compete in this autonomous community and also with actions that promote gender equality and combat violence against the masculine community. We have been developing programs focused on prevention and safety and occupational health since the beginning of the legislation. We have already done, as you know, the study or macro-enquisition on perception in Greek society with regard to gender violence, to continue to focus on those programs that we see are working and to also affect those points where we see that it is necessary to continue to work. We listen and care, with all the means we have at our disposal, the Greeks and the Greeks. And since that premise, the aids we have already approved to alleviate the situation, as far as possible, of uncertainty and lack of liquidity in our productive tissue. But we also have to make it clear that, in addition to maintaining employment, we need to create jobs, jobs that respond to new demands from the Galician labour market, which we need to know through this renewal of the Public Employment Service. We count on the most ambitious budgets in recent history; budgets that are materialized in strategies, programs and actions that we have just discussed here, that are shown as necessary and effective and that offer a range of programs that follow the marked path of organisations such as the OECD itself, which has just pointed out in its December 1 report that, in fact, we have to focus on two lines: in short-term programs for the maintenance of existing employment -- in Galicia they think that more than 95% of the productive fabric is formed by autonomous and micro-enterprises -- and that they have to go in the long term to systems that are able to detect and anticipate the needs of the labour market to cross job supply with business demand. Ultimately, as you know, the goal is nothing other than to seek the best possible life for all the Greeks and all the Greeks. We have clear in this government that politics is only useful if it reaches people, and we really hope to achieve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u181	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Special round of clarifications. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u182	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. On a previous basis, Counsellor, you say that the State's contribution during the year 2020 in this pandemic was EUR zero. Look, he's not telling the truth. The transfer by the State to the Autonomous Community of Galicia in 2020 was EUR 735 million for health, education... and, above all, for what we are dealing with, to compensate for the fall in economic activity was, in particular, EUR 224 million. [[Applause]] I don't think you can fake the data that way. I even want to tell you that it is the sixth autonomous community that receives this money in 2020 and reminds you of data such as that in May, for example, by the cessation of activity, simply, and by unemployment benefits were paid in Galicia more than 150 million euros. He continued with the Youth Guarantee Plan exhibition. I told you before that the Youth Guarantee Plan did not work and that we therefore asked this Parliament, on an initiative presented by this political group, to create a shock plan for this collective, to which the People's Party voted against. On anecdotic basis, I want to say that it was Ourense's own Deputy who in its document on the demographic challenge, within the framework of the European Social Fund's Operational Employment Programme for the period 2014-2020, which includes a descriptive memory, said textually: "The self-employment aid measure envisaged in Royal Decree 234/2018 does consider it more interesting than the one offered by the Galician Union for the same purpose, is of greater quantity and is better adapted to requirements and obligations to the difficulties of the demographic challenge territories.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh This same report by the Ourense MP reports that this province is the only province in Spain where there are more pensioners than people working. We also have to talk about women and jobs. Do you know that if you don't change the policies made in Galicia on employment in women, the wage gap we're suffering from will not recover until the past one hundred and five years? I don't think we'll see any of us here. [[Applause]] The woman needs a specific plan from her department, and also the most disadvantaged groups, such as the long-term unemployed. We were talking about the jobs. I agree with everything you said about the employment offices, however; I just hope it will take place. Why do you know that, when Tourin was ruling, in the last budgets, 89 places of guidance for the employment offices had been set aside, which when the People's Party arrived did not cover them and which in the following budget they were removed? That's what the People's Party did in the field of employment offices. You are also aware of Sepe's transfers. In May 2020 we spoke of €4,260,380 for employment offices, which can be used on eight axes: computer software -- as you said --, pending opening systems, etc. We hoped you'd use them in what I was saying. And now the State, specifically the Ministry of Labour -- which so far -- has agreed with the autonomous communities and social agents on the individualized strengthening of unemployed by means of qualified personnel, devoting 550 million to new mentors and creating a centre of guidance, entrepreneurship and innovation for employment. This law needs you to stick to the new orientation plans. We hope they will, and we are looking forward, Counselor. I also want to say that the two-party government has formalized territorial employment pacts with active policy planning. You, upon arriving at the Galician Union, were abolished to carry out a client's offer without taking into account the training analysis and needs of the territory. There isn't now -- we hope that with its management it will be realized -- an instrument that will analyse the needs of the labour market. I don't have much time left, and I have to talk about equality too. I want to point out that there has not been or exists any new action in a year marked by the coward, which we know has -- a special impact on women and that they have increased very little by little the resources for 2021 for local conciliation programmes and for the promotion of co-responsibility measures, which is fundamental to the current scenario. In short, they are data, but there is a lack of evaluation necessary to develop policies that affect precisely where it is most necessary. Because, by setting an example, have you already thought about how to reverse or how to act so that this gender gap will not be produced again in the scientific production that took place during confinement, as the rectors in the Reactivation Commission have denounced? We're afraid not. [[Applause]] That's where our group sees the biggest problem. Once a needle is detected, you have to be able to act and be ready to give the best of the answers immediately. For all this, from the Socialist Group, we have asked you to do a remarkable assessment exercise and to be able to see the need to articulate public policies that guarantee a fair society where women do not have to lose the still insufficient space that with much effort, the result of the struggle that we've had before us, we've already achieved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u183	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Pérez López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u184	It's okay, Mr. Balsairo, you on my skate table -- that don't skate -- I would never ride. [[Applause]] And now, I'm serious...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u185	The mask.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u186	...--yes, sorry. -- I'm going to start my intervention, my replica, as I started an interpellation the other day: ten months without direct aid to small and medium-sized autonomouss, with closure or activity limitation, ten months! The Union, by responsibility and by commitment, should have acted. In any case, he also talks about the movement of funds; but if they moved, it's because they didn't run and, precisely, we're talking about games that were of aid to people affected by the ERE of force majeure and companies in crisis for nothing more and nothing less than 2,732,115 euros without running. He also spoke earlier -- that he didn't give me time before -- about the ERTE, about the advice that had been made since his area. It is not, of course, what they conveyed to us and what they transmitted to the autonomous and those who manifested themselves in October through the streets of Galicia, which spoke of confusion and lack of information. As for Issga, you were also talking about making performance guides for educational institutions. I'm not surprised, because, with the protocol changes that were just before the course started, it's normal that they needed those guides. I'm also surprised -- even though you told me that you left some things unnamed -- that you don't even name for nothing the unemployment data of November here in Galicia, which are demolitional. The number of unemployed registered in the employment offices rose to Galicia by 6,165 people. This means an increase of 3.4 % over the previous month, five times as much as the Spanish average, with 1 out of 4 new unemployed in the Spanish state as a whole. The reason we found it in the economic model of the PP, which the treasurer is showing her seams. Instead of betting decisively on our productive sectors and on our industry, since June, they have continued to promote dependence on the service sector, which unfortunately suffers from seasonality and job insecurity. And this service sector is what leads to unemployment, quantifying 4,600 people who lost their jobs in November. Your Honor, as far as job insecurity is concerned, having a job in Galicia is no longer supposed to be free to find itself in a situation of social exclusion. The dimension of social exclusion would be economic scarcity, understood as a lack of sufficient income or lack of income, and this relates directly to employment and the labour market. A well-remunerated stable work, a decent work, is essential for integration. That's why working instability understood as temporality is an element that generates vulnerability and exclusion, and this makes it essential for the Government of the Union to take corrective measures so that the Greeks can access a decent, stable and well-remunerated job; measures that have not been taken by the Union. So, we see as reports out of all doubt as Foesa's reports indicated before the pandemic that social exclusion is investigated in our society. This data, of course, after the pandemic, has not improved. Timeliness is a clear indicator of working precariousness. In November, the indefinite contracts were little more than 5,000, compared to the 56,000 tempores. That means the first ones went down in 1,535 in a month and the second ones, the temporal ones, went down in an amount of 10,254. On a cumulative basis, 98.86 % of contracts are temporary compared to 9,2 %, which in this case would be undefined. And I don't want to compare Galician data with the other territories of the state that are worse. It always compares, please, to the first ones of the class, not to those who go worse than one; or that they taught me always at home. [[Applause]] From the Galician Association of Self-Employers and the Sea they announce that membership of the RETA will be closed in November in Galicia with a negative balance of 1,700 self-employed less. Only the Galician hospitality sector loses 203 properties, and the small trade, 107. What's no less important is that they also denounce that there is a contradiction between the high news data as autonomous and the situation that's going through the traditional labour market. And they conclude with this that there is a transvasion to the labour market as false autonomous thousands of high news in the RETA; which could be controlled if the Board once advanced in self-government and claimed that the Spanish State assumes its own competences in this matter, as would the labour inspection. But, of course, it doesn't matter. And now Galicia lacks the right tools to detect these false autonomouss and thus correct that situation denounced by the different autonomous associations of the country. There are no continuing policies on employment and equality. Galicia needs a leading advisor, proactive and not a continuation of mediocre and conservative policies that are limited to bass, horse and king. The current situation requires courage. So they assume their responsibility for government at once, they advance in self-government and demand from the State the powers that are their own, such as those of inspection. Only in this way will the Greek Government be equipped with all the tools necessary to try to solve the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks. In a moment of crisis like the present is something vital to our people. They make brave decisions, because that's how to govern, and that's what the Greeks and the Greeks are demanding at this time of tremendous crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u187	Thank you, Mr. Pérez López. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u188	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I thank Mrs. Rodríguez and Mr. Pérez for her tone, I've told them more times in committee; it's nice to discuss it with them. And at all this, if Mr. Pérez allows me to play a joke, I will tell him that I have no problem riding on that skate you have, or on that table, but not on the skate, because on the skate I've already set up many more times, but because I don't see you as a pilot and it doesn't give me enough confidence to fly. I, who am a seaman, bound to the sea, wouldn't even climb it to you on the surf table. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Counsellor, here you have talked about many things, even if you have spoken of the Bipartisan Government. Both the Socialist Party and the Galician Nationalist Block must be proud of that government that lasted four years, but the Greeks told you to return to the opposition. We were told we had fewer resources than then in his counseling. The budget of its council is one of the largest; it grows by 32%; that is, it grows 18 points above the average of the Galician board, which is 14% and has 355 million euros, which is almost 100 million euros more by 2021 than by 2020. So, I don't know where the numbers come from, but it's just like comparing the numbers with the years 2008 and 2009, which were the years of beauties and the highest assumptions that had the Autonomous Community of Galicia itself... because then the assumptions came down from those years until 2014 and until 2015, and we got two thousand and a half million euros less in 2013 and 2014 than we had at that time. What you didn't say is that you got your bills wrong and left a hole of 2,000 million euros when you left the Government, who are still paying for the Greeks and the Greeks. So you can't compare that to the years 2008 or 2009, because that's a mistake. [[Applause]] They talked here about a lot of things, but, look, I've already told you more than once that the Socialist Party is a machine to destroy jobs in all the administrations in which it is. Look, I've got a picture here. Look... No, no, look: last government of Felipe González, 8 million unemployed; Government of José María Aznar, creates 4 million jobs; Government of Zapatero, 3 million unemployed; Government of Mariano Rajoy -- in full crisis, gentlemen, in full crisis!--, creates 2 million jobs. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Balseiro Orol shows a chart.]] I mean, I want to explain it better because maybe they'll understand it better: with Felipe González the unemployment rate was 20.5%; José María Aznar lowers it to 11.4%; comes Rodríguez Zapatero and raises it to 23%; and comes Mariano Rajoy and lowers it to 16%. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u189	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u190	And you talked about youth employment, so you did: with Felipe González, the youth employment rate, 39.2%; with José María Aznar, the youth employment rate, 22.9%; with Zapatero, the youth employment rate, almost 49%; with Mariano Rajoy the youth employment rate, 37.3%; and with Pedro Sánchez, the current youth employment rate is 40%. How can you talk about youth employment, gentlemen? How can you talk about youth employment?Oh, my God! Just like they talked about the information centers to the woman, who were municipalities. Of course they're municipal! But do you know who gives them 100 percent? The Galician Union; it finances 100 percent. And do you know which ones in Galicia are the only CIM that close? For those of a council that governs you with an absolute majority, which is Castro Caldelas, who has three judgments, in addition, against. You're like giving lessons from what you do! You even talked about work. Look, the unemployment in Galicia has been reduced to 30,000 since the current Government of Galician Union arrived. He increased the unemployment rate; the Bipartite tripled the current one, despite a much more favourable economic context than the current context. The last year of the Bipartite, 50,900 unemployed; the last year of the current Government, 17,000 unemployed. I mean, you've tripled it. But it's just that you can't give a job lesson, because if you give a job lesson or hide the data or, if you don't hide the data, you don't know them. Because...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u191	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u192	I don't know... the empanada... I don't know...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u193	No, it was him. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u194	I was going to say that the empanada is a typical Greek dish, you who... I like the smooth one; I don't know which one you like. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Look, and by ending with an encouraging job data, I'll tell you that in recent months we've recovered the total number of jobs lost in March and April: 42,900 memberships of Social Security. In other words, Galicia recovered 100 % of its employment from the state, which recovered only 66 %. And it's not a precarious job, as you say...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u195	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u196	...because 3 out of every 4 busy are undefined, and the number of undefined increases month by month against the fall of the set of Spain. You're talking...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u197	Thank you very much, Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u198	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We didn't have any more time to beat up, but that's what it is! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u199	On the doubling shift, the Employment and Equality Counsellor, Mrs. Lorenzana Somoza, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u200	Thank you very much. I'm going to answer some of the questions before I make the final intervention. Mrs Rodríguez, when I spoke about the transfer of the state of zero euros, I referred exclusively to direct aid to the sector, not to the fact that funds are obviously not transferred from the State administration to the Autonomous Community of Galicia. I meant that for two months the state announced that it was going to draw a strong aid plan for the hospitality sector, for the tourism sector. We've been waiting for two months and direct aids are zero euros. It's based on the benefits I've already been funding, it's true, on the workers in ERTE and it's based on the help it gives to the autonomous communities. I meant that. In any case, although it is true that the State is transferring funds to autonomous communities. But, in particular, I cover funds -- of what you were talking about -- Galicia received less than it was due to the percentage of population, which is quite surprising. You were talking about SEPE transfers -- in particular, to the employment offices --. Look, SEPE transfers this year had to have been 180 million euros, and Galicia only received 167 million euros. When you did your speeches, they said that in particular Galicia's employment policies did not implement funds well. This year, at the sectoral conference in October, Galicia was the only autonomous community that had committed 100 percent of the funds that had to be transferred, i.e. 180 million euros. We're going to pay 180 million euros. That is to say, the difference between the funds transferred from the State and what we are going to pay comes from the autonomous Community, which has to be managed because the funds that the State has promised are not coming. Mr. Pérez López, you're talking about the self-employed coming out of the street because of the confusion, and I'm not surprised, I'm not surprised. One thing is the benefits paid to self-employed people, and another thing is the treatment of ERTE. The autonomouss went out into the streets, and nearly the mutuals go out into the streets, because no one understands how the allowance is regulated by cessation of activity in the real decrees. But that has nothing to do with the treatment of ERTEs by the Autonomous Community. Whoever writes the rules, who has the legislative competence, is the state. We are the ones who execute those rules. The only competition that this council has as its labour authority is the processing of EREs and ERAs in the supposed force majeure; so, all those that were developed during this phase of the pandemic. And so we did, in record time -- I say -- and I don't thank this advisor or the general director, thanks to the entire team of public employees who were working and who pulled up 4 thousand ErTE files and, in addition, all ERTE files that had to be turned off below. [[Applause]] You say Galicia doesn't have the necessary tools to keep an eye on false autonomouss who seem to be producing themselves. In other words, the Labour Inspectorate develops its functions differently if it depends on the current Socialist Party in coalition that depends on the People's Party. I mean, you recognize that the Labour Inspectorate would do better if it depended on the People's Party here in Galicia that it depended on the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Social Security. Because, by the way, talk to some job inspector, because they still don't know where they depend. Labour inspection is divided between two ministries and, if you perform functions for Social Security, you will have to speak to Mr. Scrivá; and, if you have to perform functions at work level, you will have to speak to Mrs. Díaz. Labour inspectors are a body of officials about what I'm convinced they're doing their functions with absolute independence, and also -- it's worth redundancy -- regardless of what government they depend on. So don't say that these fake self-sufficients will not be inspected because they depend on the self-government or because they depend on the state administration. The autonomouss, it seems, went out on the street to speak against the board organization, against the board's proceedings, against the aid plan... Look, there's a president of an autonomous organization who is not only president here, at the Greek level -- they'll know who I'm talking about -- but he's general secretary of the autonomous organization at the national level. And he highlighted the important role that the Welsh Administration has played in relation to self-government. He textually said: "The Union has been able to meet the circumstances and has put in place the necessary measures and aid for the self-employed." If we arrive so late, if we do so badly, if it turns out that the board is doing so definitely wrong and it's not getting to anything, then the president of the autonomouss at the national level doesn't defend the autonomy and leaves for the Union. And it's precisely an autonomous organization that I don't think is at all suspicious of being in favour of this People's Party government. [[Applause]] Look, throughout these four intense months of government, I can assure you that we analyse, reflect, debate, investigate, document and talk about all the issues that we had to address. The result of this, of the hours spent in dialogue with the social partners in our community to know the different perspectives, to exchange perceptions, to find points of union, we decided not only to put in place this plan of autonomy, but the lines of which I have just spoken. The result of this is also why these organizations support the plans we draw from the Government, because they are not unilaterally made from the Government, but because they are made from the consensus. We are talking here of a bet to keep certain actions, but to maintain certain actions not to consolidate policies, but to maintain actions that are effective and that are shown to be effective. We're talking about pushing other actions that year after year increase their demand, because we can't stop training, because we can't stop training with commitment to recruitment, because we can't stop job workers showing year after year that contribute to employment and job integration. How are we going to talk about stopping programs that year after year are clearly contributing to the employability of the Greeks and the Greeks at a time of crisis? It's time to keep them and, if it's all right, increase them. And we're going to be able to increase them with the budget we're presenting. Besides, of course, we bring new projects. It's not therefore a policy of continuity against cowardice, it's a policy of maintenance of those programs that work and innovation in those projects that we believe we need to innovate to meet the new needs of the new economic and social context. They are not short-term strategic lines, although they occupy the budget of an annuality, but they are strategic lines that are designed for a medium and for a long term. We think that with the investment that we are going to be able to carry out this year 2021 and also in 2022 -- and in part with European funds -- we will be able to implement and reform -- as I tell you -- employment and equality measures. We invest much more than the Bipartite -- they like it or not -- in the matter of equality, twice. Only from the General Secretariat of Equality have we invested 30 million euros. The budget goes up by 10%, to which all the conciliation programmes of the Social Policy Council must be added, as were you, since the former Vice-Presidentship of Equality and Welfare. So we went up twice as much of the budget on equal terms as during the Bipartite. We have risen by 46% of the conciliation actions and the co-responsibility actions. The co-responsibility and conciliation budget is not lower. Of the 25 million of the Directorate-General for Labour Relations, two million are to be added only to work equality. The Directorate General for Training and Placement is going to invest -- as I tell you -- 6 million euros in reforming the entire Public Employment Service. We grew by 300 % on self-government and micro-enterprises. We found ourselves, finally, a year before this council and, of course, the whole of Galicia -- like all governments in the world -- faced with very important challenges, but I also believe that we have a real strategic organization, with consolidated proposals and proposals that are budgeted and with genuine planning. 2021 presents itself as an uncertain year, but we believe that the Greeks and the Greeks must also know that, although we are with an uncertain health and economic landscape, we count in our community with a stable government, with a solid government, with a responsible government, and that we are going to work every day of this legislation with the firm purpose of making Galicia a place of opportunity for employment -- for equal employment for women and men -- and, above all, a Galicia free from male violence. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u201	Thank you very much, Counselor. Now we move on to the next point, point six, of non-law proposals, and we start with the first one. Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantinos and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the European Funds Next Generation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u202	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u203	To formulate the Non-Law Proposition, you have the floor of Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u204	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Since the Galician Nationalist Block, today we are again insisting on bringing the debate to this House a question which we believe is fundamental: another initiative on the management and processing of European recovery funds. We do it again, with concern over the lack of information, transparency, clarity and, above all, the strategy of the Greek Government in a matter which we believe is fundamental to getting ahead of the crisis in which we are unfortunately inserted and inserted. We are going to a very uncertain economic context, which we know is going to be complicated and in which every resource will be little. If something has become clear in yesterday's budgetary debate, it is precisely that we know it will be the only expansive budgets of the legislation. We also know that not even the Government has all those resources with it that all those planned resources will come effectively. We know that later the cows will come weak and we will truly be aware of the dimension of this crisis of cowardice. Therefore, for us it is unacceptable to leave the functions we see in the People's Party government, which is more concerned with making announcements than to do its own duties. We would like them to be a little less drunk by an absolute majority and to stop walking like those without a head on this issue; and, by the way, also to stop taking this Parliament, this opposition and this country. We have insisted on other occasions and in this House on country proposals for a debate on this matter. We proposed on your day, in October, a presentation to address this in the German Parliament. The proposal has been vetoed. From there began the German Government with its figures dance. On 11 November we proposed specific criteria for Galicia to defend them against the allocation of European funds, and the same point. Other proposals followed the same fate. Even, without going further, fifteen days ago, in the control session to the President of the Galician Union, our national spokesperson, Ana Pontón, made a proposal to defend, on behalf of this country, that management must be territorialized and alerted to the danger of centralization that the government of Sánchez is already announcing. Mr. Feijóo -- in his line -- went out for peteresses. So we understand that until this moment basically what the Galician Union has done was to announce and ignore social institutions and organizations in our country of different kinds. I'm not just talking about what he does to the political forces anymore. We have discussed on other occasions what happened to this Reactivation Commission, in which the People's Party told us, tending to hand, that we would debate the fate of the European funds and have as much information as possible. In fact, the only thing we could see here is that not only does the opposition know nothing about this issue, but the universities have not reserved a role either. We know that the experts themselves consulted by the Galician Council recommend that this not be done, and we have seen all kinds of collectives living on the side of this great country debate that should be occupying us -- including the Economic and Social Council or the majority unions in this country --. In any case, we continue to appeal to this to be corrected, and we see as bad news that Mr. Francisco Conde is returning to the Reactivation Commission so as not to clarify anything. Because the truth is, he's here. He brought us a power point recompilation a few days ago with the generalities he told us, but he didn't announce or explain anything that wasn't previously concrete in the Galician board's public appearances. We sincerely believe that this country, this opposition, this Parliament, deserves greater respect. In that sense, we understand that you have given us a speech full of generalities, previously announced projects, or issues that are already in the daily management of Galician board, such as the construction of shelters or model villages. Of course, if the tractor project level for Galicia's board is to build some more hostel on Santiago's Way, we're very worried; as well we're worried about many inexplicable absences that we hear in that audience. In the face of the industrial crisis so important that we live in, it is surprising that sectors such as thermals, navals and energy transitions do not have a specific weight; nor do there be great debts in this country such as the healing of the rivers, which so many controversial ones played in these days. We are also concerned about being able to verify some technical solvency of the ads that are made. We've talked on other occasions about those large 50 megawatt hydrogen plants that experts say are unsustainable and that it would be better for a small-scale model. Or the question of the treatment and management of purins, which nobody escapes that it is a necessity to find a way out in this country and favor a circular economy and recycling, but of course, no one who is absolutely contrary to all the principles of non-contamination intends to move these pure ones into trucks, with tons of polluting liquid all over the country, as a great solution to a green economy. Of course, what reveals is a real lack of project, consistency and that there is improvisation, business with four selected companies and lack of dialogue, scientific contrast and future design. So today we want to insist on this issue which is so important to Galicia, and we do it with a proposal that has three very clear and very synthetic requests. First, transparency. I have here all the requests in Article 9 which has been made by the Nationalist Block Galego since the beginning of this legislation; specific requests for information from European advertising funds from Galician Union, and has not been answered the first. We therefore ask for something as elementary as it is immediately forwarded to the Greek Parliament more specific information. And I insist again: we are aware that there are aspects that cannot be revealed, that may be subject to the secret of professionals; of course. But between saying nothing and saying a headline there are many intermediate points that, of course, we understand that they would be possible. Secondly, a very clear question. We insist, fund management has to be from Galicia. It is essential to defend direct management on the part of our country in the face of centralism in which we know that Galicia would lose in the face of other territories, as in the past in such important sectors as the sea, the milk or the naval. And without going too long ago, we can see it in these last few weeks about the matter of fishing quotas. So what we ask for is simple: do not repeat past mistakes and have a clear position that Galicia should manage the funds that correspond to it. Because, moreover, there is a obvious contradiction: if territorialization was the way in which the European Union has so far distributed these funds -- other funds were previously handled -- because it seems unreasonable at this time that the administrations that have already worked with these funds stop doing so and that we have to go to the other model. That obviously doesn't take away our criticism -- that we're still doing in the morning -- the way the Galician Union has done that work. But, of course, if the skills are of Welsh matter, we don't go to a fiasco like some of the ones we live in during the state of alarm, where the state was assigned some functions that didn't compete with it, and in the end it had to rest them in communities because it wasn't able to do proper management. So, in short, what we ask today is this direct management, and we bring the initiative that the People's Party dares not bring, because the People's Party puts the Galeguist suit as it asks you to confront the Central Government and launch its campaign message of the day, but then, in truth, it's not demanding a rational management of European funds. So we don't know if last Friday he gave you permission to marry or not, we hope so, but the clear question we're proposing here today is: that some and others put aside centralist interests and obey this country. And thirdly, the last question that we propose comes in line with what we have been defending in recent months to debate and dialogue on the objectives, on the clear criteria and the strategic areas of action that our country needs, because the People's Party has already spent the words "consensus" and "unit" of so much use them, of so much appealing to them in this legislation, but the truth is that it is inversely proportional to the number of times it repeats them to the number of times it practices them. We understand that there are issues to be discussed in which this Parliament has to play a role -- some of them we have already stated on other occasions -- and in which we have set ourselves a goal. We, from the Galician Nationalist Block, make a proposal: the equivalent of 9% of the fund, 12,6 billion euros. But, in any case, we discussed it. What is not logical is having a government that starts from the starting point of going to the test without marking a target. Secondly, we understand that we must also talk about the funds that we are no longer receiving, about the impact that will have in the medium term on the cut-off of so-called traditional funds, and also about building a country strategy for that matter to be compensated. Let me give an example: the Fund for the Right Transition has been reduced, because this country will have to have a position on it. And finally, we also believe that the lines to be negotiated and the strategic projects to be defined, and so on, should have a role in this Parliament, because the German Government appeals to the consensus, to which it is open...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u205	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u206	...to receive new proposals, but the reality is that if these proposals are not made in this Parliament, I don't know where we want to make the proposals, because we're not the companies that you invite to talk about. In short, we play a lot as a country on this issue and we bring three very clear and necessary proposals that we believe should be unanimous. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u207	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor Mr. Francisco Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u208	Mr. President. Good evening to all, ladies and gentlemen. In fact, this is an issue which has already been debated in this Parliament, the instance of the BNG, insistently. It is an initiative where the PSdeG has a political position I think it is quite obvious, which reflects the amendment: the need for this country to build a unique position, where the political forces are involved, where the economic and social agents participate, where the fundamental actors of this country participate, and the university too; a country strategy that needs to be set up in a presentation, in a committee or in the body that is estimated, but a country position that reflects which projects this country is going to develop to be able to take over the funds; in this case, European funds. [[Applause]] Obviously, we are facing a question of a very important magnitude. We must also know and know the limitations that impose the management and execution of European funds. Galicia has no particularly positive dynamics in the execution of European funds. In relation to the R & D+i funds for the period 2014-2018, the unique Galician Union was capable of executing 25 %. They don't have much more capacity in the state either. I think we have a fundamental problem as a country to execute the funds. In this kind of debate that affects European funds, at last, everyone has their ideology, of course. I don't tell anyone to give up their ideology, however, it would be good to avoid free debates, from a biased point of view, that they will solve absolutely nothing and it would be good to focus on the reality of what funds are, how to get them and, of course, how to execute them. [[Applause]] It would also be good if we knew how this really works. We need to know the regulation and the management of funds at European level, which we still don't know, the need to know the criteria and the basis for defining the projects that have to assume this kind of fund and the need to know that these funds will be processed and managed through a single plan -- a state plan, a national plan, a recovery and resilience plan from state level -- where, therefore, autonomous communities must also participate -- Galicia, of course -- through a sectoral conference of European funds with autonomous communities. This was agreed at the Conference of Presidents, where Mr Feijóo was and where he was, in addition, the European Commissioner. Indeed, we have to be aware of how all this works. It's a fund of a huge magnitude -- 70,000 million --. The recovery and resilience mechanism for the Spanish state's set of non-refundable very axile execution funds -- in the period 2021-2022 they have to run 70% -- it's not easy. Projects must be properly defined. And we appeal to the House as a whole to sit on a commission, to form a position of country, a unique position that defines which interests Galicia, which are not the interests of the People's Party. You've won the elections, and nobody takes your legitimacy away from them, but you don't have the monopoly of the country. Here's more than a single thought, Mr. Tellado -- which is looking at me, so I challenge you --. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Laughter]] We are, of course, defending co-governance in European funds; we are going to defend it. It was announced that autonomous communities will manage 54% of the funds, of the initial 70,000 million, if we are able to capture them, if we are able to present projects that are able to absorb those funds. And the municipalities will also participate. We are aware of the difficulty, but we are also demanding. Galicia has to be in fund management, but we're going to be consistent, we're going to define projects capable of absorbing those funds, able to economically dimension this country, capable of cohesion this country. And that, of course, is done with a country position, with a position, if possible, negotiated with political forces, with economic agents and social agents. The position of the Union: 108 projects have been announced in relation to the funds in recent times and an aspiration to mobilise EUR 9.400 million in the public domain, in public-private collaboration. In parallel, we've been announced a reactivation plan of 3,000 million. I think there's plenty of propaganda here, plenty of publicity and, of course, little realism, and I say it with all honesty. At Mr. Conde's appearance in the Reactivation Commission last week -- comparability to the People's Party instance, which can appear as often as you think appropriate; our criticism goes not because the advisor appears, but because you see the appearance of experts requested by the opposition groups, who did not appear-- the Counsellor said absolutely nothing new. [[Applause]] If he said one thing -- or he posed a strategy -- that is to put the sale in front of an already designed strategy of confrontation with the government of the state basically inaction, failure of course, lack of strategy, failure of the model that the Union has in relation to European funds. It's 108 projects no one knows. Then he dissected in that audience the councillor several axes and assigned to each of the axes I don't know how many projects... but, ultimately, no one knows them. And you, Mrs. Noa, just showed here a PowerPoint, which is what the Counsellor referred to the Reactivation Commission and which is the same thing he sent to the Central Government: a sheet of Excel and a PowerPoint. That's what's been going on since Galician Union. So it seems good to me that the Galician Union -- and the People's Party -- to claim what criteria it uses or what government will use to define those projects, but with the same question we asked you for an answer: what are the criteria that it used for selecting the 108 projects? What are they? Who took part? Has the Committee of Experts participated in the definition of projects? Have the unions participated? No, no, no, no. They didn't participate or the economic and social agents, they didn't participate in the university, they didn't participate in the municipalities... they didn't participate, they just participate in the companies you're connected to and you're trying to... I don't think they don't even trust you anymore. [[Applause]] Anyway... Ladies and gentlemen, since the GSP we are aware of the magnitude of the funds for Galicia, we are aware of the need for a country position and we are aware of the future that this country demands if we are able to get the funds to come to Galicia, to define viable projects and to implement them. And we therefore call for less opacity, less singularity in the performance of the People's Party and more consensus, more dialogue and more positions of encounter with opposition groups, and especially with the political forces and the economic and social sectors of the country as a whole. The spokesperson for the Socialist Party tended to hold hands on various occasions; he did so in the Reactivation Commission and we do it again in this debate. We want to conform to a country position; to make up a presentation or what you think is convenient. That's our position. As far as the BNG initiative is concerned, we respect its position. Finally, it's an ideological position and we don't share a few issues that are cited in it. We do not share them, because it does not seem realistic that Galicia will receive 12,600 million, which actually consists of 9%, when Galicia's weight in the Greek economy is 6%. But we are prepared at the heart of the matter to enter into a serious debate, where Galicia has to be, indeed, demanding or viable projects that are good for this country. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u209	Thank you very much, Mr. Francisco Rivera. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Tellado Filgueira has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u210	Thank you, President. The truth is that Mr. Francisco Rivera's intervention was tremendously enlightening and has already saved me some of my work. Your intervention is summed up in the following -- you said it in lines -- that Galicia is going to touch a few funds because, as we misjustify European funds -- you say -- so, total, why? Mr. Francisco Rivera's first argument, which has already slipped him -- I suppose they sent him --. According to the argument -- this goes to you, BNG gentlemen -- : this is going to be managed centrally; it just said and publicly recognized, it was already in the Session Journal. Therefore, the rest of the debate is a coat of hair, Mr. Francisco Rivera, a real coat of hair! Galicia is going to play little, and it's done centrally by the Government of Pedro Sánchez since Moncloa. End of the quote -- summary of your intervention -- Madam Presas, what do you want us to discuss, what do you want us to discuss if we've been discussing since the PSdeG-PSOE are in charge of clarifying the issue? Mr. Francisco Rivera, you speak of a joint position of the country. Really? From the PSdEG-PSOE? Look, if you really want to defend Galician interests, we're the only ones we can tell you are welcome; welcome, because this would be the first time since that party's command -- well, it's a way of talking -- Mr. Gonzalo Caballero is interested in Galician interests. Because until now the only interest you've had has always been to defend the Government of Pedro Sánchez. Always! Always, in spite of everything. This is a debate that we have had on many occasions in full, in committee, in the Reactivation Committee... I have to tell you that the Galician Parliament has already spoken, liked or disliked, you or not participated. There is already an agreement in this Parliament in Galicia on these matters. It's true that you didn't want to know anything. And I'm sure they didn't want to know anything because the People's Party proposed it, because to a large extent they were in agreement with the agreement we put on the table. The mandate of this Parliament demands the Government of Spain transparent criteria, objective and objective criteria for the allocation of funds, based on three principles -- let us say it here and discuss it here -- : the principle of subsidiarity and co-governance, the principle of competitive competition and the principle of social and territorial cohesion; designing a map of aid consistent with the reality of different territories and taking into account factors such as: income levels per capita -- do you agree?--, the percentage of population living in rural areas -- do you agree? -- do you agree -- the demographic challenge -- do you agree? -- and the industrial transition -- do you agree? -- do you agree? --. Yes, however, they voted against it. This is the PSdEG-PSOE, which takes the fall into defense of Galicia's interests. [[Laughter]] Look, these breakdown principles that the Galician People's Party defends -- and we call on Pedro Sánchez through this Parliament -- are also the criteria of division that he is demanding the European Union repeatedly from the Member States. It is not that the Galician People's Party says so; it is that the European Commission itself has stood up demanding this type of criteria. Last sample. See, after the meeting of the autonomous presidents and the President of the Government with the President of the European Commission on 2 October, the European institutions defined a co-governance framework, establishing that -- and I open quotes -- : "the regional authorities must be properly consulted and involved in the allocation of funds in line with the national legal framework". Well, to Mr. Pedro Sánchez, this doesn't matter and he's already said he's going to do the opposite. Instead of working together to create a common front that defends Galicia's interests and prevents the Government of Pedro Sánchez from deceiving Galicia again, they cling again and again to the mantra of making European projects public. We don't know the criteria, but you want us to put the cards up front without knowing how those projects will be evaluated and prioritized. Do you know the projects managed by the Government of Spain? Who did you consult with? With no one! Do you know the projects of other autonomous communities? No, because no one makes it public until you know the rules on fund-sharing. So, what are we accused of, are we not supposed to make public projects in which we must ensure that they are competitive in the community where we compete? Look, we still don't know the distribution criteria, we don't even know the mechanism through which these funds will reach the autonomous communities, but for you the only priority is to know the details, names and names of each of the first 108 projects presented. The general lines were presented by the councillor -- by the second Vice-President of the Galician Council -- in this Parliament. We all know them, there's a document delivered. What do we want? Put the cards up front, why? So we can be fired and excused to blame the Galician Union for the failure of a distribution of funds that the Socialist Party intends to do against Galician interests. Look, they're very concerned about how much in the BNG, but they're very little worried about how; and how, for today, it's most important not to set a number. You're very interested in fixing a quantity so that then we can get that money and blame the Galician board for it being little. That's the point! [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] In the end, the problem with the BNG is that you need to blame the Galician Union and the Galician People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u211	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u212	...of an unfair distribution of funds to be perpetrated by the Government of Spain. [[Murmurs.]] Look, you and we know perfectly what's going to happen: you need an excuse to be able to blame Junta for what Pedro Sánchez's government is going to do, because none of the groups -- not even the PSdEG-PSOE -- trusts the government of Pedro Sánchez, because whenever he could punish Galicia, as long as he did. That's the reality. You have to stick to any excuse to justify what will happen to the distribution of European funds: that will be shared by political criteria. And I don't say so, said the president of the government himself by creating a political cabinet for the management of these funds. Here is a commission of experts; an commission of independent experts, that's the difference. [[Murmurs.]] So, look, here the funds will be divided by political criteria which will without doubt favour Mr Sanchez's priority partners. And among those priority partners is no longer the Galician Nationalist Block -- the Galician People's Party has never been --. Look, the failures of the Government of Pedro Sánchez with Galicia all know them; everyone, that's reality. The Government of Pedro Sánchez betrayed Galicia whenever he could, with the applause of his palm trees in the PSdEG-PSOE and with the help -- sometimes quiet, sometimes noisy, but always complicit -- of the Nationalist Block of Galicia. You made president. Look, I could read the list of continued aggravations from the Government of Spain to Galicia since Pedro Sánchez arrived at the Moncloa. I will save you, Mr. Aranguena, because you are not in this debate. [[Murmurs.]] But if you want, we're talking, because it's continued, since the general budgets of the State of 2019, which have not prospered, to the lower budgets of the year 2021, which punish Galicia with a cut of 11%. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Budgets grow in the state as a whole and fall into Galicia; that's reality. They still owe us the last month of the EVI of 2017; they've been unpaid for two years. So don't get people's hair, 'cause they don't fool anyone anymore.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u213	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u214	Dear Lord Arunguena's Christmas spirit! You see... [[Applause]] [[Applause]] We regret that, in the face of the continuing betrayals of the Government of Spain to Galicia, the Nationalist Block of Galicia is a necessary accomplice to that betrayal, because they always choose that path. Any excuse is good not to reach the shoulder and not to face directly with the PSdEG-PSOE, with whom they rule in councils and deputies. What the Galician Nationalist Block wants is to preconstitute evidence to be able to say that they have already said it and that the Union is as guilty as the Socialist Party; to say so much about the BNG of ["PSOE and PP, the same shit is"]. Do you know what's going on? [[Expression taken from the Journal of Sessions by the speaker who made it.]] That with that PSdEG-PSOE shit, it's with whom you cogobernan-- that's the reality. We, if we had that concept of PSdEG-PSOE, wouldn't rule with them anywhere. [[Applause]] No, I don't share that statement. [[Murmurs.]] You'll understand that I don't share that statement, because we don't pronounce it. [[Murmurs.]] What I'm telling you is who shares it is that party. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Let us not forget that the Galego Nationalist Block of Ana Pontón has made president the most centralist president of Spain's democratic history. I have made the president the most centralist president of Spain's history!, the most harmful to our community and the state of autonomy; that not only diminishes our resources, but attacks the principles of our self-government. [[Murmurs.]] They may be proud of their nationalist agenda so committed to Galicia and that ultimately follows the dictates of left Republican of Catalonia and Bildu. Nothing more and thank you very much. I'll give you the phrase so you can keep it quiet, Mr. Arunguena. I said they criticize us, just like you, so I can say that phrase that they so often crack in demonstrations...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u215	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u216	...of ["PSOE and PP, the same shit is"]. And I added, if I thought the PSdEG-PSOE... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u217	Thank you, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u218	...it was shit, I would never rule with you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u219	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u220	So I'm not the one who assumes that claim. [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u221	Quiet. Mr. Tellado, anyway...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u222	If they leave me, I appreciate it. Because the one who has to lead the debate on this occasion is me, and I always let those who are talking end up, although sometimes he doesn't share what they say. Mr. Tellado, although we already know exactly what he said, I ask him... yes, we all know, we are aware. [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] It is clear what the meaning was, but I ask you to withdraw that statement in order to avoid misunderstandings. Even though I understand his meaning, I ask him to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u223	I've already said that I don't share it and so if I don't share it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u224	Well, if you take it away, I appreciate it, or if you don't, we'll take it away.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u225	If instead of sharing it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u226	No, but it's already...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u227	If you want me to take it off, I'll take it off, so everybody's quieter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u228	Okay. Well, if we take her away, I appreciate it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u229	The sense of expression became perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u230	I know, but to avoid anyone's suspicions... [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Come on. Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado. I thank you forever. [[Applause]] For the author group of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Presas Berganginos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u231	Thank you, President. If I could ask for a wish from New Year's, I would ask for a minute that in the evening, instead of speaking to us the monarch of Spain, they could issue two things at first time: the Christmas announcement this week of Mr. Feijóo and then the microreality in which we live in this Parliament, where the same ones who defend consensus practice scenes like that of Mr. Tellado. The truth is, at least those we're here will help us not sometimes to feel in a parallel world. Look, I'm just saying an initial question, for leaving things clear. Defending self-government is, in fact, ideological, a political position. We're also in parliament. But it's also political and ideological to defend everything against self-government. That is everyone with where he stands! Mr. Tellado said, of course, that with some co-governance. Well, look, with others, we have a glove. That's what you have, which, according to the matter, this political organization is always in what you think is best for Galicia. And if sometimes we have to deal with the devil, because it's agreed. [[Applause]] That's the point, of course. The problem is that self-government has to be something we try to exercise, especially those who govern. That's the point, of course. But even today in that Congress of the Members of this House who are so obsessed and obsessed with living, an initiative by the Nationalist Block of Wales was voted on to transfer the oceanographic centres of Coruña and Vigo, something which has been voted unanimously in this Parliament many times. And they voted in favour of their groups? No, they didn't vote for it! Of course, the question is when we speak of self-governance as a rhetorical element that remains very well to celebrate ephemerides of our agenda but not to try to practice it because Mr. Casado or Mr. Sánchez doesn't give us permission. [[Applause]] If that's why you want us to vote together, Mr. Tellado, vote something here so that then you don't defend it elsewhere, because, of course, who is complicit in burying self-government and that Galicia loses opportunities, it's you, it's not us. He spoke, of course, of the initiative they had brought on their day to defend the criteria. Look, they brought this initiative in response to a BNG initiative because they could no longer justify not bringing any criteria here, Mr. Tellado. But the point is, you're trying to justify giving information from the 108 projects, of course, in criteria of industrial secrecy, etc. But there are many more questions to be transparent and to talk about besides projects. [[Murmurs.]] Why didn't you accept that there was a job presentation? Why, when the leader of the first force of opposition calls for Mr. Feijóo not to laugh and pick up the phone, don't they take it seriously? I believe that this country must be proud that, indeed, this consensus, which you both appeal to in your Christmas videos, is seen in situations like the pandemic. In situations like the pandemic here in this country we've done something extraordinary and completely assertive like suspending some elections. Why couldn't we have a country position on certain issues? Of course, you do preconstitute evidence. Yes, they preconstitute evidence for you, because the only thing they're interested in is having a more arian element to self-justify themselves and to kick the central government because it's not Mr. Married. It's the only thing that motivates them: not having an ambitious country strategy to get projects, Mr. Tellado. And, of course, they then make criticism that Mr Sánchez is that he wants a political cabinet to decide on the funds. Well, hey, just like the Commission Next Generation that you legalize in that law that you introduced in the morning. It's a political body, it's a political body disguised as a technician! Man, please! They do the same thing as Mr Sánchez: to hide, to look into the technique to justify political decisions. [[Applause]] Because whoever has the last word, even though he supposedly relies on other committees, it's the board of committees. What surprises me is that the Socialist Party abstained from that law, but at last that is the issue. Look, Mr. Tellado, you have to decide if you're going to rule thinking best for Galicia and have those positions -- even if you have to join us on one occasion -- or if all you're going to take them to decide is the electoral campaign strategy with Mr. Sánchez. That's all they have to decide. Of course, I remain very restless with a question. Here Mr. Rivera said the pamphlet they gave us the other day is what you presented in Madrid. I'm glad you deny it with your head, because it's a document that you've left to forward to the Reactivation Commission. [[Mrs. Presas Berganginos is showing a document.]] We're still waiting, that's document number 37. I asked Mr. Count if this was what they were going to send us or not, and he didn't answer. Of course, I hope this piltrafa wasn't introduced to her, because then it's normal for her to laugh at you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u232	About the amendment, please...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u233	...who laughs at you, Mr. Sánchez. As for the amendment, we are not going to accept it because we understand it lowers the issues we propose, and we appeal to the People's Party once again, and to the Socialist Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u234	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u235	...that they defend territorialized management for Galicia because we understand that point is fundamental.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u236	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We moved on to the next non-law proposal. Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and three other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government and the actions to be carried out in relation to the title, maintenance costs, management system and plan of uses of the peace of Meirás
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u237	This motion for a non-law has tabled all the amendments which may be tabled: a self-amendment, one of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and one of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u238	Mr Bará Torres has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u239	Good afternoon. "To change the story is not enough, but often it was fundamental to achieve real changes. Making a visible and public wound is often the first step to remedy it. And what has been gone for a long time, now becomes intolerable. What you've missed before, now becomes obvious. This means that every conflict is, in part, a battle over history that we tell, or about who counts and who is heard." This quote belongs to this book by Rebecca Solnit: Hope in the Dark. The story never told of people's power. [[Mr. Bará Torres shows a book from the stage.]] And it comes in very much to the case of what we're talking about because it's also talking about this picture, this photograph, an image of a large group of people who manifested themselves in the year 2007 asking for return, asking for justice, asking for dignity, while someone despised their struggle. [[Mr. Bará Torres shows a photograph from the stage.]] But this struggle was absolutely fundamental to change history and we want to recognize it here, it's the real heroes and heroes of the struggle for the recovery of Meiraes' palace. [[Applause]] And that's why we propose or ask, or we suggest, that the first act to be done there is precisely to pay tribute to these people, to whom most have fought from the beginning all the time to get here. Because sometimes it's the small groups of people, of humble people, who can change history. And they managed to change the story. And it's also the time to recognize who has fought most since the investigation, like the people who have made this book, like Carlos Babío and Manuel Pérez Lorenzo, who have worked what is not written for more than a decade, researching all sorts of files, compiling more than 80,000 documents, to put them in a tray to the institutions so that they could also demand the return of Meirás's palace. They deserve recognition and honor forever from the Greek people. [[Applause]] And they deserve, above all, support because they are being harassed and denounced by the Franco family, who has filed several demands with them. As they are also harassed and denounced by the Franco family the 19th anniversary of Meirades, for those who ask for a trial and nothing more and nothing less than 300 years of imprisonment. This is, of course, the world in reverse, is justice in reverse, because whoever should sit in front of a court of justice is the Franco family, it is frankism, for stealing, for extorting, for murder, for mistreating the people of this country. But no, they don't have to sit in court the Franco family, but they have to sit in court the ones who fight against frankism. These are the things of this model transition that you want to sell us. The transition and its derivatives. If not, how can you explain, for example, the paradox that the Franco family enjoyed the palace of Meirás for longer than the dictator himself, than the dictatorship itself? This, of course, is a democratic anomaly, as it is a democratic anomaly which, after more than forty-two years of such a modelly democratic constitutional regime, it turns out that this family continues to enjoy the noble titles, which are a genuine democratic aberration, the reign of Meiras and the dukedom of Franco. These noble titles granted by the monarch, heir to franchiseism, and legitimized, successively legalized, by all governments of the State over forty years. This is also to think, to reflect. Because, in addition, they are titles that have the Greatness of Spain. If this is Spain's greatness, they stay with Spain and with its greatness. It's a real misery. [[Applause]] And now that this great historical achievement has been achieved, this great step forward, thanks to the struggle of so many people for so long, it turns out that the Union and the People's Party are attempting a real perverse operation that consists of creating a curtain of smoke, once again, to try to whiten out franchiseism. And I have to say this, unfortunately, Counselor. Operation "Pardo Bazán", operation "Faro of Equality" is a curtain of smoke, an attempt to whiten Frankism and the same familiar artimanim that you have done with the island of San Simón: dismounting a project of historical memory also inventing, as now, the Isle of Thought to dismantle the Isle of Memory, and which has remained in nothing. Because there you can do everything. It may be the island of the poets, it may be the island of the pirates, it may be the island of literature, it may be the island of the yincans, it may be the island of the search for treasure, it may be the island of the Halloween party to live moments of terror on the island of San Simón. It still offends the memory of the people who suffered so much there...! It could be anything but an island for historical memory. Well, you know why? Because you have an aversion, aversion to the study of the democratic history of the anti-Francist struggle, and that's why they don't consent, and that's why they're able to invent anything to cover up that theme. And this for us is very dangerous and very pernicious. First of all, because it involves the trivialization of evil, the trivialization of evil and the trivialization of evil. There's been a lot of writing about this. Secondly, because it bleaches frankism. Third, because it offends the memory of the victims. And fourthly, because it fakes history. This is the known roadmap of the People's Party, which unfortunately decided to go free. First, in a parliamentary agreement they took unilaterally without counting on the other political forces and then presenting this plan of uses, which you introduced yourself, Counsellor, on December 11 at the Pardo Bazán museum house, which we can say is above all a plan of historical anti-memorial. Because for you the historical memory here passed by, passed by, occupied six lines. And yet you, Mr. President of the Board, dare speak of selective memory. The president of the board spoke of selective memory, the president of the board spoke of the palace where he sometimes passed by, summer -- he called it -- "General Franco." He had to call it "the Most General Franco" by now. The president of the board, moreover, feels compassion for the Franco family, who has just lost a palace. We can't be bothering them now, too, you poor bastards! And you know what we tell them? That's all right! That's enough with this attitude and these practices and these decisions! And that's why BNG brings here a clear proposal that we've already brought before the Commission. First of all, we think that we should give this palace to Galicia, to Galician Union. Secondly, we think there must be a shared management between different institutions that have to see in the recovery process, all institutions. And there must of course be a place, too, in an advisory council -- or in the formula that is considered -- for the entities and experts who worked to get here too. And thirdly, while there's no final judgment, there has to be a plan of uses that contemplates and tells the whole story of that place, which is a historic place, as the BIC statement says. First of all, their origin as the residence of Pardo Bazán. Secondly, the time that was the residence of a dictator, a bloodthirsty dictatorship. So you have to count repression and spole. We should not be afraid to tell the story, because knowing the story is good, to benefit us. History, for evil and for good, for all things, is beneficial; because a society that knows history is a more coherent and stronger society. Third, to know the history of the policeman, of the extortion, of the robbery perpetrated there, and also of what happened in the transition, to explain what I said before, and also to tell how this heroic struggle process was for the recovery of the palace of Meiraes, which is one of the great epic stories of this century of the Greek people, and it will be one of the great stories of this people in this century. And that's why we also propose, through an amendment, that it be made clear that historical memory, that historical memory recovery, should be a central axis of the future of the use of Meirais palace when it is finally recovered -- that it is not --. And it can also be a place to study dictatorships, to study fascisms, from a perspective not only Welsh but international. In short, Meirás has to be a living class of coexistence and intelligence...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u240	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u241	...a school of democracy, of justice and of collective dignity, the antithesis of what has been for all these eighty-two years. It's the starting point too to develop once and for all -- we follow it by asking here -- a public policy of historical, democratic, anti-fascist, Galician memory. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u242	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr Arangéna Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u243	Thank you, Mr. President. It hurt me that Mr. Tellado questioned my Christmas spirit and it is true that this morning I did not congratulate Christmas on the wings and members of the Vox section of the People's Party of Galicia. And to show my commitment to the Christmas spirit, I want to make my Christmas congratulations expressly to the members of the Vox section of the People's Party. Also Mr. Tellado, by the way, even if he's not here. [[Applause]] Going to the subject, as we know, a recent sentence, dictated by the Court of First Instance number one of the Crown, declares the nullity of the titles of acquisition of the palace of Meiraes by the dictator Francisco Franco. The demand prompted the progressive government of Spain, not the Union, which had no legal capacity to do so, first of all, but never had political will until there was a socialist government in Madrid. And it's a historical judgment that opens the door for the recovery of a good that has been fraudulently obtained by the dictator taking advantage of his privileged position of total state rule, a good of which the dictator enjoyed more than three decades and of which he continued to enjoy his family until the present. And the bill of sale in 1938, recovered in early 2019 by the state lawyer, was the key to that resolution. Without that writing, there would be no judgment. This is a target data. Everything else will be questionable, but without that writing there would be no judgment. And it was found by the Attorney General of the State, politically driven by a progressive government. [[Applause]] And, I reiterate, if it were not for that writing, following instructions from this progressive government, it would not be possible to recover the title of the good for the State, after the declaration of the nullity of the transmissions in favour of the Franco dictator. Because that writing was obtained, as I said, in early 2019 in the archive of Notary Protocols of the Coruña and it was the one that dismantled the ambush devised by the dictator and that it would prevail, let's say, until that moment. It was the progressive government of Emilio Pérez Touriño who declared the well-declared palace of cultural interest, which was the first step to his recovery, it was not the government of Mr. Fraga who vice-presided Mr. Feijóo, was the two-party progressive government. [[Applause]] What he did in 2011 Mr. Feijóo's government was agreed with the Franco Foundation to open the palace for four days a month, and to allow that foundation for years to apologize the dictatorship on guided visits to that immovable. So all he did to Junta in this matter was come to an agreement with the Francisco Franco Foundation and allow the dictatorship to be apologized there for years. The judgment itself collects, as a fundamental fact to dismantle the argument of peaceful and uninterrupted possession by the dictator's family, a relationship of historical movements developed in favour of the recovery of good by the State. Among those, on page 384 -- the fifth legal basis -- is referred to as -- and I quote literally -- "in February 1978 a proposal by the Socialist Party is made public for restitution to its legitimate owner and his conversion into the seat of the future self-government." That is, forty-two years before this judgment and forty years before the Galician Parliament called for the recovery of the peace, the Socialist Party had already demanded the recovery of that good and even proposed that it be the seat of the future self-government, while the political predecessors of the current PP were questioning democracy and opposing that self-government. [[Applause]] On the basis of the above, our proposal, by way of amendment, to the proposal by the BNG -- and as it has already been -- is that a study commission in the Galician Parliament is created in which, with the participation of public, private and physical institutions involved in the recovery of the peace, the use and management of the case and the time when the judgment of the judge is confirmed in favour of the State, giving priority, in any case, to the uses related to historical memory, to the historical democratic memory. Because, as much as some want to escape from the democratic memory and prioritize the use associated with the legacy of Emilia Pardo Bazán, the most recent and significant history of the palace is associated with the fact that Francisco Franco was a corrupt, in addition to a coupster and dictator who, by his actions, caused the death of hundreds of thousands of victims in our country, the exile of so many others and the repression of so many more; a corrupt who was able to force the citizenship of the corrupt county to pay to give him the peace of Meirás and simulate judicial operations to put good on his name; a corrupt that, according to the historian Angel Viñas, had already massacred in 1940, a fortune of 38 million pesetas at that time, which amount to 400 million euros today. [[Applause]] And, in addition, once the judge facilitated the precautionary measure requested by the state's lawyer to invent and keep the content of it in its own court, we knew that this content is partly composed of objects that are also part of the state heritage, which shows that the dictator was, in addition to corrupt, a genuine plunderer. [[Applause]] And the robbery, the robbery and the plunder of Meiraes' palace is just one more example of that corruption that has generated the Franco family, a huge heritage that still lives today. Few years ago, President Da Junta said, "I think the Galicians are not for the task of paying twice the peace of Meirás, we paid it in the year 38 when we gave it to the family." The words that the Greek president used -- "donation" and "we pay the Galicians" -- are not free, since they assumed a valid and legitimate donation, which is just the opposite of what the sentence says, exactly what breaks the sentence. Moreover, the President of the Board assumes that the palace has been opened to the public under his mandate, and even allowed to criticize the left for not having done so when he was in front of the Board; a more evidence of his enormous cynicism in this matter, as in so many others, since it was the Bipartite Government who declared the peace as good of cultural interest and what established the relevant regime of public visits, through the Francos against that decision, which could not be legally executed until 2011 -- already ruling the PP --. But it was, of course, the Bipartite Government that made it possible to open the palace to the public through its declaration as well of cultural interest. And Mr. Feijóo's board didn't move a finger to prevent the Francisco Franco Foundation from taking control of the public promotion of the palace, despite the fact that this foundation is dedicated to making the apology of franchise, which is precisely its social object. [[Applause]] And the facts betray the words of Galicia's PP on this subject over and over again, since three years ago the plenary session of the Crown Congress approved a motion to urge the Board to prevent Meirás from adopting the apologizing of franchise, in which the PP abstained. There was also another one, in which the Government of Greece was asked to join the Peace Pro-Devolution Board, as it was already in the Commission for the Recovery of the Historical Memory of the Coruña the Deputation itself, the University of the Coruña and the Councils and political formations, and the PP, again, abstained. And so on, so on. So first of all, we didn't sell the skin of the bear before hunting it. The sentence is the fruit of a fine, complicated and complex legal work, and of a great deal of political will, but it is not firm. And it turns out contrary to the logic and premature to ask the State to transfer the title of the palace when next year there may be a judgment contrary to that of the first instance. And secondly, let's not advocate naively putting the peace in the hands of those who would like to make a theme park if I didn't know what kind of guy to forget about and distort the democratic historical memory. Because his historical memory is quite different from what we can have both PSOE and BNG. [[Applause]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u244	Thank you very much, Mr. Aranguena. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia, Mr. Puy Fraga has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u245	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, in democratic policy, and particularly in parliamentary policy, there are times for confrontation. They are the most, and that's the essence of democracy: debate, contrasting ideas and politics. But there are also moments for unity and agreement. These moments are when, as a society, we share common goals and together, working together, even though it is to a different extent over time, we achieve that shared goal. Today is, or should be, one of these last days, a day of joint celebration for a collective success, for an achievement explicitly desired by all groups of this chamber at least since 2017 and an achievement which, by its symbolism, acquires a historical dimension. Probably, as writer Méndez Ferrín said a few days ago, he would deserve to be eternally in an academic painting of history, because that's, and not anything else, the box of delivery of the keys of the palace of Meirás to the representatives of the estate of the running state of, indeed, a judgment that is not yet firm. He said it was a success for everyone, but that doesn't mean that it's all the same merit for this success. And that's why it must, first of all, give thanks to those who deserve it most. First of all, who they've done for the longest time to get to Meirades' recovery. Among those who stand out, we congratulate and thank the work of the people and memorialist entities who over the last four decades have been meaning with historical lucidity in the return of the palace of Meirás and in ending the impunity of the public property spousal that the dictator and his family have done; a spousal and appropriation of public goods still provisional today but already confirmed by justice. And we must, secondly, congratulate and thank the work of the historians who for a long time have dedicated their research effort to demonstrate with academic rigour the facts that enabled the Franco family to approve the so-called "Torres de Meirás" of the so-called "Torres de Meirás"; the historians who, more generally speaking, also documented the events that happened in Galicia during the final period of the Second Republic, during the coup d'état that tried to put an end to its success and during the subsequent civil war, that war that Julian Marías, another reprisaled for his republican militancy, said we cannot forget because forgetfulness exposes us to its repetition. And also for later and lasting personal dictatorship, the longest personal dictatorship in European history. Indeed, thanks to research like Carlos Babío and Manuel Pérez about Meirades, but to many others, such as the professors Núñez Seixas or Fernández Prieto, who followed the star open by other historians such as Ramón Villares or Justo Beramendi, today we advance in the knowledge of the history of modern and contemporary Galicia. And many learned, and we learned, that much of the Spaniards were, and we were, in the past hostages of the account built by franchiseism itself, how it actually happened -- and today we know -- in relation to Meirás; a general account that extended a cloak of silence over what happened in the Franco-Cranquist rearguard, in the call of the men-front historians of the winners of civil war; a man front in which, according to the logic of military coups, he acted hierarchically and with civil implications for repression, even sometimes -- few -- also hiding personal vengeances, with the objective of replacing and eliminating the elites who held power during the republic, and trying to legitimize the violent change through a cover of violence under the appearance of legality with summary judgments or retroactive laws, or causing terror at the basis of dehumanizing the enemy. And of course, networks of complicity were established with passive collaborators who would guarantee over time the pact of silence. Today we know all of this, and we know many other things that happened in the other men fronts, both the winners and the losers. But this was ours, and we don't want to whiteen it. Many of those who preceded us in political militancy and much of the Spanish and Galician society did not know or could not know. Very likely there was an attempt to forget with the good intention of not reopening wounds and staring at a future of agreement where the rule of human life was rather than the exception. But today we know, and precisely because we know that since 2017 we've adopted an attitude towards the Meirás problem that I've cited since then -- and then I think I've repeated it some time since this gallery --. Writer Sacha Batthyány discovered, investigating the past of his family, that one of his predecessors had participated directly in the massacre of Jewish prisoners at the end of World War II. And he said that every generation has its own obligations. The generation of the children has retreated to remove the debris from the streets, and removing the debris from the soul is the task of the grandchildren. That is, of us, of our generation. It was no other motivation that led us, consistent with the explicit convictions to the Frankish regime -- which the People's Group supported in this House in 2008, 2015 and 2016 -- to support since 2017 -- the same year, by the way, in which the book of Babío and Pérez was published -- the legal actions necessary to restore Meirás' palace to the public heritage. And it wasn't easy to get to this point, to get here. The time has passed and the initiatives that have been mentioned, despite the fact that there have been twenty-three years of progressive governments, demonstrates it. It wasn't easy to declare the BIC palace -- you know it, as a member of Mr. Touriño's government, but as the principal responsible for the first step in the recovery of the Meirás palace with the BIC declaration of that property --. It was not easy to find the necessary legal argument to win the first sentence. Even in 2018, both National Heritage and State Lawyer have seen no possibility of establishing any judicial action to recover the palace. And it wasn't politically easy to reach agreements on this, either, because it's true that past attitudes have generated in many of you in opposition mistrust towards us. But I think that today the facts -- that always overcome prejudice -- speak for themselves. In 2017, alone, we urged the commission of experts created by the Board, which has drawn up -- since plurality and technical rigor -- a proposal for legal action that called for the unanimity of this House in July 2018 to urge the State to take the appropriate legal actions for the restitution of Meirás, a dictation that, as the State's own Advocate General, Ms. Consuelo Rey, has changed the position of the State Counsel, along with the fundamental documentary support of the historians Babí and Pérez. This legal action was effectively reinforced by the documentary contribution of the notary, by the General Council of Notaries, by the State Counsel, which was the document of transmission of the palace in 1938. This legal work has made it possible -- in the words of the state's general lawyer -- to review legally seemingly untouchable situations, with support -- of course, in judicial instances -- of all administrative bodies governed by all colors -- of the Union, of the Sada Town Hall and of the Crown Deputy --. And that's why the third job that deserves everyone's recognition is that of the jurists, who through the committees created by the Deputy, by the Board, by Parliament and also by the State's Counsel, have fabricated the demand that was won in the first instance. Because, ladies and gentlemen, despite its lack of firmness, the sentence is a legal victory that demonstrates two things: firstly, the moral superiority of democracy and the rule of law over dictatorship; and, secondly, it gives courage to political unity to win battles that seemed impossible to win. [[Applause]] Today, when we think of the uses of the palace of Meirás, we propose unity again. The sentence is not firm, and the division can once again favor the appellants, something we do not want any of those present in this room. It shouldn't be hard to make a deal. In some ways, the fundamental uses, as you exposed in your intervention, are already determined by the BIC statement made in 2008. These are uses related to the history of a real estate that is and should always be linked to the personality of Mrs. Emilia Pardo Bazán, who conceived and erected the so-called Meirás towers, and of course to the figure and regime of who usurped that property and maintained it until today. They are, of course, compatible uses with which the people of Sada themselves and their people want to give them for cultural or playful uses. We are open to trading, Mr Bará, with the objective of maintaining the unity of the House in the configuration of the uses of a property that we hope to integrate quickly and definitively into the public heritage, and that we ask it to be transferred to the Union even though it is only as a gesture of restitution to the people who have suffered the confiscations and looting directly at the beginning of the Frankish regime; a definitive delivery which must be a symbol of justice, moral superiority of democracy and also a symbol of the capacity of the generations of the Greeks of the present so that -- paraphrasing Todorov -- our historical memory works in exemplary and liberating manner, so that the injustices of the past allow us from today onward to correct the injustices of the present. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u246	Thank you very much, Mr. Puy Fraga. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Bará Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u247	The truth is that it sounds good to talk about overcoming confrontation and seeking agreement and consensus. What a beautiful word "consensual" if it were true! What happens is that you have to apply the story. Because at what point were you seeking consensus when, unilaterally, they went for free, they approved in Commission 1st against everyone, because you were here against everyone -- an initiative that suggested centering the uses of the palace of Meirás exclusively on the figure of Pardo Bazán? Or, if it wasn't exclusively, it was in the ninety percent peak, which has been the same. When were they looking for a consensus? Or at what point were they looking for consensus and agreement when they presented the plan of use of May 11th of December -- who presented it, in addition, the counsellor at Pardo Bazán's house-museum --? It was an anti-use proposal as a historical memory, and in addition to the document -- a document that, well, I don't know how to qualify, but manifestly improved -- includes some occurrences such as, for example, dedicating gardens to a fashion gateway. Of course, as it was about equality, it might have seemed to them that it was a move towards equality. They said it had to be the result of a participatory process and it turns out that the document already decided everything there was to be done, or what could be done there. I don't know what time it is. Then I'm not going to mess with it, but there'd be a lot to talk about how to tell the story. Well, of course the history of the government that BIC declared the palace of Meirais I could tell it, but I'm not going to tell it here -- and also of what happened in 2017, Mr. Puy, because you only told a part of the story --. You brought an initiative to the plenary at the end of September 2017 after you voted against an initiative that the BNG presented here, after joining the agreement that already had the Crown Deputy and after vetoing a plenary debate on this issue when you proposed to the Permanent Deputy. You have to tell everything, you have to tell everything! You -- I told you again -- we didn't give them another escape and they ended up on the side of most, but it cost them, uh!, it really cost them! Look, Mr. Fexóo said it wasn't a palace, it was a tower. Now you say it's a lighthouse. Hurry up, hurry up! I think it's a little lighthouse, it's a little lighthouse, it's a little trick, a little artimagina. What you wanted, what you wanted until at least four days ago, was a project "historical anti-memorial," "collective anti-dignity." And it seems to me very well that everything you said here in this rostrum Mr. Puy, and I would think more if it were true and, above all, if it were consistent. Because this isn't just about Meirás. But it's not an island. It's part of a country. It's part of a country's history. And we have to tell the whole story, we have to dismantle the Frankish story all over the country and all over the story, not just in Meirades. And that requires doing a public policy of memory, and not doing what you voted for, which was to dismantle, annihilate, eliminate everything that had been done during those four years -- the Island of Memory, the "Names and Voices" project, all public calls for help -- and you voted here against Galicia having a historic memory law that presented the BNG, voted against a plan of historical memory, a multi-annual plan that proposed the BNG. [[Applause]] So what are we left with? I think they still have a lot to prove. It's not only worth making rhetorical convictions of frankism. We have to be consistent. Look, even Castile and León has a historical memory plan. They're being left alone on this issue. I, of course, encourage them -- and it seems good that they start with Meirás -- to be consistent, to be consistent and to go much further. And, of course, if they want to enhance the figure of Pardo Bazán, we don't want to give them ideas, but there exists in Coruña a house-museum Pardo Bazán, which is there because he wanted the family that was there. Of course, there they have enough to do. First of all, so that the Royal Galaga Academy -- the RAG -- has better conditions for working and developing its activity. We know that you are more interested in the RAE, that Mr. Faixóo must seem very persecuted and very threatened, and that he then welcomes her here as a shelter, that she is, well, I don't know... pursued by separatists and independenceists, by sovereignists, right? He explained it very well in an article published in the press in Inma López Silva, when he said -- for this reason of the lighthouse -- "The Spanishest right is so, he becomes feminist before making the story of the victims of franchise visible." And that was the case, what happens is that you guys got the game wrong and finally found that everyone was against their proposal, and they turned it around, and they keep turning it around. But we have to be consistent and go further. We ask them to go further, because you will have to be a palace, a tower, historical memory, not franchise...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u248	As far as amendments are concerned.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u249	...of anti-franquism, of the democratic struggle and collective dignity of this country, "of the capacity of the Greek people -- as Luís Seoane and Isaac Díaz Pardo said in Bos Aires -- of dreaming greatness for Galicia and of making dreams come true." That's also about the fight of Meirás.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u250	The amendments, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u251	On the amendments, we understand that the Socialist Party should move it to the State Secretary, because he has already started this study process, so they should convince him that this is not the way. Because a study committee and a working group are already in the process of defining these issues proposed by the Socialist Group, where, by the way, a broad institutional representation is involved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u252	Finish it, Mr. Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u253	And with regard to the amendment of the People's Party, it seems to us that it does not add anything new to the proposal here made by the BNG. So we think it's broad enough...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u254	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u255	...as for you to deserve the support of this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u256	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Let's move on to the next initiative. Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Patricia Otero Rodríguez and D. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the approval and establishment by the Greek Government of a protocol of action specific to the cases of positive in Covid-19 among the crews of the ships arriving at the ports of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u257	This motion for a non-law has been tabled with an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u258	To formulate the non-law proposition has the floor to Mrs. Otero Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u259	Thank you, President. Good night now, gentlemen. The fact is that the non-legislative proposal that brings the debate today by the Socialist Parliamentary Group concerns the lack of powers on the part of the Council of Galicia. Because it's true that the People's Parliamentary Group fills its mouth very much and likes to draw very close to that election result, most of which have been given to the Greeks and the Greeks, but I understand that the confidence that the Greeks and the Greeks have deposited in the People's Party to lead the self-government goes on to the line that it exercises its powers, that it governs, that it does not seek only confrontation with the central government, that it does not throw balloons out to avoid executing its competences. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And, of course, that trust placed in the People's Party is much less on the line that some Members are coming -- as Mr Tellado said today -- to do these interventions and to insult this House. I think it's going for another line. The truth is that this leave of functions on the part of the Welsh Executive is quite incongruent with the attitude shown by the president of the Galician Union, by Mr. Núñez Feijóo, in those press rounds in the first phase of the pandemic, in which the only thing he did was criticize the central government and he was insistently asking to get out of the alarm state -- because since May three he had asked to get out of the alarm state --. I wanted to be the first in the class, because I thought he'd drive and manage this pandemic much better. And allow me to question it, because this second wave of the pandemic in Galicia leaves much worse data than the first one. He wanted to get out of that alarm state and get his powers back because, according to him, he had that one command. [[Applause]] So he asked for competences; competences they now have, but competences they don't now exercise. The pandemic of the covid-19 -- as we all know -- affects all sectors. And those infected by the vault-19 arrive at all workplaces. Therefore, our fishing vessels are not alien to this problem and the groars appear also among their crew members. Since the arrival of the Covid-19 to our lives, there have been numerous cases of national ships with Spanish flag that have raided the ports of Greek with contagions by the Covid-19. I believe that neither and none of these present escape the peculiarities of these travelling work centres, which, by the size of the boats and by the dynamics of their own activity, make it difficult in many cases to comply with the measures to alleviate the curfew-19. Throughout this pandemic, several ships came to our crewed docks contaminated by the coward-19. Over the past few weeks they have also continued to arrive and, in particular, to the Navy is shining; the latter, Advent I, which attacked the port of Burela on November 17th. By the way, just a punctuation -- because it seems to be forgotten sometimes -- : in Galicia there are 122 autonomous competition ports. Well -- as I was saying --, in these last few weeks, several ships have arrived at German ports of autonomous competition -- Spanish flag boats -- with cases of cover-19 between their crew and in which the Galician Union, with regard to equal cases, made different decisions. While in the case of the boat docked in the port of Celeiro the crew passed the preceptive quarantine in their homes, in the case of the ship Advent I -- isolated in the port of Burela -- the whole crew passed the quarantine on the ship itself. Different decisions -- as I said -- for similar situations and with ports, by the way, that are less than 20 kilometers in a straight line. In the case of Always Antares -- based on Celeiro -- the next day of confirmation of the contagions, all the crew left the ship. They stayed in their homes or in buildings rented to the quarantine so that it would be as light as possible and, at the same time, to empty the boat and also to disinfect it. In the case of the boat moored and isolated in Burela, his crew had to pass the quarantine on the ship, despite requesting to pass it outside of it. But there are more cases in these last few months, at this stage where competition is already autonomous. Let's not forget that we're talking about ships arriving at our docks and that Sergas is responsible for the control of the contagion of the Spanish flagboats that flow into the Greek ports. But there are more cases: on 30-10-2020 a crew of a fishing vessel tied up in Marín, all contaminated; first they were on the boat and then Health authorized the shipments to their homes. On November 7, 2020 two fences, with base port in Ribeira: crew in quarantine for positive mariners in both ships, and passed it to their homes. So, we see that the Galician Union lacks a clear and specific protocol for the supposed national ships that arrive with contagions to the Greek ports, and being -- as it said before -- Sergas's competence to control the contagions on these ships. We see how these people are abandoned to their good luck by the Galician Union when they reach the ports of competition. And I don't say it, neither do I say it by the Socialist Parliamentary Group; the sailors themselves, who -- for example, those of Advent I -- spoke of despair and fear among those confined on the ship. They asked them to get them out of the boat, where they only had a bathroom for 17 people, and they said that when they asked for a phone call on a Friday for their doctor, they didn't attend them until Monday; they didn't even come to see them there. "Before..." -- I was saying a -- "I called and they gave me a drug that didn't even get me on the health card, and my wife had to pay for it. Above all, we want them to get us out of here and take us to a place with minimum conditions. We can't be here four in a cabin or two in a cabin. We ask them to take us to another place." And they also asked for normal medical attention. That's what Advent I crew members said. Later on in this news, the director of Lugo's health area said that he confined them on board was a decision taken with the intention of preventing him from expanding to cover-19 in his homes or other places where they were staying. Besides, he came to say that the decision to stay on the boat had been joint, the shipowner and the sailors themselves. And here I want to stop. In view of the news I've just taught, let me question whether the decision was taken between the shipowner and the sailors, because here we have the statements of the sailors themselves. And secondly, it seems incredible to us that they have the responsibility to decide where the quarantine should go both to the shipowners and to the sailors. Unbelievable! [[Applause]] Why do we not understand, then, why is the Council of Galicia not to exercise its powers, to transfer the balloon to the shipowners themselves and the sailors themselves to decide where they must pass the quarantine? Neither I nor my group are able to decide which is the best option to pass the quarantine. It must be a team of technicians who decide what the best situation is. But, of course, there must be a specific protocol of action for those alleged, and it is the responsibility of the Council of Galicia to establish this protocol; in particular the Council of the Sea, in collaboration with the Health Council. You can't, ladies and gentlemen, abandon the workers who come to our ports in their luck. And if in the end the best option -- adopted by technicians and specialists -- is that the quarantine should go out of the boats, the Galician Union must also facilitate this option, and it must also facilitate these locations, because there are other autonomous communities that have done so. In Cantabria, for example, in the case of sailors of a Greek ship, they made available to these sailors a hostel of autonomous competition. You -- or even the other day, the general technical secretary of the Council of the Sea -- spoke of the fact that the Council of the Sea was proactive from the very first moment. Well, something's going wrong. Since March, we've known that these situations can happen. They've got competition since Galician Union and they're not doing anything in this direction. You can do it, because so they made recommendations in plans also in the farthest...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u260	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u261	The other one said it to the technical secretary herself -- and finished, president --. So they have competition; exercise it, please. And, of course, don't put that responsibility on the shipowners' heads...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u262	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u263	...and also the sailors. So what we ask for is that clear performance protocol...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u264	Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u265	...because, unfortunately, they're gonna keep coming contaminated sailors on our backs...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u266	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u267	...and, of course, they must be given a decent way out.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u268	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u269	For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u270	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Balseiro Orol has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u271	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I want my first words on this initiative to be to convey -- on my own behalf and also on behalf of the People's Group -- a message of deep and heartfelt appreciation to the sea councillor Rosa Quintana, and to all the men and women professionals in the fishing world, the seafood industry and other professions, who over the past few months have lived with this cursed virus and moved them a message full of strength and hope. I'm waiting for your prompt recovery. [[Applause]] Having said that -- and to put us in the background -- this initiative that brings the Socialist Group to this plenary must have been the subject of debate and vote at the last meeting of the Committee on Fisheries and Maritimes of this House, but at the last moment the Socialist Party decided to withdraw. So, believe me that we thought it was after an attack of bad conscience, because in that same commission we heard an answer in which the general technical secretary of the Sea Council explained -- with all the details and with every foundation -- that if there was an absent administration in the attention and care of men and women of the sea during the pandemic, that was the Central Government, who was missing. This situation contrasts with that done by the Union, which has always fulfilled. That's how they recognize it from the sector itself. The action of the Union in the protection of our seafaring people began in minute one; before, during and after that fateful Saturday, March 14, in which the state of alarm was declared. The summary is very simple: the Union was at the height, the Union was at the side of the professionals of the sea, and the central government, no. And here today, frankly, I think the person who defended this initiative, Mrs. Otero, has been deceived. They made him defend this knowledgeable initiative that Galicia has been waiting for eight months for the protocol they claim, eight months!, for the protocol of the State to establish how to deal with cases of potential coronary artery disease aboard the ships. Look -- note, if you like, Mrs. Otero --, Galicia has formulated and transferred to the Ministry of Health on multiple occasions -- and at least twice in writing, on April 27 and May 5 this year -- the need for this collaboration protocol. On every occasion cited, on every occasion, do you know what the answer was? It was silence by answer. And you come here today to ask what you yourselves are denying Galicia from the administrations in which you rule. Fortunately the Galician Union was not so irresponsible. And even before there was a positive case of a ship's crewman, the Welsh administration took letters in the matter. On March 15th, a day after the entry into force of the alarm state, the board issued safety and hygiene recommendations to prevent infections on board. A useful and valued document by the sector itself that served to have some lines to follow -- especially as long as there were no others issued by the competent administration in the provision and health care on board ships, which, I tell you, is the Government of Spain, the Government of Spain! --. On the promenades too, Junta issued performance guidelines to maintain the activity with guarantees and to contribute to the supply of products from the sea. Galicia made available to the sector more than 50,000 masks and even donated material to the ships of the ISM, which belong to the Government of Spain. The Board proceeded to distribute these masks before the absence of the State in the various ports of Galicia for their use by the professionals of fishing, seafood, the lengths and the coastal sector. And, on the other hand, and regarding the testing of ship crews, Junta asked on several occasions, without a satisfactory answer by whoever had to give it, for the possibility of carrying out these preventive tests before boarding. The ISM, the Social Institute of the Marines, which belongs to the State, has full powers regarding medical recognition prior to boarding. And if not, if sailors don't have the medical recognition done -- that doctors at the ISM do -- they can't board because Captain Maritime doesn't board them. But they did nothing about it to you, nothing did to the central government. Ladies and gentlemen, the ISM had over 40 people in its centres in Galicia, of which 22 are doctors. And we don't know what they did during the first pandemic crisis. In this parliamentary group we are told that they are all professionals and have dedication, and we know of their frustration. But something has failed, and not precisely between that staff. It was the political leadership of a socialist government that abandoned the sailors to their fate. In contrast, today we can say calmly and with a very calm conscience that, despite the absence of state medical services, there is not a single case in Galicia that has not been attended by Sergas. In this area -- it's true -- there are many involved administrations that need to act coordinatedly. That's why it's important to have that protocol that we've been waiting for eight months in Galicia. But in the Ministry and in Moncloa they decided to wash their hands. They did not want to establish a protocol on how to act during the ship's stay in the sea, taking into account the competences of the Social Institute of the Marines or External Health, which is also of the Central Government, which has the assistance of sea workers, or the ownership of state services, such as the Radio-Medical Centre, or the health vessels -- all of them of State competence and the Government of Spain --. They also did not want to explain how to act during the transfer to the land of crew members by bringing in the appropriate instructions for those cases in which they had close contact on board or on land. From April to June he was at the disposal of the State to facilitate the organization and detail of these matters. The central government never wanted to do his homework. But, ladies and gentlemen, the Union has always fulfilled and has prepared its own protocols. Sergas came by applying the standardized protocol for any person suffering from covid-19 to all these cases, including the aspects of quarantine for those close contacts or for those affected themselves. In Galicia we have always had space -- and the Counsellor has already told her not many days ago in this Parliament -- we always have space so that they can perform the quarantine to those people who, lacking home in our autonomous community -- the case of what you talked about here is a different case, because there were people outside our autonomous community, and I know well that case -- they needed and wanted to get out of the boat. They've always had spaces. And in the meantime, we've been waiting for the Central Government for eight months. It is necessary, Your Honor, that everyone assumes its consequences. It is necessary, Mrs Otero, for the Central Government to take that coordination. Galicia and the sea councillor have fulfilled. No one in the sector can doubt it. There is not a case that has not been attended by Sergas, while other administrations have been missing and missing, as is the case with the Central Government. You have the courage to go up to this rostrum, to claim the State to purchase. You have the courage to stand by the professionals of the sea and not by the government of Sanchez. The Socialist Party of Galicia is asking for this protocol nine months after Junta has already demanded it from the Ministry of Health and denied it, believe me that it is a disgraceful supine and that it is a case of political hypocrisy without a comparison. He also assumed a lack of respect for the crews of the ships that had been abandoned during this time by the government of Pedro Sanchez. You really believe me, because you know that something about this must know, I know cases of what you've been talking about -- besides, I have to tell you that I've suffered one of those very close cases in my family, I've suffered one of those cases -- that all we can say in Galicia is that the Government of Spain is the one with the competences, the Social Institute of the Navy is the one with the skills of boarding, it's the one with the medical recognitions. And we have to go with that recognition...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u272	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u273	...the captain's physician so you can get the boat aboard and get the boat out to sea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u274	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u275	Without that medical recognition, you can't go out; with which, everyone assumes the competences. You have the courage to ask whoever's been waiting for eight months. To meet your skills...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u276	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u277	...and that I send that protocol. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u278	Thank you very much, Mr. Balsairo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pérez Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u279	Mr. President, good night. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, here's the sad picture we have in this country. On the one hand, the Central Government, the representatives of the Socialist Party claiming competence to the Union. [[Applause]] Self-government? But if you've always been against it! They've always been against it! On the other hand, the People's Party -- which, in fact, has never exercised or will never want to exercise not only the powers that come to it from the state, but the powers it has to exercise itself -- calling on the State a hideous protocol for sailors. But this is the case of the sailors and the covered protocol. We first saw or saw the peace of Meiras, before we saw or two European funds, and so on, from Czech to Mecca and Mecca to Czech. With a difference, with a huge difference: we used to talk about a palace, that is, of good material, we used to talk about European funds, money, and here we speak, ladies and gentlemen, of people, of people who are abandoned to their luck! [[Applause]] They're abandoned to their fate because neither Jan nor Pericán know what to do with them. [[Applause]] They simply stay on board the confined ship, in a very small space, sharing in many cases a single bath all the sailors and the rest of the common spaces, including the cabins themselves; and in other cases they find that they are not confined to the boat, that they go to their homes or if they make it easier for them to rent from some place. It's absolutely indecent, it's absolutely indecent! We're looking for a protocol that neither the state nor the Union are able to put in place precisely to meet those who need it most. But, of course, what is already absolutely amazing, but fascinating! -- and not to say any other word I could use -- are, gentlemen of the People's Party and ladies of the People's Party, the statements by the manager of the Lugo health area at the time, who says textually -- I read -- that in ship cases "decides the shipowner or the family situation of the sailors, whether they have a place or not, but there is no indication for him to be on the boat. It may be "... -- I keep reading textually, it may seem incredible, but it's the words of the health care manager in Lugo --, "it may be on a floor or at home, whenever the isolation is complete." Indecent, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, indecent, truly, absolutely indecent! [[Applause]] It's not true...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u280	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u281	It's not true, as this gentleman says... [[Murmurs.]] Mr. President, I need to speak, whatever you want to hear, what you hear; and what you don't, who you don't listen but, in any case, who you let speak to in the use of the word, don't you? [[Applause]] Well, it's not true what this manager of Lugo's health area says that protocol -- after saying this I just read -- is the same thing as for any other company. It's absolutely false. Or else in Frinsa, in Ribeira, Jealsa, in Boiro, the workers themselves, thousands of workers, of the board of Galicia are confined to the boat, in the administrative building of San Caetano or go to the house if they want, or, if not, to a floor or wherever they want? It's absolutely false! What happens is that neither one nor the other assumes that ships with men, with sailors, with crews are companies that also need, in fact, guidelines in this case, the health of an administration. And, as it does not!, the Gounta de Galicia, indeed, with 122 ports of the 127 existing in the country, says that there says the state what to do, that it does not go with them, that the powers are not theirs. And, of course, the Mrs. General Technical Secretary of the Council, who came to the Committee on Fisheries, said -- however, with all this that I'm narrating -- that they've been dealing with this problem since minute one. They didn't even take care of the minute one in the minute one hundred one, in no minute! It's more, nine months later -- nine months, right?, it's very symbolic -- you still follow -- and you too -- without giving birth to a protocol that regulates this situation, and save yourself who can! [[Mr Pérez Fernández points to the other part of the Chamber.]] Which seems absolutely incredible to us. We do not understand that, in the face of a proposal from the Socialist Party -- in this case -- why you are told, whether you ask the Board for a protocol, or whether you are asked to "make a protocol", the parliamentary group that supports the Group of the People's Party, responds to that non-legislative proposal, to that demand, with an amendment that says that the Board continue to demand the protocol from the State. So, how long will we be like this? How long will we be like this? Until when will the sailors be like this, who are people who belong to companies and yet are treated absolutely separately? We do not understand this, and we make a proposal in voice because it was absolutely impossible for us to make it in writing. We'd like it if there weren't two competent administrations in this matter, would we? We'd like that already! The ideal would be that the Galician Union had all the competences. But right now there are two administrations and we are talking about people and at least we have reached agreements in this Parliament. The normal thing would be if an agreement was made. I don't care what the PSOE proposes, speaking of whether the state is going to cooperate with the Union, or whether it is proposed by the People's Party to be the other way around. But the normal thing is, if the Spanish State has a network -- actually it has it -- like the ISM, where medical recognition is made, it has maritime captainies, where they are given shipping authorizations, because, if not, we can't, etc., etc.; and if the Union has competences in the Greek ports... let's leave external health behind, because until then we get there. We all know that External Health intervenes in the cases of ships, ships, which have no Spanish flag. So let's put aside that, which is quite well regulated. Let's not touch him anymore, in case. But the rest, the rest, the normal thing is, if they were two serious administrations, they would say, "Hey! -- the Union or the State, I don't care -- we're going to sit here because there's thousands of people sailing down there, many nautical miles from their home, and they need, if you say so, precisely the lifeboat of their own administrations. Come here, let's sit down and don't leave until we have a performance protocol. Because just as protocols have been made for so many things... I am not going to set an example of teaching, because, indeed, sailors and ships could end up worse than they are with so much protocol. But, in any case, protocols were made here absolutely for everything. [[Applause]] Well, I say it shouldn't be too complicated to feel administration A and administration B and come to an agreement just to meet those people. And I'm going to finish, Mr President, because I wanted to point out that there is now a protocol, a coordination between the two administrations precisely for the shipping of mariners, a protocol, a collaboration agreement, a coordination -- not only did the general technical secretary say it the other day in the Council of the Sea but I actually did with that documentation --. There is already an agreement between the ISM and Sergas, to be exact, for boarding cases. If there is an agreement for boarding cases, it must be twisted so as not to sign another coordination and collaboration agreement for landing cases and, indeed, to say what they have to be and where to go and how to attend them and who must take care of them?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u282	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u283	It would be most logical. BNG understands that competences are distributed here.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u284	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u285	I insist, we'd like them to be just from the board, but since they're not, the normal thing, I insist, is that, for the sake of all those people who've been waiting for nine months...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u286	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u287	...for the administrations to agree, they come to an agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u288	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pérez. [[One person from the House services comes to disinfect the stage.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Otero Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u289	Thank you, President. Man, Mr. Balsairo!, say "you've set it up" on this initiative. You know how things are done in my party. In my party, things are done with consensus, with dialogue, and the whole parliamentary group decides what we bring or what we don't bring. You can talk about how you do things on a bench and how you do something else, and there's a lot of difference. [[Applause]] Because, of course, he also questioned... the other day they were going to take an initiative in the Fisheries Committee and withdraw it. "We are legitimized to withdraw or not, and decide when and how we bring initiatives." And one thing: less bad than we brought the initiative, because, after the words of the other day of the technical secretary general, the truth is that we are very, very, very worried, because we've been seeing nothing if we've been doing beyond those ads and that propaganda that you're very used to. And by the way, Mr. Balsairo talked about that since the Council of the Sea he'd been working even before the fateful March 14th -- which was when the alarm status was decreed --. And the technical secretary herself the other day -- they have a communication problem between the Parliamentary Group and the Government -- textually said that the Council of the Sea has worked since minute one. He said, since March 14th, Saturday. So they have a serious communication problem. And if you've been doing so many things, if the Council of the Sea has been doing so many things in the absence of the State -- because so you said: "In the absence of the State, recommendations have been made, guidelines have been said..." -- why don't they do so in this case in the absence of the State as you say? Do you or do you not have the competence to make this protocol with Spanish flag ships arriving at autonomous ports? Of course they have that competition! You were now talking about external health and foreign flag boats. [[Applause]] No, I stressed "Spanish flagboats." By the way, thanks for the lesson on the competences of the ISM. The truth is, at the mouth of a political leader, to question the work that some public officials have done throughout the pandemic -- because he says he doesn't know what the ISM doctors were doing in the first phase of the pandemic -- I don't think it's the right thing to do. And, of course, I repeat again that we are talking about Spanish flag vessels that come contaminated with autonomous competition ports. And then Sergas has the powers of control. Therefore, taking advantage of a sentence of his, everyone who assumes his powers; therefore, the Council of Galicia which assumes its powers. [[Applause]] You also said, "I have the courage to come here and support the sector." I tell you to have the courage to support this initiative and to vote against the orders they give you in your party, because so too would it be to support these sailors, who often do not know whether they have to pass the quarantine on ships or whether they have to pass the quarantine out. Give them security, give them the confidence to know what to do, and don't pass the ball on the shipowners' roof and the sailors' to decide where they have to go through the quarantine. We're not talking about the requirements that ships must meet to get out to sea, we're talking precisely about the arrival of ships on our docks, but so that those workers who get infected can pass their quarantine to a place where they're kept in decent conditions. So, what we're asking is ultimately a security for these people, who in equal cases make equal decisions, that there's a clear protocol so that it's not -- I repeat -- the shipowner or sailors who have to decide. Because I agree with Mrs. Pérez -- I also said it in my first intervention -- the statements by the health care officer of Lugo, Ramón Ares, are incredible, it's incredible to put the decision they have to make in the head of the shipowners or sailors. So, it's more necessary than ever this specific action protocol for these cases, because unfortunately -- although all of us in this House would like it not to be --, unfortunately more workers are going to be infected to our ports. The other day, the technical secretary-general said that decisions had to be made; therefore, they made decisions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u290	With regard to the amendment, Mrs. Otero?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u291	Let the Greek Government make decisions and therefore articulate that clear protocol of action. And no, we're not going to support the amendment that the People's Party tabled. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-22-DSPG018.u292	Thank you very much. After this non-legislative proposal, we suspended the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning. Thank you very much.
