ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u1	Good morning. Let's restart the session. Justification and non-appropriation and delegation of vote to Mrs Sandra Vázquez Domínguez by motherhood, who, in the light of Rule 84.3 and Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, exercises her right to vote for this meeting in Mr Pedro Puy Fraga. The representatives of the parliamentary groups are now speaking. And this will be done in accordance with the agreement agreed by the Bureau and Council of Spokesman on 27 August 2020. For that, they can use the word for a 35-minute period. The candidate may challenge the parliamentary groups individually or globally in accordance with Article 136(4) of the Regulation. After the debate, the vote will take place. I'll communicate in due course when that time is, and I'll make the corresponding warnings. We will therefore now proceed to the first intervention, which corresponds to the Socialist Parliamentary Group for a period of 35 minutes. Mr. Gonzalo Caballero Míguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, who follow this debate through the media, also through the Galician Television, Mr candidate for the Presidency of the Galician Union, I would like to begin this intervention with a fraternal and caring greeting to so many Greeks and Greeks and families who have suffered this health crisis and have suffered the loss of the families of the 644 Greeks who have died through the coward, those 3,847 Greeks and Greeks who are today infected and especially those 14 who are entering intensive care units. To all of them a greeting, a grip, a grip. I want to tell all the Greeks that the P.S.D.G. is and will be aware of the circumstances in the face of such a major crisis. Secondly, I want to point out today also a satisfaction and a serene joy because, in the face of the demand presented by the General Administration of the State, justice has recovered the peace of Meirás to the public; an advance with historical memory, with democratic memory; an advance with the dignity of the reprisals of frankism and also a guarantee to continue building a better democracy. [[Applause]] I would like to acknowledge the work done by all the administrations, and in particular by the State Secretariat of Democratic Memory, which presented the demand with the Government of Spain, to which the various administrations of an autonomous, provincial and local nature were incorporated. On July 12th, the Greeks and the Greeks came to the polls. They were the elections of the coward, unlike any other who had been throughout the democratic stage. Elections in which the level of participation has fallen to 48% of the Greeks and Greeks who have the right to vote, 58% of the Greeks entitled to vote in the territory of our community. They were different elections and elections in which 253,000 Welsh and Welsh voted lists of the Socialist Party of Galicia. We want to tell them that we are going to comply with their message, that we know what they want from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and that we are going to act with responsibility. And to all the Greeks and Greeks, we say that the Socialist Parliamentary Group, that the socialists, we are going to meet the circumstances, putting the best of ourselves into such a complex legislation. The People's Party has won the election and we have transferred the congratulations to that political force and also to its candidate, with 627,000 votes, 50,000 votes less than four years ago; a most legitimate majority to rule, a majority that gives the People's Party strength to open a legislation for four years and a parliament in which there are three political forces: the conservative force, the nationalist force -- we have also transferred the congratulations to it for the result achieved -- and the force of the Socialists of Galicia. Most people have to manage it properly, because most people don't guarantee success in public policies, and that's why we're all going to have to be on time. Because there are many Greeks who voted, but there are also many Greeks who haven't been voting in such complex circumstances. And that's why we all have to do our best to build that Galicia better. We are the alternative to the policies of the People's Party. The 253,000 Galicians who voted for us made it because they ask us something different from what you've applied over the past eleven years. We are going to be consistent with ideas, values and socialist proposals, and we are going to be because we defend the public for the fundamental to those who defend the private for everything, because we defend the struggle for equality as a benchmark and because we believe that policies are formulas to reform and change and not just to preserve from inaction. We will be and we are an alternative because we believe that the outcome of this crisis must be made in a different way than the crisis in 2008 and 2009. The policies of orthodoxy and austerity are already overcome, and this has to be a way out of the crisis with different public policies. [[Applause]] The crisis we are experiencing is the crisis of cowardice. This complex situation, of such magnitude, demands the best public policies, and that is why it has to be the legislated protection of people in the face of the economic, social and health crisis. The Galician Parliament and the Galician Self-Government must defend citizenship against this complexity, building a protective belt so that no one will stay behind and also looking for opportunities for the Greeks and for the Greeks. [[Applause]] We're dealing with cutting policies, we're dealing with public dismantling policies, we're dealing with policies that don't believe in the welfare state and public support for better recovery. Our project is alternative, because Galicia has been the worst, it has been less than eleven years of People's Party government. The Royal Galicia does not live in the happy Arcadia that transfers the People's Party to us. In eleven years of government Galicia lost population, lost employment, there are 70,000 less busy than before the coward crisis. The cowardly crisis has left the productive tissue weaker, more complex, in the primary sector, in the industrial sector, because, in addition, in the face of this crisis, we see as a lack of sufficient response by the German Government and as a lack of long and medium-term project for Galicia. Four years ago, Mr. candidate, you made commitments, and you failed many of your investment speech commitments. I promised a new Galician employment law and no one knows about that law. I promised that we would end the legislation with a unemployment rate below two digits and at the beginning of this year, in the first quarter of 2020, the unemployment rate was 12%. He promised rural legislation and didn't work in the rural areas of Galicia. He promised many infrastructures that are in his speech and did not fulfill it, for example, the extension of the Highway of the Coast of Death. He promised that we would make it to 2020 with the totally healthy Welsh streams and promise him again now in this investment speech. He promised multiple health investments in hospitals, from Gran Montecelo to so many investments in other cities, and he promises them again now. He has promised a programme to support older people who live alone and bring it back to this Parliament today. And he promised seven public residences, one in each of the big cities of Greece, and he didn't fulfill it. That's why we need a new approach and that's why we need a new challenge. [[Applause]] You asked yesterday, Mr. candidate, for government ministries to serve in Spain, but what the Greeks and the Greeks are asking themselves today is why it serves an Economic Counsellor who has not achieved the necessary measures to support our country's productive fabric, they ask themselves to serve a Social Policy Counsellor who exempts their responsibilities in so many areas of politics and asks whether it serves an Education Counsellor who has not taken measures to start the school course. And, therefore, they also wonder why a Government of the Galician Union should serve to discharge its responsibilities and want others to do their duty to it. And that's why we have to change that form of action. We cannot continue to face a crisis of such gravity, of such complexity, that we must govern and take action in complex circumstances. Of course, from an alternative position, we want to transfer to the People's Party that will have the tendon hand of the PSdeG-PSOE. Our vows are not necessary before an absolute majority, but we are going to put the best of ourselves to dialogue, to contribute, to seek agreements, to be able to accompany the political climate of the country and to make the best policies where the People's Party lacks content or lacks projects. That's why we assume that in this legislation on the protection of people we all have to be up to this time. And for that we want to address four major forward axes, which must lead the majority of the People's Party, but what you can count on is the vocation of dialogue and construction from the Socialist Party of Galicia. First of all, to make a ferocious defense of the social, of the priority of the social, in a legislation in which we have to give protection to the citizenship so that no one is left behind; a defense and strengthening of the public health system, the priority of social policies, a new model of residence and care for the elderly, to wager for a guaranteed education, for equality policies, for a defense of the feminist cause -- if you can also point to feminism in investment -- for policies that have to give opportunities to new people. [[Applause]] The priority of social policy will be the red line of the Socialist Party of Galicia. There can be no more setbacks, more cuts and more abandonments, a policy of citizenship protection must be made, and we want to work from the opposition by supporting the Government of the Union in all those measures that allow that advance. Secondly, we also want to talk about the country's economic reactivation. A Resolve plan for economic reconstruction, for the impulse of the productive sectors, for the creation of employment by the coward, is needed from sustainability and from the challenges of the ecological transition and digitization, also to bet on the rural environment and territorial vertebration; a second major line of agreement to work on the economic reconstruction of our country. Thirdly, we create a line of agreement that is fundamental to working on the regeneration and quality of institutions. And fourthly, the greatest agreement that can achieve this legislation on the protection of persons, the greatest agreement that we have to have the parliamentary groups represented in this Chamber is that Galicia has a status and has a self-government, and, in the face of Galicia's problems, we need a government of the Galician Union that exercises its powers, those of the Statute of Self-Government, in social policies, in industry, in economics, in health and in education. That's the biggest responsibility for the big deal there has to be in the legislation. The rule of protection of persons has the challenge of reaching an agreement for the Government of the United States to exercise and fulfil its responsibility. They apply the Statute of Self-Government as the greatest guarantee for this legislation. [[Applause]] During these eleven years of the People's Party's government, there has been evidence of a kind of health policy that is different from what the Socialist Party defends for our country. The cowardly crisis has shown that the priority of the public health system is fundamental, and it is up to us, even more so now. The eleven-year balance of cuts, the precariousness of employment and the dismantling of so many services of the People's Party's policies for us is negative, and for the Greeks and Greeks who vote for the Socialist Party, the balance of the people's health management is also negative. You are part of an analysis that is unreal, of a number of investments that are not met, because the budgets of the Galician Union, in real terms, this year, are inferior to those that were when you arrived at the Galician Union if you update the matches according to the IPC, something that any student of 1st Economy or any family knows. He bought 2,000 million euros in health care in 11 years in real terms, because there are 500 beds less in public hospitals than when you arrived in front of the Galician Union, because he cut in budgets, staff and primary care, because he eliminated services in many comarcal hospitals and because employment is more precarious. There's a falsity of reality when you want to sell that investment, that bet you haven't given. We believe that there must be a clear bet, and of course we believe that this crisis has highlighted the need for an amendment to the entire health policy of the People's Party. So we're going to put forward proposals, we're going to come up with ideas, we're going to work with what we have: a project for Galicia. Among other things, because there are new funds. At the first part of the bottom of the vault, Galicia receives €268 million to spend on health care, and the network of professionals and public health resources needs to be strengthened, a genuine plan to improve primary care is to be implemented -- which has been the great damage throughout its policy -- and a new primary care centre must be provided and commitments made to hospitals must be met. In addition, it is necessary to adapt the user ratios per physician to ensure that there is a lower load of patients per physician in primary care. And, of course, we have to set up an extraordinary human resource stabilization program, because there is room to do so, and you don't even meet the minimum that can be established, which is to generate the maximum of stable squares that allow for effective legislation. It is necessary to work on that line to convene 5,000 stable squares for health professionals in this legislation, and we must work with the other autonomous communities and with the Ministry of Health and with the Government of Spain to reach an agreement that will enable us to move towards the abolition of the replacement rate for the health system. We must summon these squares which have been covered by potential people in a continuous manner for so many years. There are many nurses and nurses who accumulate daily, weekly contracts and who are claiming greater commitment to this government and this autonomous chamber. You have to lower the eventuality below 8%, and you have to develop a Welsh mental health plan, which you're again working on now, right now, after you haven't fulfilled it in all the years they've had of government. It is important, Mr candidate, to develop a catalogue of basic hospital services that ensure the permanent presence, in the comarcas hospitals, of the services of greater use and the needs of the population with stable staff in the centre itself, and it must be reinforced also in the face of the risks involved in this crisis of cowardice. We have to bet on the public, so that at the end of this legislation we can get the entire population of Greece to have as a reference hospital a public management centre and we have to raise investment in health research. We must also move towards a challenge which is complex, but where there are difficulties and which we must also collectively assume - I certainly agree with you in that intention - that we must progressively incorporate full oral care into Sergas for people with more difficulties. So we want to work on the cure. In his speech, candidate Mr. Feijóo, we agreed when yesterday he suggested that a reinforcement of the public health department should be done, or when he announced that a massive test line would be opened from saliva samples. Of course, we give all health professionals and also to those responsible all the congratulations for this going ahead, but the credibility of the People's Party is lacking in everything they could do in eleven years and they haven't done: their commitment to primary care, their commitment to mental health and their commitment to staff. That's a challenge; there are old challenges that have not met and that we hope they will now meet in the next four years. You promised yesterday, Mr. Feijóo, a new Greek health service, an integral renewal of Sergas. But what's the model? What's the project? What's going to change the organization, the operation of that system? Because nothing made it clear. He talked about improving health professionals' conditions, but they didn't come true. And he also spoke of sending an organic health law these days to the Government of Spain; an organic law from which the rest of the parliamentary groups have no knowledge. I want to ask you whether you believe that each of the seventeen autonomous communities should refer their draft organic public health law to address the difficulties in the country, because you and the People's Party also have Members in the Government of Spain, and there is a commission, the Commission for Economic and Social Reconstruction, with a health area in which you, your deputies and your leader, Mr. Casado, can also carry it forward - firstly, agreed at least with the communities you govern - [[Applause]] The policies that you have applied, Mr Feijóo, in health matters, are not ours, and we are open to working together to defend public health and to do so with the Council of Health and the Presidency of the Government of Galicia in the face of the cuts and setbacks that have occurred in the past. We have to bet on public health, but bet on public health isn't putting up a poster in Verín that says, "public hospital." The Greeks and the Greeks who listen to us know about the waiting lists, about the problems of appointments in primary care -- especially in these summer weeks -- and also about the weaknesses of a telephone system that separates the type of treatments. The Galicians who listen to us also want to know which are the 6,000 trackers you know and which no one else knows. The Greeks who listen to us want seriousness and commitment to the defense of health, and there we will be with the Government of Galician Union. Secondly, within the social sphere, I would also like to highlight the importance of collective residences and social policies. The cowardly crisis has revealed the risks to majors and residences, and the truth is what is happening these days in the Incio residence, where there have already been seven deaths, which shows once again that the situation that is living is terrible, which is very complex. We must face a debate in depth on the issue of residences and take all necessary measures so that what has happened cannot be repeated. Almost half of the deceased in Galicia were higher in residences. Galicia needs a new residence model and a new adult care model, as you yourself recognized during the election campaign. The protocols failed, the inspection failed and we did not comply with the number of public initiative squares in Galicia in senior residences, where, according to the World Health Organization's barriers, 14,000 homes fail. We must comply with this legislation by moving forward. The Board of Auditors, in its 2016 report, pointed out that the forecast of inspections went down immensely in those years, that the system of inspections and sanctions was addicted and that it did not comply with the inspections of residences. The director of the DomusVi residence, in Santiago, made public a letter of enormous gravity before the first wave of the pandemic, pointing out that he had to be given priority over the hospital for the sick and not for those patients who were more serious; that is, the most serious had to be in residence in order of priorities. The public complaints of the workers and the workers of the residences and the family statements require an answer. I would like to ask you, candidate, Mr Feijóo, to commit itself to this Parliamentary House today to support a research commission to study what happened in residences, to learn from mistakes and, on the basis of those conclusions, to build a better model of residences in Galicia. We owe it to the victims, we owe it to the families, we owe it to Galicia, for dignity. [[Applause]] Mr. Feijóo, yesterday you announced a new residence and health protocol, and you also announced a new regulation that regulates the conditions for opening up and operating senior residences. Were the protocols and regulations that existed wrong? How will you develop that new regulation to regulate them? We want to contribute because we know it's a complex issue, because we all know that we're worried about what happens in residences and with our seniors, but we also want to have the information of that new regulation that you've announced and that happened less in your investment speech, but that you have a huge political silence for what happened in residences, and that we have to learn to apply it in the future. This new model is necessary and it is necessary to audit and review compliance with existing regulations and protocols in residences. You have to bet on the public, and you have to make integrated residences, you have to see when they apply and why you don't look for those mechanisms in residences like the Incio ones, too, to give the best assurances. We are all parliamentary groups very concerned about what happened in residences, what happens and what can happen. Of course, all the criticisms that we make in management during this time we do them with the constructive character that we must have, knowing that every time there is a problem in each of the members of the Government and the People's Group -- they're also in the staff -- they're concerned, but we have to give the politician the best response, in the powers of the Government of the Union, and also with the responsibility of the opposition. Social policies are fundamental, because, according to different estimates and we will cut down, the number of Greeks who lived in poverty before the cowardly crisis may be between 540,000 or 622,000, or even something else. Now, with data from reports like Oxfam, it's announced that there are 44,000 more Greeks in poverty. We must strengthen the social contract, the protective belt to the welfare state. There is progress in the state, and we must also take responsibility. We have to defend, without a doubt, advances, such as the minimum vital income, but also assume the competences and responsibilities of the Board when there is a delay and a delay to recognize cases of dependence, or also to process risk. There are many problems, because the municipalities have to get there, where the Government of Galicia does not meet, and the priority of social is fundamental for anyone to stay behind. We must also develop a new housing policy - and then, if I have time, I will make a bigger reference - and also a youth policy based on three major axes: housing, employment and training. The Greeks and the Greeks are worried. In the media a neighbor says so. He's between two fronts: one for his grandfather, Imprisoned in Aldan's residence, and so he's starring protests on the street to claim better hieriac assistance, and another for his 11-year-old daughter, who has suffered a three-year-old stroke that has caused him hemiparesia, a paralysis of a whole side of his body and which depicts his muscle. He says this second battle is also playing with these little ones, and he doesn't understand that physiotherapy clinics can work on a private level and that they can't have social security, as before -- although it was scarce -- two sessions a week for 20 minutes. The families went to hospitals, but now they're not told anything or know anything about the reopening of physiotherapy. That's how I pick up a media today, and I move it here, because it's people's voice, people's difficulties, beyond the general discourse we can make of worry. That is also a matter of concern to you at the beginning of the school course, which is complex, but undoubtedly there was a radical suspension from the management of the Education Council. Ten major areas of action are needed. [[Applause]] It is necessary to be bet by more teachers to lower student fees by classroom classes by classroom, and while other communities have sought out recruitment formulas for special teaching staff staff to start the course, Galicia has stayed in line at the time of the course; because it was not studied either the possibility of using additional spaces to de-work classes; because there was no student's digitization plan to be prepared for all children and all children in Galicia if there is a problem of paralization of activity in their school centre if there is a problem of paralylization of work in school if there is a problem of health professionals and they are landing in such a complex situation; because it is necessary for everyone to have a computer computer, a device and data to be able to follow the school course in any situation; because it is necessary to provide prevention mechanisms for the prevention of masks, temperature control mechanisms for all children and all children in Galician children in Galicia, because there is a health care need to be strengthened and because teachers are not health care provided by health care and teachers and because teachers are not safe, because teachers are needed, because teachers are needed to be able to be able to provide the lines of the specific help, and to provide the practical, but they are the practical tools and to provide, to be they provide the practical needs and to be as they provide, to be as they provide as they provide, to ensure that they provide, to be as they provide the practical, to be as they provide the practical, to be as they provide the practical, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to be as they provide, to ensure, to ensure, to be able, to ensure, to ensure, to be as they provide the practical, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure that the practical, and to ensure that the practical, to ensure that the practical, to ensure that the practical, to ensure that the practical, and to ensure that the practical, and to ensure, and to ensure that [[Applause]] In the funds of the Government of the Galician Union, it has just had EUR 93 million in order to be able to make more policies in the field of its competence. You'll have to see how many teachers will be hired, where they'll invest, and what's the virtual teaching plan. We have to. I also have to point out that it's important to advance in university politics, looking for no one to get access. There is a measure which we are asking for in this Parliament and which can be done without a great budgetary cost, which is to apply that the first registrations in the Greek university system are free for all and all students in Galicia. It can be done, it involves little cost and it can be addressed. And, of course, we would like to ask you, Mr. candidate, Mr. Feijóo, to make a clear commitment to the Greek university system and to the public university, that your government will not take any measure at risk, which threatens, the public university of all the Greeks and all the Greeks. With the public university system, we don't play and we have to work with the three principals to reach any agreement that will modify the titration map or, of course, the creation of any system. [[Applause]] We would also like to ask you, Mr Feijóo, to deepen your policies of equality, of course, in the fight against male violence and in the defence of women's rights, because that is a fundamental challenge. In all crises, women get worse off and more damaged in a situation. And we also want to tell you to try, in the configuration of your government, to meet a historical demand of the German feminist movement. You believe in an equal council to represent the power of women, to give impetus to the feminist commitment, and also to have a gesture that equates that situation. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] We want to expand the networks of information centres for the woman, which must be taken to all regions. It is necessary to develop shelters for all women who are victims of violence or who have been victims of violence. We have to sink into it. And, of course, in the matter of equality, we will lend all the collaboration and all the willingness to improve, because it is a challenge we all have to be at all. Mr candidate, if we have a fundamental concern in the field of social policies, I mean that in the face of an unprecedented crisis, with such a widespread collapse of economic activity, we are deeply concerned about your economic discourse. The workers who listen to that speech are more alert, the self-employed, who are full of difficulties, more worried, the unemployed, no line of action and the most concerned entrepreneurs. His speech worries because he lacks a realistic diagnosis and above all a plan of action. There is no roadmap in economic matters in the Government of Unity. For you, the big balance is that Galicia was going very well, better than the rest before the crisis and that Galicia is also better during the crisis. But the truth is that Galicia loses opportunities, that there is less capacity for employment, that it is a country where the possibilities for the future are smaller and that that is why the population also falls, because where there is employment there are citizens willing to be working, to generate wealth and to contribute. And here we lose the busy population and we have to see what the effect of this crisis is on the occupied population of the country. Its vision was partial and biased by certain indicators that try to prevent us from having a community with less income, less wages and a less dynamic and less competitive economy and that 70,000 jobs were lost from 2009 to 2020 - 70,000 are less occupied at the same time that in Spain 670,000 jobs were created -. This crisis of cowardice is a warning to all. Galicia suffered a very severe fall in the production level, in the second quarter, a drop of 17.9%, where 22% of Galician workers were affected by ERTE or redundancies, where industrial production fell by 42%, where business figures in the service sector fell by 19%, where exports dropped by 35.4% in the worst moments of the crisis. It's a historic recession in Galicia too. It's an economy with less cyclical behavior, with less peak behavior, but very strong, in addition to in inns, in leisure, in culture, in tourism, in transport. We need something else, because it's true that having an economy based on a certain level in the agri-food sector or also on the evolution of automotive, which depends on external factors, has implied that dynamism makes the fall not as deep as in other communities, where the level, for example, of international tourism is decisive. But it's true that in a poorer community, if we still have a crisis, what the Greeks and the Greeks receive is more risky, there's a deterioration in the living conditions of many people, there's more people affected by unemployment, there's a more complex situation for long-term unemployed, there's and there'll be more homes without income and damage to collectives and young people. There are problems. The European Union looked for a new time, moved on to the paradigm of orthodoxy and austerity, looked for new mechanisms: broadening debt, assuming new policies and extra funds of covid in agreements as never before. In Spain too, it has advanced in social innovations such as ERTE, such as minimum vital income, such as opening up to self-employed people. What is Galician model? What is the model of the autonomous community to face all these challenges? There is no programme, no measures or economic plan for Galicia. There is no diagnosis of the production structure or the cycle, no balance of the impact of the vault, no challenges to cover; and the most worrying, no measures or orientation. That is why we need to carry out this commission for the economic and social reconstruction of the country, where we are going to contribute, where we want to collaborate and give the best of ourselves in the face of this lack of projects for the country's economy in macro policies, micro policies and sectoral policies. Because you announced a reactivating plan of EUR 3,000 million in campaign that didn't involve anything, because you announced in campaign that 15,000 public employment squares would be created and I don't know if it was a fake news because yesterday in your investment speech you didn't even transfer the electoral commitment to generate 15,000 public employment squares. It was their commitment to the rules that exist and must comply with the growth, employment, for the defence of the productive sectors. [[Applause]] There is a need for a new economic policy that is linked to digitization, to the energy and ecological transition, because the generation of energy with fossil fuels has been abandoned, because these new working relationships are necessary that they study how they affect the telematics issue, and it is also necessary to meet the demographic challenge, because it is necessary that, after the last four years there has not been economic policy for the rural environment and there has been no progress, action is now being taken, and because a new industrial policy is needed. The powers given to us by the Statute are full in economic matters and, of course, they have a capacity to develop industrial policy, but there is none. In eleven years you throw balloons out, you get profiled; you have to move forward and you have to work. Who's got the chance to find an investor for a company like Alcoa in Lugo? Why hasn't the Joint Government been working since the first time? We want to ask you to commit yourself, to work everywhere for employment and industrial activity in Alcoa San Cibrao, and there will be a great deal of agreement to look for all measures to guarantee that job in the face of the lack of functions of a government of the Union that nothing has posed, that nothing has solved and that has had no chance; all measures, because our commitment is to Galicia, it is to the Greeks and to the Greeks. We have to work on reindustrialization of areas like The Bridges, like Cerceda; and of course we have to do so in collaboration with the Government of Spain. And, of course, we will support all those reindustrialization projects, those future projects that the Council of Economics and Industry presents to the Greeks and to the Greeks. We need to reformulate the Igape to make it an agency of genuine economic promotion, of industrial impulse, attached to productive tissue, not just like a liquidity agency. We have to look for these mechanisms too to give the workers of Navantia all the possibility of workload until the frigates arrive. This new sector policy is needed in tourism, culture, hospitality and also in R & D+i policies. Mr. Feijóo, it's also time for a great deal of agreement on regeneration and institutional quality in Galicia. That agreement has to go through different areas. Here, in Parliament's opinion, a great deal must be reached so that, after the absence of the President of the Chair at the parliamentary headquarters throughout all that goes on year, especially in the crisis of the vault, Mr President, the candidate for the presidency, undertakes to appear during the time of the crisis of the vault at least once every month in order to be able to share, discuss, analyse and propose proposals for our Galicia. The President of the Council of Galicia must be performing his duties in the Executive and also fulfilling such difficulties with accountability before this Parliament. We must also work for this institutional quality with a re-consideration of the use made by the People's Party of the Public Media of Galicia and the TVG. In this legislation there has to be a change and it has to be a change also for plurality, for impartial information, for the quality of the work of professionals who ask to defend Galicia continuously for so many weeks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u3	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u4	We want to ask you, Mr. Feijóo, a great deal with the Town Councils. You sit with the mayors of the great cities of Greece, feel to talk to them, to cooperate, to reach agreements, and sit with them too, Mr. Feijóo, to explain to us all and all the lethal agreement you had in the city of Ourense, where you set the greatest example of chryspation, tension, of the spooky municipal policies of all the cities of Galicia and all the cities of Spain. That's their responsibility, that of a People's Party who still says today that he goes after the government agreement in Ourense, which is an agreement that outrages citizenship, an agreement against nature, and that he has put the third largest city in Galician population in a situation of inaction, paralysis and political shame. You have the responsibility to fix it because you created it. [[Applause]] Mr. candidate for the Presidency of the Union, the Greek Socialists are the alternative to the People's Party, and I know that I have made a different approach, with many alternative approaches to which the People's Party represents, but I mean that from the staff and from the politician we are willing to contribute, and that if any of my words can be understood as an exercise of tension, let it not be done, because our will is to contribute, to collaborate, to come to agreements, to work for Galicia, because that's what the Greeks and the Greeks are asking us to do. Carballo Calero — to whom we dedicated the Day of the Galleges Letters — spoke of that phrase that said: "We hope against all hope." I want to tell you, candidate, that in this legislation we have that hope and that you do not make that hope go forward; that we have the ability to contribute. I want to end by saying that this is the legislation on the protection of people. And there's no better way to protect people than to apply the powers -- broad competences -- that in an autonomous state gives the Statute of autonomy of Galicia to the Government that you preside over. [[Applause]] In all fundamental areas you have subjects and many exclusive competences, and for that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u5	Thank you, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u6	...the best agreement we can have for the Greeks and for the Greeks is to fulfil the powers given by the Statute of Government of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u7	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u9	Thank you, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u10	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u11	For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, the candidate for the presidency of the Union, I am going up to this gallery knowing that this is no longer a legislation. We're living an exceptional moment and, in a way, Galicia today isn't the same Galicia six months ago. This is the legislation in which we have to deal with the consequences of a pandemic that leaves us some 17,000 people infected, an 18% drop in gross domestic product and the loss of thousands of self-employment and businesses. But, no doubt, the highest price of this crisis is the people who lost their lives. In Galicia there are already 651 victims who leave a deep wound and who will always be in our memory and in our heart. [[Applause]] Over the course of these months, I have often asked myself a question: how much is a person's life worth? How much is the life of our daughters, of our couples, of our parents, of our friends? There's nothing more important to me than those lives. That's why I think the best tribute we can pay them is not minutes of silence or monuments, but to put people's lives ahead of them, to defend a public health free of cuts and never again to do business with the right to a decent old age. [[Applause]] As public servants and servants, we have the difficult task of getting the country forward, we have the obligation to defend public services, the rights of the majority of society, and to work for economic and social reactivation to give hope to the thousands of people who live today in fear. If there's a time when it's urgent to do politics with capital is this, and that's BNG's intention. We're going to be aware of the responsibility that the Greeks and the Greeks gave us to start, from now on, raising the country, and as soon as they can look to the future with hope. Our commitment to the Greeks and to the Greeks is complete, with each and every one of them, to vote for what they voted for, we will work in this Parliament for all and, in particular, for those people and groups most affected by the crisis. [[Applause]] I want to tell those people that the BNG will not fail, that the 19 Members and Members of the Block are going to give the best of ourselves and that we are going to work energetically to respond to their concerns and to provide solutions to the problems that often take away their sleep. I want to make it clear that the BNG is going to make a critical but constructive opposition, of strict control over the government, but by hand, because it is time to add and dialogue, and because we have the conviction that this must be the legislate of the major agreements in favour of Galicia. It's not times of short-term pracism, of sterile parties, of blind and deaf absolutism, when we're playing the future and when we're at risk for people's health and lives. And we have to put life at the heart of our political action; the life of those precarious women who were essential in the toughest moments of the pandemic, and I want to speak proudly of the work of cleaning workers, supermarkets, residences, home or health aid; children and children who have the right to be educated in a safe environment. [[Applause]] As a country, we must spare no effort in investing in the most important, which is their education, and we must put the lives of the young and young, who have the right to have a future here, because there is a generation that is tired of always having to choose between precariousness and emigration... we will work to give you a future in this country! Because, today, the Greeks and the Greeks are waiting for solutions, for anticipation and for leadership. Therefore, Mr. Feijóo, your speech on Tuesday was disappointing and disturbing; disappointing because, at a time when we are seeing the coward sharpen a cycle end, you do not leave the routine or repeated promises; worrying because you do not take your responsibilities or acknowledge the errors of your management. You were saying that you missed the central government leading the fight against the coward. I tell you today that we miss a President of the Union who exercises as such, to deal with the country's worst health and economic crisis in recent decades. Put your batteries on, Mr. Feijó! [[Applause]] A leader anticipates problems; a leader governs by assuming responsibilities; a leader does not hide, as you do, nor throws balloons out when they come badly given. During the confinement, you campaigned by using Galician Television in an obscene way, which we paid the Greeks and the Greeks — a hundred million euros that come out of taxes. At that time he appeared, day itself and day too, and from his own private place there the president preached solutions for all that the central government did wrong. [[Applause]] That's right, once the election's over, recovered all the competitions, you're gone, and your TV magic recipes, too. Where are the solutions now, Mr. Feijóo? Where are they? That's the question we ask ourselves. Today we do not have a clear protocol of action in the event of majorities, which causes such disparate situations as they have closed The Navy with hundreds of infections and no community transmission, and yet, in the Coruña, with more than a thousand infections and with community transmission, they have been weeks without making any decision. Explain to us what the criterion is to prohibit, for example, that in Santiago de Compostela there will not be a meeting of ten family members who are not cohabiting and, however, allow in the same city twenty-five children and children together in a classroom. Galicia, Mr. Feijóo, has the worst tracking data in the Spanish state, the worst: only the origin of 20% of the infection is located. And they act with a scary opacity and frivolity: May 11th to Join announced that the trackers would be twenty, two weeks later it was fifty, a month later it was six thousand! It's just that, in your opinion, everyone who works at the Health Council is a tracker; this is indeed a pioneer! Come on... one single case, Mr. Feijóo! We wonder what Mr Feijó did for these six months. Because everyone knew it was fundamental that there were trackers, everyone knew when the school course began and that it was essential that children and girls had an answer. I myself recognized during the campaign that no government was prepared to face a pandemic like this. What can't be that, after several months, what you see is improvisation; improvisation before such a serious subject as the start of the course — your government knew from March 14 that on September 10 it would have to go back to class. They had six months to schedule a safe course, he could decide to hire more teachers and he didn't, he could reduce the ratios and he didn't, he could train the staff and he didn't, he could dialogue and agree with the educational community and he didn't; and instead of recognizing that he didn't do his homework, what he's looking for is to blame him. Before this crisis there were many people we asked ourselves to serve a Ministry of Education when the powers were transferred. In view of this crisis, the question we are asking ourselves is why it serves an education council which is neither expected nor expected. It's just that, a week from starting school, there are parents and mothers who don't even know if their children are going to go on time tomorrow or afternoon. [[Applause]] I don't know if you know what it means to reconcile families; if you don't know it, bad, and if you know it and act this way, worse, because it looks like they're taking the hair off of the people of this country. [[Applause]] In short, six months later we don't have enough trackers and we need the Army to come to save him, and six months later we don't have an effective protocol for the back to class, and you, personally, have asked the Minister of Education to centralize the return to classes. This crisis, Mr. Feijóo, leaves bare his lack of foresight, management and ability to face the challenges we have. But the thing is, this isn't all. The bloodiest thing is, of course, what has happened to the senior residences, the treatment that the older people received at the time when the institutions needed the most. Mr. Feijó, put yourself in the skin of a Welshman who has suffered the loss of a family member in a residence. After months of not being able to see him, after not being able to go to his burial, after not even being able to share his grief with the families, he has to hear that the president uses that death as another figure to compare himself to an average. He literally said: "We have less mortality in residences than in the whole of Spain, seven times less deaths than those that correspond to us by population." Mr Feijóo, I have to tell you that this has been one of the most embarrassing moments I have seen since I was a Member of this Parliament. [[Applause]] And what you have to do is tell us what's going on in the residences. How could it be that after all that happened — that we had to learn — we already had three new seriously infected residences? We want to know what interests they have in that sector, which is due to the lack of transparency. I am glad that our group will bring to the first plenary meeting in this Parliament the creation of an investigation committee to find out what happened in the homes of older people. With regard to the victims, who have the right to know the truth; but above all, because we must learn from mistakes so that they will not be made again in the future. And at that moment, Mr. Feijóo, you'll have to portray yourself, and we'll know whether you want to be with the truth and with the families or what other dark interests you're defending. [[Applause]] And we've demanded that in a matter like this they don't go through the trouble, they're going ahead. And anticipating means correcting what's not doing right. And it's obvious that, as long as this pandemic lasts, the Galician Union should intervene all private residences, to avoid the problems we're seeing. It's just that we have to make sure that these people will have the attention they need and that they will have the doors of hospitals open whenever necessary. Because, look, what's going on in the Incio, in Culleredo and on King's Hill is a warning, is the warning that something is failing, and your responsibility is to put measures to correct it. And so I have to admit that, with which you are falling, I waited for your speech much more than in an ad enumeration. I was hoping for a minimum of empathy, a minimum of attachment to reality, and the truth is, I'm surprised that, even in the worst crisis of the last decade, you're able to break up that script so predictable that it comes here, with headlines that, most of the time, they don't actually fit into anything. With rabbits of the joke, with laws that never are drafted, with plans that are not realized, with measures that then have no scope, with proposals without funding...; ultimately, with empty rhetoric coming here at this time that nothing brings, because nothing can be achieved when words and facts walk in opposite directions. Everything promised is done: you promised a fund for growth; you promised investments in structural reform reforms for dairy and forestry; you promised a talent collection program; you promised to retain the best trained researchers; you promised to attract researchers from outside in strategic areas; you promised that Pemex was going to establish its Europe logistics base in Punta Langosteira; also promised that Pemex would renew his entire fleet here; he promised to retain the best trained researchers; he promised to retain the best trained researchers; he promised to attract researchers from outside in strategic areas; he promised to attract researchers from outside in strategic areas; he promised that Pemex would establish its Europe logistics base in Punta Langosteira; he also promised that Pemex would renew here all of its fleet; he promised to keep the forest management and reduce fires; he promised to expand the territorial bases in the past legitimacy landfill; he promised a plan to industrialization of the population crisis; he promised to promise new business routes for the auxia promised; he promised us the greatest promised us the biggest in the new world world of the new world of the world of the new world; he brought back in the new fleet of the new stock markets; he has already made a new stock market in stock market; he promised a new stock market market in the city in the city; he promised; he promised to be in the city in the city; he promised to be in the city; he promised to make a world; he promised a world; he promised a new land in the real in the real in the real market in the supply of supply of supply of supply of supply; he promised; he promised to be in the real market; he promised; he promised to be in the real estate in the real market in the real market; he promised; he promised; he promised to have a world; he promised a world; he promised a world; he promised a world; he promised a world; he promised a world; he promised a world in the real market in the real market in the world; he promised a world; he promised a world; he promised a world; he promised a world in the real market in the real market in the real market in the real market in the real market in the real market in the supply of the real market in the supply of a world in the United United United United United United United United United United United United United United United United United United United United Nations in the world; he promised; he Do you really, Mr. Feijóo, give you no hurry, not for a moment, to see that your word has no value? And, above all, do you really think that you can face the consequences of coward 19 — the painful economic and social consequences of the pandemic — with the same measures, promises and expired revenues? [[Applause]] We, of course, do not think so; that is why we said from the beginning, already at the time of March, that this situation, that this crisis, requires new ideas, learn from lessons that leave us and from major country agreements; that we all sit down and talk and add up. Because to defend health and contribute to economic and social reactivation, we are all important. That's why I am grateful that you now add to that proposal that a great deal of country agreement is needed, even if it's six months later. In order for this proposal not to remain in an empty advertisement, I ask you to carry it out. Yesterday we were told by this reactivating committee in Parliament, an expert committee and social dialogue. And I wonder how we can articulate dialogue and agreement by plots. Why do you want to split the dialogue instead of join it? Wouldn't it be much better if we could sit all together on the same table, a table that is representative of Greek society? Because a country agreement for economic and social reactivation cannot only be the result of a dialogue embodied in a commission, it must be all trade unions, the entrepreneurship, universities, municipalities, professionals and health experts, care, feminism, ecology, the most dynamic sectors of Galician society. I hope, Mr. Feijóo, that you will not notice that we all sit at the same table to talk together and together about the future of this country. [[Applause]] And since BNG we have made it clear that this country has a future, that we will go ahead if we trust in our own forces and in all the potential that Galicia has. I am convinced that Galicia has everything to be the envy of Europe in this new time. But that requires breaking with routine, self-confidence and country ambition. So, I would like in coherence to transfer some of the proposals that we consider urgent and necessary at BNG in addressing the future and in building this great country agreement, where the priorities must be three: social, economic reactivation and the defence of Galicia's interests before the state. Obviously, the first priority must be the social agenda. We saw how the crisis of cowardice exposed the grave consequences of eleven years of cuts and privatization both in health care and education and in the care of older people. Our health care - we must recognize it - has great professionals, who have compensated with their dedication for the consequences of their cut, Mr. Feijóo. We believe that the way to thank this job is not a hotel check or a weekend, it's decent working conditions to end the precariousness. That must be the priority: to end with a shameful fact that Sergas is today the main temporary company in Galicia. [[Applause]] And I want to welcome you and ask you to remove the replacement rates. Those replacement rates, by the way, that your party has maintained every year he has been ruling in Madrid. And I suppose you already know that there is, thanks to a BNG proposal, an agreement in Congress to eliminate the replacement rates. [[Applause]] So, now what we need is your commitment that you're going to take the six thousand vacant squares out of Sergas. Because that's what these staff are demanding we applaud in the windows, and now we have to give them stability and the future. And within the emergencies of the social agenda, it's also a priority, therefore, to reverse its cuts into public health. And for that, first of all, we have to start by strengthening primary care. A plan of EUR 200 million must already be put in place to equip it with more resources and means, to deal with this second wave of the vault, and to be able to be precisely that containment barrier and recover the management with its own capacity and own budgets. The second is to define primary care. In this country, no one understands how we can go for a cane, but medicine is still on the phone. The future of health cannot be the distance between the doctor and the patient. And thirdly, in the hospital area, there is a shock plan against waiting lists, which were high and which grew during the pandemic, which will enable us to meet the health needs of the population as a whole. And in this social agenda, more than ever, we have to talk about teaching. This crisis has shown that the economic resources or the place where you live mark access to education. There's a social crack and there's a digital crack. And we can't afford it, because there can't be first and second students, nor first and second schools. That's why we demand you to abandon improvisation and to consent to a safe classroom, where ratios are reduced at all levels, where you hire more teachers, where the student is cared for with special educational needs and where the board is responsible for services that are basic, such as the dining rooms, or that you understand that for many families that have already been drowned by the end of the month, the expenditure of masks is inescapable. [[Applause]] We ask you to start the distribution of free masks in school. [[Applause]] And we demand foresight. We, of course, argue that education must be present. But, seeing things go, it seems important that there is a plan B. And I hope, Mr. Feijóo, that you have that plan B and that, if we unfortunately have to activate it, we don't see it asking you to save the Minister of Education. Mr. Feijóo, it's your competition and it's your responsibility. [[Applause]] And I also want to highlight some of the measures in the area of caring for older people. In Galicia, about 12,000 homes are missing in order to comply with the World Health Organization's recommendations. The PP model consisted of not doing anything in eleven years and turning into a business the right to a decent old age. The failure of this model is in sight. Our alternative is very clear: to bet on a new model of residences, 100 percent public, with middle-sized centers, with a democratic management where families and residents participate and more ensuring staff enough for decent and quality care. It's the least we owe our elders when they need care, after a hard life of effort. The second priority of this great country agreement must be economic reactivation. In this respect, the fundamental thing is that we do not drop the industry we have. And I want to move all support from Endesan workers to the Bridges and Alcoa in San Cibrao, and ask him to work for his government, not to hide behind the Central Government, to work for Galicia to receive the funds we need to make a fair energy transition and solutions to the Navy region. But it's also obvious that we have to walk towards a new economic model, a model that bets on the green economy, renewable energy and innovation. And in this model it is key, firstly, to change the energy model and the role of Galicia in this area of the state. That's why we want to move forward towards a Welsh electric tariff that undermines the bill of light to families and businesses, to move forward in a plan to boost clean energy and self-consumption, as well as that the benefits of electricity production remain in the country. And it can be done with public participation in the development of new clean energy projects and recovering for direct management of hydroelectric power plants. The second pillar of this new model must be research and innovation. And the truth is, Mr. Feijóo, that his government has left us a less innovative country. Galicia invests in R+D+i a very low 0.94% of GDP, a percentage that is lower than when it arrived at the government, which was in 2008 1.04%, and which is far from European average, where in countries like Germany it is around 3%. Mr. Feijó, you like socks a lot, but I imagine this one doesn't interest you. And we have this very clear: the future goes through science and innovation, and Galicia can be a reference in this field. So we propose to make innovation and science a country priority. And for that, we need to double funding for science and innovation in this legislation, with a goal, which is to get us to invest in R & D+i 2.5 % of the German gross domestic product. We have to create instruments like Inogal to capture and retain talent and end the career, with precariousness, by defining a research career. [[Applause]] And to advance on this line, a country needs industry. And it's impossible to move forward when their industrial policy is really the turning door. We propose that Galicia have industrial policy, with an objective that is to place the weight of the Welsh industry in GDP at 25% in 2030. And this can be achieved by measures such as a Greek reindustrialization plan in strategic sectors, such as aeronautical, agro-industry, automotive or driving the audiovisual industry, with a law that combats relocations and with a strategy to create a network of companies that close the production cycles in the country, and accompanying with measures in the financial field, reformulating the Igape and betting by a public bank in Galicia, without forgetting that we have to support our productive sectors: fishing, seafood, agriculture, livestock and changing the forest model. Because in this country, not only do we have the challenge of getting Cence out of Pontevedra's creek, we have the challenge of taking it out of the board of directors. [[Applause]] And finally, the third priority of this great country agreement must be to defend the interests of Galicia, the government which governs. Galicia suffers the consequences of eleven years where you have passed from submission to Rajoy to sterile confrontation simply because they do not rule their own. And right now what you need to do is put first the interests of Galicia, rule who governs, and we have to do what you haven't done in these eleven years. And there's a very important point in this agenda: how are we going to fund recovery? And we want to make three proposals in this area: The first proposal is that we have made by consensus in this Parliament criteria and projects to defend against the distribution of these EUR 140 billion from the European Union, which will be important for financing economic and social recovery. The second proposal is that Galicia cannot continue to lose funding which has expired since 2014. We need to defend a new model of funding. Do you know what our proposal is? We believe that the best is an economic concert that allows Galicia to manage 100 percent of our resources, but we also know that this will not be achieved in one day. So we propose that, as long as there isn't this new financing model, we call for corporate tax management, which would allow us to count about a figure of around EUR 5 billion plus every year. The third proposal is to defend that the municipalities can spread their full capacity in coping with the struggle against the coward. For that, we have to derogate the Montoro Law and we have to lift that veto so that the municipalities can use their savings in favour of neighbouring. And also working to end up with a financing model that discriminates against the municipalities of this country, which receive on average about 50 euros less than that of the state. But there are other issues that are important to our development in this agenda to defend Galicia's interests. There are too many pending infrastructures in our country, you have to pay off your debt in infrastructure. And it's not just about the AVE, it's about the modernization of the railways all over the country, the sea lanes, improving the connections of our ports or the Atlantic freight corridor. And finally, we must aspire to the most self-government. It's been eleven years since he got a record that's very sad: not a single new competition for Galicia. And this weakens Galician position in the state, but also weakens our ability to respond to citizens at a time like this. And we are convinced that with more self-government and more decision-making capacity we will give better answers to today's demands for Greek citizenship. That is why we want to ask you, as soon as the Government — which is going to be this weekend — to activate the Joint Transfers Commission, to demand the pending ones, and to make up a presentation in this Parliament to talk to all of us. Because improving Galician self-government can't become a taboo. We want to open this debate, calmly, about a new institutional framework, where we believe that Galicia must be recognized as what we are: a nation, but above all, we need to have more political power, more tools and tools to give answers to Galicia in the 21st century and Galician cowardice. [[Applause]] These are some of the issues in which we think it's important to work and move forward to reach agreements. But I didn't want to end this intervention without talking about anything else. Mr. Feijó spoke to us in moderation in his intervention, and I want the animal to practice that moderation. I want to ask you to be moderate in language policy. Our language, which unites us more with the Greeks and the Greeks, has suffered a brutal attack on their governments. [[Applause]] And I don't think it's a coincidence that Greek is the only language in the state that loses talkatives, it's no coincidence, it's the result of a very clear policy. And it must be said clearly: their trilinguism is a fallacy, because it has not been able to improve the learning of foreign languages, nor has it achieved anything positive, only it has made it deteriorate and tarnish the language itself of the Greeks and the Greeks. So let's dedefinite the Welsh language, dare leave that decree behind. And we also misappropriate our culture, because Greek culture is much more than an appendix to tourism and Xacobeo, it is a central element of our identity, but it is also an economic element, which never needs support, because part of the cohesion and social development of a country is also measured by the support given to our creators and creators. [[Applause]] And we ask you to moderate the use of TVG as your private advertising office. That's why it would be key to show us that we're going to have a director or director at CRTVG before the end of the year, who will not only be appointed by the People's Party, but by a broad consensus of this chamber and with assurances that the TVG will be again of the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Applause]] We also ask for moderation in protecting and using anti-democratic and corrupt formulas, such as buying wills because we do not accept what citizens vote on polls, as we have just seen in Castrelo de Mine and in Viana. [[Applause]] And by the way, too, perhaps, you can explain to us what you've agreed with Jacome. And, above all, if you're happy about where the city of Ourense is walking, because it's your responsibility, isn't it, Mr. Feijóo? [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] And finally, we ask for restraint in not supporting those pacts with the far right of their party, which are attacking the heart of equality and women's rights. And you can start by suppressing the educational concerts with these Opus Dei centers, which separate children. [[Applause]] And also greater momentum in dealing with one of the serious problems of this society, because gender-based violence requires more resources and more actions. We continue to hold hands so that we can have a great deal of agreement and that in this legislation we feel proud and proud to live in a country that devotes one out of every 100 euros to fighting a violence that is killing women for the mere fact of being.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u13	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u14	I'm done, president. I want to end this speech by mentioning a news that we know yesterday and that is all a symbol: for the first time, a judge recognizes what was a cry in this country, that the palace of Meirás is not of the Franco, but the result of a policeman. It's a new one that makes me feel very proud to be a Welshman who talks about the dignity of this people and that it's a triumph in a way of making a country. And behind this news you have to recognize that there is the work of decades of associations of memory recovery; of researchers, like Carlos Babío; the work of BNG years in Sada and in this parliament, first, alone and then achieving unanimity; actions such as the "19th of Meirás", which will be judged for claiming that the palace is the people; such impulses as Goretti Sanmartín gave in the Crown Deputies, when preparing the first report of an official institution that gives legal basis to today's judgment, and to which was also added that report which he made to the Council of Galicia. So this sentence is a success of Galicia and all of us and all of us who have long thought that the palace of Meiraes is much more than a palace, it is a symbol. [[Applause]] Getting the palace back might seem impossible years ago or a utopia, but today it's closer, and it shows that there's another way to build Galicia when we think big. That's how we conceived the country in the BNG. And I want to thank everyone very sincerely and each one of them, those 310,137 people, who last July took the BNG paper and referendumd that way of understanding and thinking about our land, because it's important how we conceived the country. And these are times when we have to think about Galicia that we want, we have to design Galicia for the future in economics, in socials, in culturals, and do it with ambition, with confidence in our own possibilities, because this is a great country and we have all the right, it's more: I would say we have every obligation to think big. We don't put ourselves in line when it comes to giving you alternatives to the future of the Galicians and the Greeks. And with that spirit we will work for Galicia every day and for its people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u16	With the coming, Mr. President. Mr. candidate and ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we certainly have some exceptional moments. If every parliamentary democracy has as one of the essential points the formal moment of investment, because we culminate in the essential process of democracy, which is that citizenship freely elects its representatives, and these from the legislative point of view, which represents the whole society - here we are the representatives of the whole society and of all the collectives who plurally integrate it - because we are, representing the whole society, the ones who are going to give confidence not only to a candidate, but also to a programme, which was the one who competed with the investment session. Well, today in the middle of a pandemic, as humanity hasn't lived for a century, in addition to the usual responsibility that requires the support of a candidate and a program, I think we are facing a moment when responsibility is even more important and is even more essential. Nearly six hundred and fifty dead in Galicia, their families, the more than three thousand and eight hundred sick people today who suffer from the coronavirus and their close friends, those we transmit our support and solidarity, need to address the debate and all our action, not only today but in the coming months and years, with the greatest responsibility. A great European historian, and also a Europeanist, the British Tony Judt, in his book The Weight of Responsibility, which is a book where he makes a beautiful intellectual appearance of three great men: Leon Blum —French socialist leader— Albert Camus and Raymond Aron, updated the old distinction that he had already drawn over a century ago, in which he distinguished -- as everyone knows -- in the book Politics as a vocation to the ethics of convictions, which justifies political action on certain absolute principles or values, regardless of which their consequences are, and the ethic of responsibility, which defines who acts in the light of which are the possible results of their performance, and which is also justified precisely because the foreseeable consequences of each action are feasible in a world that does not necessarily respond to -- as we know -- the rationalities of moral cutting. Well, for Tony Judt the responsible action of public men is characterized by three elements: first of all, political responsibility, which implies putting before the general interests or common to legitimate interests, partisans, sectorials, themselves; that is, putting before people about militancy. Secondly, a moral responsibility, which is to maintain loyalty to the institutional democratic system, which also precedes the legitimate ideological commitment each one has. And thirdly, intellectual responsibility, which entails addressing analytical objectivity, taking into account the specialized knowledge that outside ideological debates develops both men and women, which advance natural sciences but also social sciences. And the responsible exercise of our public performance demands as a starting point to recognize what is the reality of the situation we are in, because without a diagnosis we can hardly start walking. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is the matter. It's not about reproducing speeches from an electoral campaign that's already over, it's about responding from now on, moving forward in solving problems, because citizenship is watching us, and it's not going to evaluate us for our dialectic ability or ideological commitment, but because we're able to face the serious crisis that we're suffering. [[Applause]] Well, Galicia had a reasonably good situation at the end of 2019, because we have already surpassed the crisis of 2009, we had five years of growth to an annual measure of 2.5 of GDP, we have reduced by more than nine points the unemployment rate, the process of convergence in GDP per capita with Spain was at its highest point, now at 91%, in 2019 the Greek wages increased by 3.5% all over the year, compared to 1.6% in Spain, and we also set it up with healthy finances, which allowed quick payment to suppliers. We were also better at social indicators. Society was more egalitarian, whatever the measurement index -- Gini or 2020 -- both with regard to Europe and, of course, much more with Spain, which is one of the most unequal countries in Europe. We had fewer families in poverty than the Spanish average. The historical figure of life expectancy in 83.4 years speaks well of the social indicators of our country. And, of course, this had to do with improved public services, both in health care - as the health barometer shows - and in education, as evidenced by the PISA report. All this, in addition, by making a fundamental productive transformation, balancing the sectors, opening up our economy, which struck export marks. Certainly, we didn't live in the idyllic or yellow country. We were dealing with a lot of problems, some of them in the short term: the electro-intensive industry with Alcoa, which we all know where the solution is. Secondly, with the industry installed on the coast, for example, it preserves it, that it has had exemplary behavior throughout the pandemic and that it has threatened its continuity by a legislative project that is being processed in the Courts, or, for example, the issue of power stations, particularly The Bridges, the victim of a hasty and unfair transition and, in addition, without alternatives. Decisions which, of course, correspond to other political bodies. Or, for example, the Ferrol shipyards, after the delay of the F-110, lack of temporary solutions, request in the House a ship, an AOR, or the ten frigates of the United States were lost. So there are problems in the short term, and that's why your workers are at the doors to remind us. Galicia faced not only short-term problems, but also medium- and long-term structural problems, many of them also shared with other autonomous communities, Europe and much of the developed world: First, the climate challenge. We have the challenge of energy transformation, rationalization of water resources, forest fires, drought plans, of course the environmental challenge, treating waste, closing the water cycle, promoting the circular economy or promoting and ending the orderly use of the territory. We also had the great demographic challenge and social cohesion, public services that promote equal opportunities by improving health, which continues to be in Spain and Galicia free and public and universal. Secondly, education, which, I insist, is greatly improved, as shown not only by the PISA reports, but also by the significant reduction in dropout rates. And, of course, also the demographic challenge itself with positive balances over the past few years — particularly the last one — in the balance between entries and exits, which leave only a small glimpse of hope before the decline of birth with two obvious risks: both intergenerational, with aging and care, as well as interterritorial, with areas in our country that lose population and are therefore abandoned. And, of course, we moved forward too, and we had the challenge of cohesion, dignity, tolerance, the right to housing, non-discrimination and attention to collectives in social exclusion. Of course, Galicia in 2019 had the challenge of innovation as a modernizing element of our productive system: to definitely incorporate our digital society, with investments in 5G infrastructures and boosting R+D+i; enhancing the classic strategic sectors such as automobile, naval, forestry, textile or food; the new positions on the hand of this government in the aerospace field, biotechnology and energy; and, of course, also defending services, trade and tourism, which has an additional opportunity with Xacobeo next year. Galicia finally faced problems with optimism overcome the financial crisis and in better position than in other stages of its own history, and much better position also than many autonomous communities in Spain. But all of a sudden the virus came up, we were hit by the pandemic. A completely unknown virus, of which we soon discovered its danger for the ability to transmit and expand, for the lethality superior to other known viruses, and also especially dangerous for older people with a lower immune system or with previous pathologies. He beat us all without exclusion and made us realize our vulnerability. I brought the concept of uncertainty back to the first line. The world already knows that it lives in uncertainty and also has risks, we know from Frank Knight that we can easily live with the risks because they are quantifiable, but precisely uncertainty is not quantifiable and therefore it is much harder to live with it. Time will come to know the reasons why the incidence of the pandemic especially affected Spain. But we would do wrong as a society if we didn't assume that its effects were particularly devastating in our country. Country with one of the worst incidence rates of the coronavirus, with the worst figures in Europe in cumulative incidence, with a rate of functions per 100,000 inhabitants similar to Britain and which only exceed Peru and Belgium, and which is above countries that apparently faced the pandemic much worse, such as the United States, Brazil, Sweden or Mexico. And the difference in these countries, in addition to Spain, has had the worst and most severe confinement of our surroundings, of all the OECD countries; which, in turn, has caused unprecedented economic unemployment. In fact, the Spanish economy is falling in two semesters around 18.5; Portugal — the second most fallen country — does not reach 14; Germany only fell 10; France, 13; and England alone exceeds 20%, because it accumulates the problems of the pandemic with its own overruns of the abandonment of the European Union. In unemployment we are the first in Europe, only equal to Greece. Europe is unemployed by 7.1 following the pandemic, Eurozone 7.8 and Spain, without temporary employment regulation records, 15.6. And once we've passed the peak of the pandemic, after this economic failure, we see in August that we're heading back negative rankings of the outbreaks. In the last week of the month, 114 infections per 100,000 inhabitants; a faster expansion than in the United States, doubles that of France, multiplied by eight in Italy and the United Kingdom, and ten in Germany. Fortunately, with an affect on younger people and therefore with less mortality, and also with a more prepared system, logically, after the worst peak of the pandemic. Certainly, Galician data, being dramatic, without palliatives, are not so bad in the Spanish context, because incidence and mortality rates are significantly lower, even in residences. The average of Spain — as you know — is 1.75, and Galicia is 0.79 — the third lowest in all autonomous communities, after Andalusia and Canary Islands, and, of course, far away from other communities like Catalonia, which exceed 2.5—. Despite the harshness of confinement, the best and fastest escalation left us in Galicia a less bad situation also in economics. Galicia is one of the four autonomous communities with less GDP fall — according to the IGE—: in the first quarter it was 3.6 and in Spain 4.1; in the second, 17.9, while in Spain it was 22.1. Of course, this has to do with our structure — which I have made earlier reference — since the agricultural sector is more powerful in our community than others that have a greater weight in the tourism sector, but also because there was industrial recovery, because it was invested in the automobile cluster, because there is more confidence, there is more consumption and it has not been seen that much deterioration. So the inter-annual unemployment — which in Galicia rises fifteen points — is also far from Spain, which rises twenty-four points. This can also lead us to another statement: one must bear in mind that the possibility of recovery has to do with the ability to react to expenditure. Here a lot of criticism was expressed about austerity, again not understanding what the adjustments that were to be made in the past meant, that they responded to a Keynesian cycle designed from Europe, which implies that, among other things, when they come badly given as they are now, Europe is turning around with resources. What we're looking at is that the countries that had healed their economy and complied with the rules of fiscal discipline, like Germany, have much more ability to invest to rescue their companies than Spain, which is still far from reaching the targets of deficits close to the budgetary balance and which is therefore much more dependent on European aid and only has margin of reaction. Galician on this, again for having a healthy account, is an exception and has more margin of reaction. Well, this is the situation in which we are and what matters is to learn the lessons of what we've just lived and what we're living so that whenever we manage what's left of pandemic we can overcome the health crisis and, of course, the economic and social crisis that has brought us. I think the lessons learned from the crisis are starting to be clear. Firstly, that we are vulnerable and that vulnerability is shared. And we must remember the existence of a global, social, basic relationship of interdependence for all people. The philosopher Daniel Innerity says that the pandemic is not a divisible good. And that has a consequence: it requires co-governance mechanisms. Secondly, I think we all learn how important institutions are. As some of us know — for example, Mr Caballero — the best way to reduce uncertainty is with institutions that operate, with stable institutions, because they provide predictability to behaviour. Institutional stability is essential. And they are institutionalized organizations from both governments and parliaments, through public health systems, administrative bureaucracy or social organizations, which are actually responding to the pandemic. It is therefore important to maintain and maintain institutions. Third, the importance of experts. Clearly there is a contradiction because despite the insufficiency of knowledge about a new virus, which is not yet fully investigated, the opinion of experts is crucial, and we have also advanced, we can rely on experts. I just want to remember that a century ago, in the years 1917 and 1918, the so-called "Spanish flu" killed — it was calculated — at least 50 million people in a world where 1,800 million people lived. Of course, far away from the figures, as scary as they are, what we're having today, in a world where 7,700 million people live. Because knowing and because the reaction of the experts' hands contributed with decisions to avoid even a worse catastrophe. People died in the streets today, at least those who are unhappy to die, they do it in intensive care units. The importance of experts is also essential for economic reactivation. Here we were the hands of health experts and economic experts, who gave us immediate liquidity measures for the recovery of activity and finally to design future tractor projects. Because one of the mistakes of this crisis is to configure the virus as if we were in a war. There's a famous book by Mancur Olson, called Auxe and the decadence of nations, in which it comes to saying that a war, like rebuilding the country, favors economic recovery. There's no war here, there's no destruction, there's a virus that attacks us. Therefore, war metaphors if some places are unadvisable are in economic terms. What we have to do is get back to work, take advantage of the resources we have and adapt them to the demands that are channelled through European aid towards our country. The fourth lesson is that democracy is efficient. We know this, we know that democracies respond much better to needs. But we also saw in the crisis of the coronavirus that democratic countries like Korea and Japan did much better than authoritarian countries like China, like Brazil or Turkmenistan, for example. The pandemic virus -- it's said -- has also affected the ideological virus of populism, and that's why we also have good evidence on this camera. But the important thing is that restricted democracy, as we have with the Constitution or as the European Union, has proved to be fundamental, which for us is very important because we always defend constitutional order and we always defend a European Union, which has been criticized at the moment was not because it was bigger but because it was smaller. And the fifth lesson is the importance of common, that of all, whether public or private. In the crisis, the market provided food, the public health sector, voluntary social assistance and regulated telecommunications markets. The common was important, regardless of its title. And the common has also strengthened our idea of solidarity. Public social protection systems, which are safe in the face of adversity, are reinforced at a time when a virus attacks randomly, thus generating general uncertainty, no one feels protected and we all feel trapped by total vulnerability. Feelings and the need for security and redistribution instruments have also been reinforced with this crisis. Well, if these are the lessons we've learned from the crisis, the program that the candidate presents seems to us very well suited to deal with the situation in which we are. He's already given examples of entry because we're here today. It was the candidate's performance at the time of the election call, first, delaying it, when the experts said that the worst pandemic would happen just on the date the elections would be called; delaying them, first. Second, following the recommendation of the experts, summoning them to July. Third, not suspending the elections when there was a rush in one of the Galician comarcas. It was always following the advice of experts, but it was also defending institutions, defending democracy and, of course, supporting the stability and efficiency of public decisions. It has, in effect, prevailed over the general interest, which today allows us to be here and not on an election campaign, over any other party interest. [[Applause]] He evaluated the fact that he brought us here, but he also evaluated the program he presented. First, by not forgetting that there are important things together with the urgency, such as the strategic planning I proposed to the House, with the axes based on demographics, economics, innovation, the environment, governance. Of course, because he spoke of the immediate problems that were already pre-existing, that we have not forgotten and that are still to be solved: the naval, Alcoa, The Bridges, and giving absolute priority to the health and economic crisis that brought about the pandemic. It was not an empty programme; eighty-eight concrete proposals, which are also an example of incorporating the main lessons of the pandemic. And precisely because we are fit for this situation, we will certainly vote yes with all responsibility. The speech first collects the need for co-governance, because vulnerability is shared. When a common response framework is called for, for example, a health law, it is because we actually live in a society that needs a common response framework. When a meeting of the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council is called for, it is because we share problems and expenditure needs and we want to agree on criteria for the allocation of funds. When competition is asked for vital minimum income, it's because we have thirty years of risk experience in the face of government inaction and inoperation in providing the aid promised for vital minimum income. When we ask for budget information, it's because uncertainty is total and budget planning for the next year, for 2021, is essential to be able to get out of the crisis. When we ask to participate in the management of the recovery fund, because it will be competent for us to apply on the territory the initiatives that are being pushed forward, it is precisely because we have to prepare ourselves to get out of the crisis. And when we ask to resolve uncertainties about sectors threatened with closure, such as Alcoa, the naval or The Bridges, because they are rules and decisions that correspond to another authority, we don't do it by criticizing or supplanting competences, is because we defend Galicia's interests here and also because it's the recognition that the pandemic puts us in the face of a shared vulnerability that requires collaboration. [[Applause]] Secondly, the programme also makes proposals for institutional improvements from loyalty to existing ones: the Spanish Constitution, the Statute of Self-Government and the European Union, which are fundamental to getting out of the crisis and gave answers during its worst. The state of alarm in the Constitution has allowed confinement, the public health system that manages the Union has come out and has avoided a humanitarian catastrophe and, of course, European aid must allow us to get out much better than if we had to deal with all the expenses generated by our own resources. Certainly, speech strengthens our convictions, but also the constitutional and statutory pact. However, the crisis has shown that these institutions require reforms. The candidate referred to two. First, the need to institutionalize the Conference of Presidents, to be a truly codecision body, requires its institutionalization and, of course, autonomous funding. The reform is paralysed, it has to be simpler, we are seeing that decisions are being made to distribute funds to the edge of the system and that, in addition, they take into account spending criteria that have not been taken into account before, such as the actual cost of providing certain public services. So we need to make a reform of the system of self-financing, bring together the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council and solve some issues that are above the table, for example, that will happen with the negative liquidations of the year 2022, if we are to be subject to what happened to us, the legacy of the previous government with the negative liquidations of the years 2008 and 2009, if it will happen again, or if it is going to look for a different mechanism. The third lesson learned and incorporated into the speech is to count on the experts. We've talked about the Health Committee, which exists, is known, is composed of real people, and there's an economic committee. This has enabled better management, more transparent, and will also facilitate parliamentary work; it facilitates health responses, facilitates responses in residences, also facilitates responses in the education system. Fourthly, it was also a fundamentally democratic speech. The election result was clear, and today there is not much uncertainty as to what the final result of the vote will be. But precisely the exercise of democracy is done when having an increased majority of forty-two seats by the will of the people of Greece, to which we very much appreciate the trust deposited, appears in the chamber with proposals for dialogue: firstly, social dialogue with trade unions and business organisations and, secondly, in Parliament, bringing the reactivation plan and looking for agreements. After the hand held on that which we received from the opposition, we hope that they will be fruitful and enable us to improve what the Government sends us. [[Applause]] But it has also offered pacts to define and advance in the employment agenda, in the economic reactivation, in support of pemmes, in support of the most affected sectors, because the crisis has asymmetric consequences according to the economic sector concerned; to take advantage of the moment of social acceleration that produces the pandemic; to encourage support for the strategic sectors and, ultimately, to work from a strategic point of view, which will be materialized in the new strategic plan for Galicia. And the fifth lesson is the importance of the common; we all go on the same boat and no one should stay behind. In fact, of the eighty-eight proposals that the president made in his speech, forty-one social sound, for the complete renewal of Sergas, for the reinforcement of public health, the public health service, the primary care plan, home hospitalization, technological renewal, the reinforcement of the comarcas hospitals and the best working conditions for the health care staff. Mrs. Pontón, I thought the replacement rates were already fixed, because they were part of the agreement you signed to vote on Mr. Sánchez. I suppose today you'll tell us this will be because you want us to help Mr. Sánchez raise the replacement rates. [[Applause]] And, of course, proposals — I insist: up to 40 — in social services, education, housing, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, like the pandemic, we can all learn things, and I think the candidate adjusted his speech to the new situation, we can also learn everyone from the outcome in the polls. First of all, from a German people who in voting gave us a civic lesson, with a higher participation in five points than that of the Basque Country on the same day. And I also think we're getting better because we have to acknowledge, thank and value, and the opposition has also recognized today the result, which we in turn thank, in the same way that we congratulate all those who share the honour of representing the Greek people. It is true that the elections brought a lesson: those who refused to clean up the democratic process did not enter the House and those who had been in the House for eight years questioning the usefulness of Parliament and questioning the democratic regime of Parliament in Galicia wanted to return to the House and did not return. We can draw a good lesson from this: Galicia supports those who think about Galicia, those who speak about Galicia, those who work for Galicia and those who respect Galician institutions. [[Applause]] And if we all learn this lesson, it'll be easier to come to covenants. We are aware that the pacts are not a clause of accession, we are aware that in the past we have come to important covenants. Today one was mentioned here: the pact that allowed the state lawyer to file a suit, so first of all the property of the palace of Meirás will be restored to the public heritage. We all did it together unanimously. No one should hang the medals, for they all have: the militants of the Block, who have long demanded that things be done; of course, the associations of historical memory; of course, those who worked in all the agencies from Deputy to Councils, but also, of course, this chamber, which itself says is because there was a social consensus, which is what translated this chamber, and it was one of the reasons why the sentence itself was appreciated. That's the way. We can get things, which, as you said, seemed unthinkable years ago, if we worked together since the union and didn't look for maximalistic issues. Of course, the pacts are not for accession, but they are not for adherence to the minority project either. I'm not going to talk — you would understand me — about the correlation of forces to which Gramsci referred, but the fact is that pacts, logically, will have to rotate around the program that has supported most Galicia. And in that environment I appeal to the political, moral and intellectual responsibility of the opposition; of course, we are the first to commit ourselves to doing this exercise of responsibility. And I honestly believe that the candidate has shown in his speech his predisposition to the covenant, to the covenant with other administrations, to the covenant in social dialogue, to the pact in Parliament. And now it's you who have to decide with facts, not just with words, if you anticipate the responsible action that the moment demands or persists in some of the habits that have proliferated in the last legislation. If they are going to exercise political responsibility and are going to make constructive criticisms, participate in political debate with realistic proposals, or try to pull out or provoke situations that — as was said yesterday — is to work so that within four years there is a nationalist president or recover left-wing hegemony, as was said on the election night. Moral responsibility will be exercised by respecting the democratic system. It will be eroded by confusing actions which, for the very reprehensible of a personal nature, cannot be confused with the institutional role of, for example, the head of the State. Because the alleged irregularities of the Emeritus king, to whom the country so much has to thank in the recovery of democracy, do not force itself to pronounce itself on the constitutional system, but rather admit that all problems, including those that may generate the Emeritus king, can be solved through the vigant Constitution. Including the territorial issue, today we have again discussed the institutional framework. Certainly, communities that have sought a new institutional framework or are looking for it, as is the case with Catalonia, do not seem to be the best example to follow. They will either support agreements with other autonomous communities that asymmetrically end up damaging Galicia, as we are dealing with some spending decisions, or, on the contrary, they will defend and not support the central government and will defend Galicia's interests. Thirdly, of course, intellectual responsibility will be exercised. Mrs. Pontón, recognizing that there is academic and scientific authority, both when it comes to assessing the pandemic's groars, to know when it's the best date to convene an election or to calculate the financial costs of a proposal like the cup, that all experts say would be a ruin to Galicia. Or an electric tariff, which the experts we had in the committee in Parliament also showed that Galicia would have an electrical tariff deficit; therefore, it would not lower the receipt of the light of the Greeks, but would rise and, in addition, significantly. Or if it's going to be the force that as today's first part of his speech holds hand, it's predisposed to the pact, or the one that cheers up, after the president's speech, he says in front of the media that they're going to fight against the virus and, in addition, against the virus of a government that has no country ambition. I think this isn't a way to look for pacts, it's not an excessively lucky phrase. Of course, we're going to find pacts in defence of Galicia. We have no dark interest behind us, neither dark nor clear. Mr. Knight, you have to choose between recognizing the reality of data, also the economics, which reflect a more productive, more open economy and which, in addition, converges with Spain. I recognize the reality of competition, because energy is a state competition. The Government of Spain has promised several times a statute for electrointensives, we continue to wait for it. Or, for example, in this matter — to quote the two groups that are now demonstrating — the competence to hire a workload for Navantia. Certainly and above all, Junta has contributed to Navantia's work, and we were criticized for it when talking about marine wind. However, competition is fundamentally state. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we, as I said, are willing, even though we have a vast majority, to seek agreements to bring the country forward in the worst crisis of its contemporary history, with political responsibility, with moral responsibility and intellectual responsibility. With the same responsibility and conviction that we will assess for the fourth time the investment and the program presented to this camera Alberto Núñez Feijóo. Because with them, indeed, we will continue to walk so that Galicia will remain a great country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u17	Thank you, Mr. Puy. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The candidate's reply to the presidency. That's what Mr. Alberto Núñez Feijóo has to say.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u18	Mr President, spokesperson for the Galego Nationalist Bloc, ladies and gentlemen Members of the group, Mr Spokesman for the Socialist Working Party Spanish-PSdG and Members and Members of the group, and Mr Spokesman for the majority parliamentary group and ladies and gentlemen members of the Government in function of the Council of Galicia and Members for the majority group, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin, as could not otherwise, giving the exact information we have at this time in relation to the situation of the pandemic that we have in the autonomous community. Now, with the latest data in Galicia, there are 3,818 people infected with the virus -- that is, 95.6% of all of these people are at home. There are 159 hospitalized people, 4% infected, and 15 people in ICU, 0.4% of total infected. This situation in relation to the same situation we live in at the peak of the pandemic reflects that right now in Galicia we have 92 percent less people in ICU and 83 percent less people in hospital. A new countryman died this morning. They are 651 dead right now, the whole -- I insist, less -- because there may be some event in the last few hours -- that we have in Galicia. And that is, without a doubt, where all groups agree as the greatest concern we have as a society, the greatest concern we have as representatives of these citizens. Currently, the number of cases diagnosed by 100,000 inhabitants in the last 14 days, according to the data provided by the Ministry of Health, in Galicia has a value of 125.6 and in the average of Spain is 211.8. And in the last seven days in Galicia there is a ratio of infected by 100,000 inhabitants of 64.2; and in Spain, 100.8. These are the data, ladies and gentlemen, that we are offering — this government itself — every day at the disposal of the Greeks through the media and of course through the Galician board websites, so that we all have information in real time and there is neither double nor triple accounting with something that, as you will understand, is something that should not be subject to this type of accounting facility. The number of people we have — users and workers — infected in residences are 169 users — i.e. residents — and 64 workers. And the number of people who died in residences in the last few weeks is 11. Since we have 25,000 people in residences, the percentage of infected users and workers is 0.69% of the total number of people who work and who are cared for in all public, private and concerted residences in the autonomous community. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the data. And, as is usual, whenever I have occasion to attend, both in Parliament and in any other institution, it is my duty to give them transparency and clarity, without concealing any single data and without making any kind of game in relation to something that seems to me to be simply humanitarian. The BNG spokesperson started her speech saying, "How much is a life worth?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh The answer is that a life has no price. And therefore for us no life has price. We're not gonna give up any life and we're gonna keep working with all our forces to fight the pandemic. [[Applause]] Mr. Knight, I thank you for your congratulations as winners of the elections we had on July 12 in Galicia. I thank you on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group and on behalf of most of the Greeks who have been able to grant us their confidence for the fourth time. It's true, I'm not going to go in, as you will understand, in how you value this victory and, finally, whether you've participated fewer people or if you've had less votes. Mr. Knight, you'll know who's fit to make this assessment. I simply remind you that the People's Parliamentary Group and the candidates of the People's Party of Galicia have obtained more votes than the Socialist Party and the BNG together. And they got more votes than the Socialist Party, the BNG, and all the political forces who presented themselves to these elections. I think it's so forceful the poll response that I'm starting to contrast the percentage of participation... at least I don't advise you to follow through that old man. In any case, Mr. Knight, you say you dropped your participation to 58%. [[Applause]] That's true, seven points more than in Euskadi, where you, by the way, I think they're going to form government in the next few hours. Mr. Knight, Mrs. Pontón, I do not come here to claim the paternity of this first sentence. There will be several, appeal to the Provincial Court. Let's hope it doesn't go down. I'm afraid so, and then you'll follow the corresponding courts. I'm not here to claim the paternity that Galicia is probably in a position to recover a palace, a building, an immovable property that was from Galicia. It was Galician and, therefore, the logic is that what is Galician is still Greek. But if I come to congratulate the spokespersons of this House — some of them in agreement with the present - which started the political claim and the parliamentary claim of this motion for a resolution. Other administrations have been added up from there. So, all of them — especially the General Administration of the State and the State Lawyer, who brought the demand up — are our recognition in the name of most of the Greeks. I think it's fair to do so because it was this Galician Parliament the first chamber that formally proposed this claiming action, then, yes, not only to make banners but to study, to propose, to recognize and to do something that the rest of the groups have not done: to study legally so that in a state of right to justice act rigorously. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Caballero said that we had to get out of this crisis with formulas different from the formulas we left between 2009 and 2012. We came out of the crisis that left the Socialist Party, by the way, in 2009, and also from that which again left the Socialist Party in the Government of the nation in 2011. And those things are mad at the polls. And from what you can see, most of the Greeks liked how we came out of the crisis, because both in 2012 and in 2016 most of the Greeks thought that what this Government did was what to do — or at least what most of the Greeks would do if they had the responsibility to manage the public accounts. If the European Union and the European Central Bank are now setting different scenarios, let's see exactly what these scenarios are, let's see what requirements we have to meet as a nation, as Spain, let's see exactly how we can get out of this situation. But do not forget, Mr Caballero, that the European institutions, both the Presidency of the European Commission and the European Commissioner for Budgets, as well as the European Central Bank, are ruled by people of the People's Party of Europe. We will therefore come out of this crisis. I hope that with great agreement between the European People's Party — majority — the European Socialist Party and other minor but also important forces in the European House. But to think that we are going to get out of this crisis with socialist policies in the European Commission is simply a mistake that I think should be amended, because the vice-president of the European Central Bank, Mr Guindos — who, of course, I don't know why you don't name it more clearly and forcefully — is what you are allowing pay the payrolls at this time to public officials throughout the nation. That's what you're allowing right now that we can reach the end of the month in pensions. And the fact that the European Central Bank is buying all the public debt that the Kingdom of Spain issues, I think it is something that we must put into effect, because it is the policies of the European People's Party agreed with the European Socialist Party. And that I think it's a good idea to contextualize how we can get out of this crisis with policies that we have certainly shared. [[Applause]] Mr. Knight, you have read about the economic situation of recent years that I frankly contradicted with the data that Professor Puy had in this same forum. Because he says we're in an economic situation, or we've been in an economic situation, because of Spain's worst. We are the autonomous community, as you know, the second autonomous community, which has increased in terms of per capita GDP in the last decade —2009-2019 — the largest. There are other communities that have also lost a lot of population and have had a lower approximation in terms of GDP. But the truth is we've been growing five consecutive years, five consecutive years growing! Despite the economic crisis and despite the cowardice, today we have less unemployment than when I arrived in government in 2009. I think this is worth putting it into value as a social and economic fabric capable of generating this job in Galicia. Today, from the beginning of the legislation -- not to go any further -- there are 58,000 unemployed less and 46,000 more, according to EPA. And, therefore, to say that these indicators are inappropriate indicators... the rate of unemployment in the fourth quarter of the EPA, the known one, was 11.7%, and when we got to the government it was 12.6%. Therefore, Your Honor, saying that the whole economy in Galicia was working badly because, obviously, the Greeks didn't give him the reason. And they didn't give him the reason because the Greeks aren't fools. We're not fools, Mr. Knight. If you were right, I probably wouldn't be making this speech, and I'd play it to Mrs. Pontón. But the truth is that right now, ladies and gentlemen, the Greeks have not given him the reason. That is why it is not appropriate to underestimate the reaction capacity and the recovery capacity of the Greek economy, of the workers in Greece, of the directors, of the companies in Greece and of the public sector's full capacity in Galicia. [[Applause]] We have a unemployment rate below what we found when we got to the government, eleven years ago, despite the crisis of the coward. And with regard to affiliations — which I think is also a good one — we now have 43,800 more members of Social Security in this legislation. And if we compare ourselves to the coward, taking August, this past month, we have 44,000 more members of Social Security in this legislation, despite the state of alarm during March — the second fortnight — April, May and most of June. We have more members of Social Security than when we arrived four years ago in this legislation, in 2016. So that apocalypse about Galicia's economic situation I don't think it's fair, because it's not real. The female employment rate is above the average of Spain, 61% in Galicia, 59% in Spain. And there have never been so many members of Social Security — women affiliated with Social Security — as there were women at the end of last year. So — I insist, Mr. Caballero — that you say you know a lot about economics and that I know nothing about economics, because you still know so much about economics. I just, what I know is to tell. And at the youth unemployment rate again Galicia has a youth unemployment rate of five points below the average in Spain. So this situation is a situation that is worth putting into context. But what is surprising, Mr. Caballero, knowing so much about the economy, is that he comes here to talk about the contraction of GDP and the contraction of employment as a result of the Galician pandemic. But, Mr. Caballero, do you not know that in Galicia, at both quarterly and inter-annual rates, GDP has fallen by 4.2% less than the average of Spain? But did you really not know this data? I'm sure you will. But if it's not worth coming here to say something that's not true! Because in the end, it's important to say things. One may be wrong, no doubt, but, man! if the annual rate of GDP in Spain drops by 22% — 22.1% — and in Galicia by 17.9%, saying that we are managing this pandemic inefficiently is a self-criticism that makes the central government. It's self-criticism and I hope you don't understand in Madrid what you think is a mismanagement of the pandemic. Look, Mr. Knight, we try to manage the economy rigorously, and manage the economy rigorously is to say that today there are half a million Greeks who have not paid taxes, and that are usually Galicia's lowest incomes. In this last legislation they didn't pay taxes 337,000 Greeks when they inherited, which are the lowest incomes in the country; and they didn't pay taxes more than 66,000 Greeks in the countryside, which you practically didn't speak of. And they didn't pay taxes either because almost 3,600 families buy rural housing. So this tax drop, which is to put the money in the pocket of those who give us the money to come to the end of the month — that is, of the citizens who pay their taxes — is a policy that is absolutely favourable to low income and favourable to people with more economic difficulties. That's why I think this apocalypse about the economic situation of recent years and about the current economic situation is not in line with reality. Galicia is the second autonomous community that has increased GDP per capita in the last decade. And with this I can assure you that I felt very satisfied when I presented myself to the elections, knowing that our party could not reach most of them. And the greatest convergence in income with Spain in the historical series, in Galicia's economic history, the greatest convergence with Spain, gave precisely last year with 90.9%. To say that our companies are not powerful and think that our economic policy is to destroy the productive sectors, when it turns out that they have five consecutive years of export record, saying that our economic sectors are not productive, when it turns out that they never sold again, they never competed anymore and were never more efficient in price and quality in the country's economic history, is simply not wanting Galicia as I think we should want all the Members and Members here. [[Applause]] Look, if it seems to you, we're not going to continue deepening this data, but I think it's good to remember that Galicia is the fifth autonomous community that most ERTE recovered in Spain right now and that in our unemployment — our group's spokesperson just said — both in terms of membership and unemployment, we are Spain's third autonomous community with better data from January to August. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I think it's good to value the things that we have achieved among all of us. Because, as you can imagine, this is not just a matter of government doing it right or wrong. This is a question of the Greek society, which I intend to accompany and which I intend, from the Government, to serve. Ladies and gentlemen, we put more than 3,000 million on a plan, and we're probably one of the autonomous communities that first did it, because we keep working during the pandemic every day, of course, and the government has continued to make decisions every day. And the fact that it was the first autonomous community that activated all the public work, when there was some autonomous socialist community that still didn't know that it could be activated, when it turns out, ladies, that we were the only community that put two early payrolls so that people who didn't charge the ERTE could charge, I think they are things — that, by the way, they came out of the social dialogue — that we must put into value. Mr. Knight, I'm going to exercise my powers if I get the confidence of this House, I've been doing it for almost twelve years. It's an honor for me to be able to exercise my powers. And that status of autonomy that you brought to the House is our Statute of autonomy, at least that of the Socialist Party and that of the People's Party. I hope, at least, that it will remain that of the Socialist Party. And that Statute of autonomy, which we, like you, have sworn and promised to defend without any prior artifice and without any condition, is our daily guide of government and political action. We therefore agree with the Spanish Constitution and the Statute of Self-Government as our permanent guide to action, and I invite you, Mr. Caballero, to which we can deepen both in the management of statutory and constitutional competences. [[Applause]] Your Honor, you criticized me and said I didn't exercise my powers, and then I was also criticized for having the courage to talk about the need to change the organic public health law. It would be good if they agreed exactly what I'm doing wrong, whether it's not to exercise my powers or to go beyond them. Look, you know as well as all of us that the state of alarm of the 1981 organic law, which is the one that creates it, is not intended to manage a pandemic. He knows the whole constitutional doctrine, it's not meant to manage a pandemic. There's a deputy who says yes. Well, you know more than anyone else, it's amazing. You know more than the Socialist Party spokespersons in parliaments, or the presidents of the Socialist Party at the Conference of Presidents. There are quite a few who disagree with the alarm status, the alarm status indeterminately, indefinitely. But are you really not going to believe an organic and health legislation to manage a health problem? Are you really going to keep saying no? And it turns out that the alternative proposal is that of seventeen alarm states. Is that the alternative proposal of the great jurists who seem to be accompanying you? Yeah, look, there you are. We call for the full exercise of our powers. And we call for an organic law which enables the State of Self-Government, and consequently the autonomous presidents and the autonomous health authorities to exercise our powers. I don't think it's too much to ask. Requesting and exercising our constitutional and statutory powers with a law that is not a state of alarm, in which the single command decides what to do in all cases, is something, Your Honor, that would ask any president to have a minimum of rigour in the management of public affairs. Look, Your Honor, we have been trying for months now to persuade the Central Government to amend the Organic Law on Public Health and the General Health Law, and also the Law on Dispute-Administrative Jurisdiction, not to be at the forefront of the thousands of contentious trials — including the trial he is on guard at every moment — and to make the decisions that the health authorities point to. The President, at the Rioja Conference of Presidents, said and said again that he did not see that proposal, despite the fact that it was also requested by presidents of the Socialist Party — which you certainly do not know —. Well, the president said he'd take a walk and we'd talk again after summer. What moved after the summer was seventeen alarm states. I mean, in the face of similar epidemiological situations, it's the president of each autonomy who points out or doesn't indicate whether there's a state of alarm. And it may happen that in an autonomous community with an epidemiological situation just as there is one state of alarm and not in the other, and therefore that we cannot travel on highways or on routes of state competition because there is an opinion and a decision in each place depending on the political character or the government itself of the autonomous community. I don't think that's the best time. And what the president has said to us is that, if anyone has a proposal, it's the present. And to fulfill my obligations I said that we are going to present a proposal; therefore, I am responding exclusively to what the President of the Government has invited us to do. Is it wrong that the President of the Government invites us to put forward proposals for amendment of organic law, and it seems to him that, by fulfilling that proposal, we are not strictly managing that state of alarm? One day there will be legislation in Spain to manage pandemics with rigour. And when we have the legislation to handle pandemics with rigour, because we will not have contradictory judgments, nor have the question of opportunity, of opinion, and we will not be subject to the more or less intense motivations that an autonomy can pose to the respective guard judge. That is why, Mr Caballero, I do not try to undermine the authority of the General Courts, but do not forget that an autonomous president is the representative of the State in Galicia and that therefore it is up to me — if I obtain the confidence of this House — to represent the State in the autonomous community. And to make a proposal to amend health legislation in a pandemic is to exercise our powers. That's what I was trying to move him. And I can assure you that I have no more interest than right, because if the Spanish Government succeeds in the pandemic, we will all succeed; and if, on the contrary, we are wrong, we will be wrong much of the population. [[Applause]] You did the same as the spokesperson for the BNG, for a whole amendment on the country's health situation and capacity, on the evil that we manage health. Well, I think this is a classic within your proposals. I thought these kind of questions were no longer part of the speech. Because here comes a representative of the Socialist Party saying that he asks me to take out all the vacant squares of the Galego Health Service, which then comes the spokesman of the BNG to say that thanks to the BNG — that is, thanks to a vote in Congress of Deputies — you will be able to take out all that public job offer, and it turns out that yesterday that this vote is done and the Socialist Party votes against that all the vacant squares in the field of the Galego Health Service and the Spanish health services are taken out of the corner. That's why I say that these kind of questions, Mr. Caballero and Mrs. Pontón, should be treated with a little more seriousness. We've been asking for more than a year, given the deficit situation in many health professions, to let us take all the squares. Why? Because we have complied with all the tax rules in this autonomous community in relation to the rules agreed with Europe, and I believe that autonomous solvent communities have the right to have a number of considerations in relation to their public spending. That's why, Mr. Caballero and Mrs. Pontón, we are surprised that you now become perpetrators of attempting to take all public squares vacant in health care. Look, what you got yesterday the BNG was a vote, one!, on a recommendation commission — not to amend the law, recommendation, Mrs Pontón. Don't say the block has succeeded... the block has achieved nothing. And it would be nice to acknowledge that the Bloc has a vote, made a proposal and was supported by the People's Party at the Congress of Deputies and other political groups. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And thanks to all of these we got one more vote, which was BNG's, and we're all very happy, ladies and gentlemen. But this is the situation. [[Murmurs.]] This is the situation we have right now in Galicia, but in the end... in any case, everything that BNG gets at the Congress of Deputies must be the headline, because for now, that I know, has not achieved anything. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I believe, Mr. Knight and Mrs. Pontón, that they were not fair when they qualified the country's public health. And it wasn't, because when we had better health than the average of Spain's health systems, we shouldn't hide it. Today, the Greeks wait for less — with data on December 31, 2019 — to operate or for consultation; the professionals operate nothing more and nothing less than 40,000 interventions every year than they did in 2009; the Greek patients have more rights and have new treatments, such as hepatitis C, and in oncology and care for stroke; there are more services in the county hospitals and general hospitals than ever; we invested 75 million euros in health technology during the crisis; and they increased beds, and Mr. Knight said they decreased. It turns out they've increased from 7.007 to 7.524, a percentage of 7.4% of the increase. Yes, Mr. Knight, check your data, because it's important. I have to check them too; so if we check the data we can reach agreements. What would happen during the pandemic if we didn't make the new Vigo hospital? What would happen in Vigo if this government, which was absolutely slandered and defamed in relation to the public hospital in Vigo, had no commitment to the city and the health area and we did not establish the new public hospital in Vigo? What would happen, gentlemen, if we didn't extend the emergency service for five in size at the Coruña hospital? What would happen if we didn't fully equip ourselves with new services at Lugo's hospital? What would happen if we didn't double the surface of the Navy hospital? What would happen if we didn't increase the emergencies, the parlor and the plants of the Salnés hospital? What would happen, Your Honor, if health were like you left it and not like the one we have now? That's the question I think is worth answering. [[Applause]] I don't think his vision of health is fair. Eighty-six health centers come in fast, but I can assure you that it is a titanic effort of the Greek society that pays taxes. And we want to finish our 27 left. We're asking for suns, ladies and gentlemen. I don't think it's too much to ask. I'm not going to specify the places where we don't have solars, and we have platforms, with mayors in the head, to ask us to do health centers without transfer and without assigning a single meter to make the health center. That kind of demagogy, ladies and gentlemen, never works well in the polls, and if they do, it's temporary. I don't want to go into that kind of consideration, but I see — as it cannot be otherwise — the Socialist Party and the BNG behind the platforms and mayors who ask the Galician Health Service to make a new hospital, and yet they don't give up a single square meter to make a single health center, as in the residences, in the seven urban residences we're talking about. We're not going into it, but we know perfectly well how it is, and that municipalities are working together to give in solars and that municipalities haven't given in yet. They haven't given up a meter to make a residence yet, and it turns out the problem we have is that Junta doesn't want to do it, just like health centers. I insist, I would like to exclude the health of the political debate over the next four years. We've got the answer. [[Laughter]] They think I'm naive to exclude the health of the political debate. [[Murmurs.]] I believe that a president who asks for a consensus on health for the next four years is not naive, he is someone who does his duty. [[Murmurs.]] And that's why, ladies and gentlemen, since you're going to use health as a political weapon, because you're still working with those weapons that we're going to continue to increase our staffing -- 3,587 more professionals, from 36,256 to 39,843. [[Murmurs.]] Those are the payrolls, the rest are the rhymes. [[Applause]] These are the payrolls that are paid every month, gentlemen, not to mention the more than 1,500 people we have hired since 1 March, 14 days before the alarm status is declared. We have better health than ever, better health than when the Bipartite managed it. In primary care, in emergencies and hospitalizations, it's better rated than the average of the national health system. We have the smallest waiting list in our history. And I don't say it, the Ministry of Health says it when I come up with the waiting list data. And we took a 13% budget increase in health -- not counting this year's spending -- in relation to the year 2008, when it was the last budget of the Bipartite. And that's why I don't know exactly what we're being accused of. Do you, ladies and gentlemen accuse us of not betting on public health? Is there any government that would bet more on public health? Is there any government that has made more hospitals, more health centers, public health, and no longer the economic situation in which we live? There are 1,137 more nurses, 117 more family doctors, and we hire all those who want to work in Galicia — I tell everyone. So when we have more than 37% of our surgeries, we treat public health like this, I don't think it's reasonable. Of course, I feel very proud of public health and will continue to defend it throughout the legislation. I said it on Tuesday and I'll ratify it today. They also spoke of Mrs. Pontón and Mr. Knight of the elderly residences. We're in favour of talking about senior residences, and whatever you want. But, Mr. Caballero, you want to set up a research commission on senior residences. Could you ask your Government to tell you how many deceased there are in Spain in the senior residences? Who do you want to investigate? To the central government or to a government that gives on time all the data that is produced each day? Why don't we know the number of people killed by the vault in Spain? Why don't we know the number of deaths in senior residences in Spain when autonomous communities are obliged to give them, and we give them textually every 24 hours? Is that what you want to investigate? Look, with all due respect, what the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party calls for in an autonomous parliament to make a commission on the dead by the vault is something, Mr. Knight, in which there must of course be a great deal of boldness. And I'm not telling you you don't have it. On the contrary, I am surprised at the boldness he has. But I don't really think we should get into that kind of consideration. Of course, we're going into the debate with the proposals we made in the residences, and we're going to keep working on these residences, of course we are. There are some honourable Members who are simply surprised to say that we have 25,000 residents and that our mortality rate is "x"; and that the set of residents in Spain is "x" and the mortality rate in Spain is "x". What's the matter, that every time you talk about Spain this is a problem for the spokesperson of the Galician Nationalist Block? Every time we just think about what we're doing right, what we're doing wrong and what we're doing wrong, we're manipulating and it's happening? No, they won't teach me to respect the biggest, because this party respects the greatest and will always respect them. And it will never make political motivations for the popular Party of Galicia to reach most. Looks like it's because the big ones vote it. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to look after the older ones and I think it's not reasonable to make this kind of consideration. [[Applause]] Social policy and educational policy. Let's keep working, Mr. Knight and Mrs. Pontón, don't you have any doubts. But to say that I shield myself behind Minister Cell on educational subjects...! But doesn't it seem reasonable to you that in a federal state...? Federal, the state of autonomy... isn't it a federal state? [[Murmurs.]] [[Laughter]] Ah! [[Laughter]] I know that what you like is the multinational state... because we have no problem saying that the state of autonomy in Spain is very similar... well, no, it has a lot more competence than the German federal state. [[Murmurs.]] You have no doubt. [[Murmurs.]] The Germans, of course, do not have to share the country. To you, yes; to us, no. So to say that the school course in a nation, Spain, should not start with similar criteria and that we shield ourselves in the Government of Spain to try to deal with similar criteria, is that that's something incomprehensible. The question is: why does the Ministry of Education exist? For what is the Ministry of Universities?, for what is the Ministry of Science? If you don't have any competition, I suggest you three less, and yet you have 19 left. Really, ladies and gentlemen, it's something very surprising what we're doing. [[Applause]] [[Applause continues.]] Look, the socialist presidents and the popular presidents at the Conference of Presidents have been asking for minimum agreements since May to see how we could provide security for all families, provide security for teachers and try to rebuild our education system. Since May! The president stayed in May to hold a single conference on educational subjects. It's never done! And we managed to finally meet the ministers of the branch with the advisers of the autonomous communities on 27 and 28 August. And we have reached an agreement — which, by the way, tomorrow at the Conference of Presidents wants the Government to make a statement in favour of the agreement. Well, everything Mr. Caballero and Mrs. Ana Pontón asked me here is not in the deal. What is it, that you don't even agree with the agreement they propose and want to sign tomorrow? It's a very surprising thing! [[Laughter]] To know exactly what the proposal is, we should put it into practice. [[Applause]] Look, come here and say that we have 90 or 93 million for education, and that's very important. I don't hide from you that 90 million for this quarter, of course, is an important amount. But, Mr. Caballero and Mrs. Pontón, can we agree to a fund covered by the State budget for the year 2021? Because payrolls are to be paid twelve months next year, both teachers and teachers, as well as those of the educational community as a whole — and of course those of the health community as a whole. And that's why, Mr. Caballero and Mrs. Pontón, as long as we have our deliveries to the central government account, we'll see if those central government contributions come in to pay the payrolls of the staff we have now. Let's not demagogy in a country severely punished with a historical economic recession, an increase in historical unemployment, a decrease in membership of historical social security. And let's not demagogy in a country where we don't know how we're going to end this year and how we're going to start next year. We will comply with the educational protocol because we are committed to the educational community and we have been the first autonomous community in transposing the educational protocol with which we commit ourselves to the Government of Spain — the Socialist Government, the Government of Podemos and its partners, including the BNG. So I don't think we're responsible for fulfilling a protocol we've previously agreed on. But about the 90 million, ladies and gentlemen, why did Galicia remove another 25% of what was on the educational subject? It's up to us, according to the funding system, 36 million more, and we're out of 36 million euros. Why? Because now it turns out that the central government's proposal for education costs only takes into account people living in an autonomous community between the ages of 0 and 24, nothing more. I mean, school doesn't have to take anyone, that the number of schools in Galicia versus those in concentrated cities doesn't matter, that the number of decentralized dining rooms we have in the country doesn't matter. And the Socialist Party comes here to say that these 90 million are a great social advance. Look, Mr. Knight, we don't agree with the distribution. We don't agree because it's been so interesting that I don't know who; of course, not with the objective criteria we've agreed — either bad or bad — for a decade. That's why we're gonna keep working on education. We'll have every interest in the world to succeed, I can assure you. And we're going to continue working with the educational community, with the teachers, with the teachers, with all the staff. What we're doing to them is PCR, and we're doing tests on them in an orderly and coherent manner. And we'll continue to work on a plan of outbreaks, which should be reasonable at the state level. It would be good to deal with a state-level plan of outbreaks in the educational field, because this would give us security and give us reliability so that each autonomous community does not do what it wants. Is this really to violate my competences, to ask that the plans to leave a class without effect have the same health criteria in Castela-León, Madrid, Barcelona, Seville or Vigo? I think it would be quite reasonable for these kinds of issues in an autonomous state, in a federal state. I think so. And that's why we're going to keep thinking about it. Look, with all due respect, Mr. Caballero — and end of it — I don't think you should speak with so much emphasis that we are very bad about poverty, because we are better than the average of Spain. I understand that you don't care either, but we live in a country that has the worst economic behaviour in the European Union. And we live in a country that's going to have a percentage of unemployment that I don't dare or affirm. So when we measure ourselves in this way and it turns out that we doubled -- we multiplied by two -- the disability assumptions, when the risk was 22 million euros in 2009 and we're at 67.7 million euros, almost triple in 2020, when people were raised at risk and they charge 1,600 families, I don't think that's a smaller issue. And the schedule we've agreed with social agents in the field of poverty is something that should make us feel medium enough satisfied to continue working. Poverty rates in Galicia believe better data, both on the whole and in the population at risk of economic poverty and in the lack of severe material — in all data. I think that's important and I don't think it's a minor issue. So we should talk to a little bit more prudent about poverty. We certainly have pockets of poverty, pockets of inequality, in which we will continue to work. I have every commitment to the central government to speak seriously about Alcoa. Too bad we finally talked about Alcoa seriously! As bad as first we don't give any energy capacity to hyper-intensive companies and when they close it it turns out we take them seriously! Well, I was taking them seriously before I close them, and I take them seriously so that they don't close and I will help the President of the Government of Spain to any solution that gives us guarantee of employment in the Navy they shine and in that primary aluminium factory that much needs Galicia. I'll keep working with the President of the Government. [[Applause]] I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that I can give positive information, which I don't have right now, but if we can get a new buyer to take over the factory, they won't have the opposite. We're working hard. Now yes, after the elections we started working hard, less bad! And the hyper-electrointensive status, the one you said in every rally, turns out that there isn't any. And less importantly, Your Honor, that we now take seriously that Spain needs a primary aluminium factory, because our production is a third of the demand and because, besides, closing the primary aluminium in Spain would be an economic, industrial and social nonsense. About The Bridges and Meirama, Mrs. Pontón - you, who has so much influence in the central government - and Mr. Caballero - you, who represents here in the central government - do you find that the problem of the Bridges and Meirama is a problem of the Galician Union? Do you really think you can charge an autonomic president with the decision to close the thermal power stations in Spain as a whole, without leaving one? The only battery that Spain would have would be the thermal power station of the Bridges, the only one. In Germany there are more than 80. How is that possible? What is it, that the German Government is less green than the Spanish Government? We're not against that we're gradually replacing that type of power plant with alternative energies, which we're against is the sudden closure of Spain's most powerful thermal power plant, which has made an investment of more than 200 million euros. We even modified the layout of an autonomous road to expand the company and now it turns out that it has to be closed. What would happen, Mrs Pontón, if the Central Government, the Alcoa closure, the Meirama closure and the bridge closure, were the People's Party? What would happen, Mrs. Pontón? [[Applause]] Let's go, Mr. Caballero, talk to the Galaga Federation of Municipalities and Provinces. I understand that this will be the interlocutor, because to say here that we have to talk to seven municipalities and leave the remaining 306 beside me does not seem very appropriate. Of course, with the former president of the Galaga Federation of Municipalities and Provinces - an invicto mayor, by the way, for a long time, the mayor of the Barco - we have reached thousands of agreements. Yeah, yeah... yeah, yeah, yeah. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I have no doubt, both the president and the vice president, with the mayor of the boat and the mayor of Carballo, we have reached hundreds of agreements, and I would also like to come to the new directive. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's see if it's left or if it's possible. We haven't changed, I hope. So I don't think it's very reasonable to talk about that we don't want to talk about. We have an excellent relationship with most mayors. Why? Because I'm at your disposal. You can ask and you'll be told yes; others will tell you no... well, but you may ask. With the nationalist mayor of Pontevedra -- by putting on a data, as they only have one!, it's not going to be that the Socialist Party is angry -- I've reached agreements. I don't know why you're laughing, I don't know if you're laughing at the mayor or me, but... I don't think it's very reasonable. [[Laughter]] Why can't you reach agreements with a nationalist mayor? But if what we want and what we seek is just the deal! Disagreement is the easy, the deal is the hard, and that's why we're here trying to talk about agreements and not start, ladies and gentlemen, asking and making such a destructive criticism of the situation and the management of the vault in Galicia, Mrs. Pontón. I'm surprised. I'm surprised his first part of the exhibition. What you said about the management of the coward I don't think we deserve; the professionals don't deserve it; the clinical committee doesn't deserve it; and of course, it doesn't deserve it. Look, it turns out that we were the first autonomous community to overcome the state of alarm in Spain, it turns out that the Government spokesperson on themes of the cave pandemic pointed out that Galicia was an autonomous community in which it was strictly handled and that that is why it came out of the first state of alarm, and now it turns out that the German nationalism, instead of feeling proud of what we did as a society, comes here simply disqualifying one of the best jobs the health professionals have done in recent months. It's a very surprising thing, Mrs. Pontón, I didn't expect it from you, because I think we've been talking about the coward for a long time, every Sunday, until I realized that talking to the leaders of the Socialist Party and the BNG was worth criticizing on Mondays or even denying these conversations and meetings. That's why I'm very surprised to hear that kind of considerations why we close the Navy and now we don't close... but do you really question the criteria of the Galician Health Service Clinical Committee? Do you know more about epidemiology, infections, the unity of critics or the transfer of viruses than the 35 professionals in the Galician Health Service? We do what professionals do to us, Mrs. Pontón. We did it, we did it, and we will continue to do it with you or without you. [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón, on the matter of the Navy, we closed the circulation there because we had just come out of a confinement and the percentage of prevalence at 7 and 14 days at that time was spectacular. Now we're at a totally different moment. Probably between 700,000 and 800,000 people came in and went out to Galicia. We're out of confinement from a date of June, and hence the outbreaks and the incidence we knew they were now going to be much higher than they could be at that time. We closed the Navy with responsibility in the electoral period, and that responsibility, unfortunately, was not addressed by the Socialist Party or by the BNG or its representatives in the Navy, which I deeply regret. So when they come here to talk about why we closed the Navy, Mrs. Pontón, I'm not going to remind you of what you were saying, what you were saying to me during the election campaign in connection with the Navy and my health decisions. So it seems to me, Mrs Pontón, that if you want to talk about Galicia we really assume that the clinical committee's approach is the criterion that will be endorsed by Parliament, because that is the greatest favor we can do for the safety and security of citizens. I don't think it says a BNG spokesman that in Galicia there's no outbreak protocol, when it turns out it's been approved since April, it's something to say to the opposition boss. We're serious, Mrs. Pontón, at least we're going to try; we're serious about this. Question the evidence, the trackers, question the public health services, preventive medicine and the work of the family doctors... "No, there are no trackers here..." But what do we say? But if the data is the data. See, in relation to the tests, the number of tests carried out in Galicia — data from the Ministry of Health — CRP, rapid tests and other tests performed, is of a value of 215 per thousand inhabitants; in Spain, 195. But if we are the autonomous community with more initiative on the subject of tests! If we have been absolutely valued by the health authorities of other autonomous communities and the Spanish ensemble! But like we don't do tests? Like there's no trackers? Is it that a family doctor who has a patient who gives positive evidence in clinical history doesn't include that positive and automatic data? But what are you laughing at? [[Murmurs.]] What are you laughing at? Don't I know if you know what a treasure tracker consists of? It gives me the feeling that you're taking the joke thinking this is a matter of timing a government that hasn't taken possession yet. [[Murmurs.]] It's a very surprising thing, but at last. Look, with all due respect, arguing now why the Navy is closed and why we are now acting in the Coruña, Santiago, Ourense or Lugo as we are acting is something very surprising. The General Directorate for Public Health, the General Directorate for Health Care, the seven health areas, all territorial health offices, primary care professionals, specialists in preventive medicine, epidemiology, microbiology, the staff of the Contact Monitoring Centre -- that there are tens of people behind a phone -- everyone, including the Autonomic Police, has been presented at the homes of people who had to be quarantined to check whether they were or not. It's 6,152 professionals who are participating in the tracking system. I don't understand exactly what we're being accused of. It's just because it's about creating uncertainty about the things that are working with the utmost rigour in Galicia. That's to want Galicia; and I don't share in disparaging what Galicia does. [[Applause]] Leading the country is defending the country. And defending the country in a proportionate way, criticizing what needs to be criticized, improving what needs to be improved and valuing what needs to be valued is quite reasonable. Mrs. Pontón, your beginning of speech by saying and talking about the dead in the residences, delegating the performances in the residences of the thousands of professionals who have been working on them is something I cannot share and that hurts me especially, because I think it's absolutely unfair; I repeat, absolutely unfair. Look, we have more evidence than the others, we have a lower mortality than the others, we are Spain's second autonomous community with fewer people hospitalized by the vault today -- the second with less hospitalized from Spain! -- and says we don't track properly... but exactly how will the others do it? If we're the second community with fewer hospitalized people, how will the others do? How will they do it where nationalists rule -- which they seem to have the patent to want the country --? So I don't know, but I was very surprised, Mrs. Pontón, because I thought we weren't going to discuss this matter. I assure you that we are doing so with absolute rigour, you have no doubt. Mrs. Pontón, you spoke out against the education protocol before it was approved. It's an obvious way to make a constructive opposition. And do you — I ask you — favor a call for conflict in education before you even know the protocol? So you really care about education, do you really care about protocol, or do you have other interests? That's the question I think the Greeks have to ask. How can it be possible to convene a conflict applauded since the BNG — I don't know whether or not it is instigated — before we have known the protocol approved throughout Spain and before that protocol is transposed into the first autonomous community that has done so throughout Spain? How is it possible to convene an educational conflict? But do parents really deserve this? Do supermarket workers, as you meant, emergency service workers, workers of entities that were open during the alarm state, really deserve this kind of approach? Why didn't you strike during the alarm state? Probably because they couldn't, because it was illegal. With all due respect, before there were no masks or we could protect the workers from essential services, and now coming here with an educational conflict before sitting down and knowing the protocol in a strict sense is an irresponsibility which, of course, I come here to denounce in the name of most of the Greeks. [[Applause]] Look, about the senior residences. I have no objection to talking about senior residences, I've been talking since March, of course, and we're going to keep talking. How are we not going to keep talking if there are 25,000 Greeks in them? But, of course, it turns out that we're talking about senior residences and we're finding that the percentage of people infected in senior residences in Galicia is the best in Europe -- because talking about Spain as well doesn't seem right -- It turns out that we are second in hospitalization and we have in critical patients 4.07 patients per million inhabitants and in Spain, 18.59. There's no parameter, Your Honor, that should make us think that everything we do is wrong, because it's not so and because it's not fair to say it. Look, we have to reflect on the residences of the third age, Mrs. Pontón, no doubt. And reflection must also be quiet and realistic. Be sure that the Galician Union will go against any kind of residence that doesn't meet the parameters and that we will start previous information, as we have already done when we consider that they didn't meet the parameters, you have no doubt. But the reflection of the future, what is it, to continue to improve residences or to make politics with residences? We always act with absolute force. On 13 March we adopted the protocol of action in the residences of the third age, ten days before there was a single protocol in Spain. We were the first autonomous community to have residency throughout Spain - the first! - and we were the first autonomous community to have stated that all residences of the third age had to be protected by the Autonomous Community; the first of Spain. But you, who wants the country so much, why don't you value what the country did? Do you think it's easy to manage this kind of considerations? On 25 March we said the first integrated residences, before any other autonomous community, and on 30 March we anticipated the intervention of the residences - it was the first decision in the intervention of a residence - And now, when a brooch appears in the Incio, we act immediately. I'm sorry to read a paragraph from the president of the Spanish Society of Xeriatrics and Xerontology: "The recovery itself does not imply inadequate management of the escalation or control of the infection, it is the late response to these reviews that should be avoided and minimized to the maximum." And this is what we're doing, gentlemen. So let's not demagogy with this kind of considerations. Now it turns out that concerted or private residences are stigmatized residences, according to BNG. What happens?, that there is no virus in private homes?, that there is no virus in companies?, that there was not even infection in the Moncloa Palace? Your Honor, should all this be publicized? Are you really serious about a topic as complex as this, trying to say that we do business with residences and that we have some interest in residences? But, Mrs. Pontón! Leading the opposition has many needs of concept height, documentation and information. He doesn't think it's easy. No, no... Allah, go on! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Of course, today's the truth is I don't think most of the Greeks would have made a very good note of him. BNG claims that all social services have to be public and it turns out that when we go to see what BNG does when it governs, it turns out that it's not. [[Laughter]] The residence of Ribadeo's third age, owned by the Deputy of Lugo and the Town Hall of Ribadeo, is of private management... - I hope you don't open a file, Your Honor. [[Murmurs.]] And then, when we see the home support services that the municipalities have in Galicia, we realize that 46% of the nationalist municipalities have private management in the home help service and it turns out that with the mayors of the PP, 29%. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But, Mrs. Pontón, do you really think we're fools too? No, no, no, no. You can handle strictly, and if there is no rigour in management, there are sanctioning, disabling, closing and closing files. But entering this kind of consideration now is an inaccurate consideration. [[Applause]] Your Honor, you have brought here a lot of promises that I am charged with: I promise, I promise, I promise... I can assure you, Your Honor, that I promise not to lie as much as you do in that paragraph of your speech. No, no, I assure you. [[Laughter]] That doesn't go beyond a minute's serious discussion. But besides, there's something surprising, do you think that the Greeks believe all the lies and that the Greeks don't value their truths? An investment speech doesn't think it's the most timely place to say that all the Greeks are passive subjects of the lie and not recipients of the truth. Look, Mrs. Pontón, everything I said is in the Diary of Sessions, just like everything you said, and it's good. You've been in this Parliament longer than I am. I have no objection to studying the Diary of Sessions, Mrs Pontón's speeches and Mr Núñez Feijóo's speeches and to see, Your Honor, what is the rigor of the exhibitions. But you make me an agreement, just like the leader of the Socialist Party, and as we are willing, it turns out that, by introducing it into the debate, we copy the proposal agreement. Because it's yours, no problem! Do you want the authorship of the reactivation agreement proposal? No problem, Mrs. Pontón. Look, we think there must be a parliamentary committee, because this Parliament represents the majority; there must be a commission to which social dialogue should not be stolen, because they are democratic agents who are voted in business ballots, as in the citizens' polls; of course, also a representation of entrepreneurs and a representation for us - that we will keep it - in an expert committee. I think you can work with this tool. Of course, we thought so. It would be good, Mrs. Pontón, if you have any influence, to tell the IGC that it is included in the social dialogue, because this is about wanting to compromise, but it turns out that the nationalist power station does not agree at all, it doesn't even sit down, for man! It's a little complex. [[Applause]] Maybe you represent the nationalist power station. Well, at least in Parliament you'll sit, that'll be fine, but we invite you. There's UXT, there's the Workers' Commission... we invite the IGC to feel the social dialogue we're going to start immediately. Look, we're in favour, Mrs. Pontón, of talking to BNG, of course. And there are very important things we've agreed to with BNG. I know that sometimes it bothers me to remember these things, I won't remember them. I'm just saying that with other BNG spokespersons, very important things have been agreed on in the field of savings funds, in the field of health, in the field of financing. We've done important things, it'd be a good deal now. But, first of all, to agree on a social agenda, that we are those of the cuts... Mrs. Pontón, do you really want a pact with us? How about I tell you that you don't believe in the country's public health at all and I propose a pact? I just proposed a health pact and they laugh. If that's the problem, Your Honor! And one thing is talking and another thing is doing. Why can't we get the sanity out of the public debate? Why? Well, if it's 44% of our resources, it's covering the whole society and if we're in full pandemic, why can't we? So much is asking that the basic essential service this year, year and half or two years be an object of covenant, which is the country's public health, and not to go against the basic principles of the country's health, which is to doubt its quality? Now he says that the BNG is in favour of massive public job offers in health care, when we've been asking for that a year and a half ago. Your Honor, you say BNG has already succeeded in Madrid. But, Mrs. Pontón, do you really think this is serious? With all due respect, talk now about educational issues when the only thing that seems to matter here is the conflict in education or digitization... there you are! Look, when we got to Galicia, 30% of the territory didn't even have the Internet, it didn't exist. Today it is covered in 28% of the country, and 2% by measures such as 5G and others. We've reduced the digital divide of the Atlantic facade of inside Galicia by 30 points. For the first time in our history, all the schools in Galicia are covered on the Internet with 100 megas, all of them. That's historical. How come we haven't advanced on the digital divide? 99% of public centers have a minimum of 100 mega internet coverage and we have over 120,000 students with digital classes. Of course we must continue to move forward. Why do you tell us that the subjects of dependence, social issues, we don't consider them appropriate, nor do we work on it, when there's four times more attention on the dependence now than when we get to the government, in economic crisis all these years? In the bipartite, 14,000; today, 62,000 every month. The home help service is multiplied by 16, and the old squares. How many residences have you made, because I don't remember? What I do know is that we've raised 44% of the major residential squares, and the total number of day centers, Alzheimer's, disability squares, 55%. Look, it would be good if you, who have influence in the central government, in the central government, just funded 24% of the unit to 50 percent. Now that we're in the most social government in our history, because it would be good if they were to pass, because Galicia is supporting 76% of dependent funding and central government 24%. The whole social agenda is therefore available. I don't have that bad concept of country education in dining rooms. In the dining rooms there are 10% more squares than when we arrived, 10% more squares. On the subject of masks, Your Honor, from the beginning I applied for reduced VAT. The Madrid governments said no, and the mask has an IV of 21%. We would already solve much of the problems of the Greek families in the educational field and in all areas. In economic reactivation, we are in favour, Mrs Pontón, of trying to find solutions and of seeking greater business deployments. We would like you to help us, that every time we start mining we don't have a problem; that every time we set up a wind farm we don't have a problem; that every time we try to diversify the naval sector we don't have a discussion; that every time we look for the opening up of our natural resources, fulfilling environmental regulations, they're not subject to ongoing and constant discussion and platform object, because Europe and Spain are not for this, ladies and gentlemen, they're to put all their resources in accordance with environmental laws to the disposal of jobs and economic activity. Your Honor, why don't you admit that there's never been any greater innovation effort than now, 591 million euros, 3.5 percent more than when we started legislation? In recent years in innovation Galicia has grown by 19% and Spain by 12%. I think that's what we need to value. Why don't we say there are 5,000 researchers in Galicia who work every day in the country -- 5,000 -- and why don't we accept that we can retain or attract more than 1,500 professionals in the Talent program? Why don't we show that all the copper studies that were selected by the Carlos III Institute and they didn't get funding are funded by the Autonomous Community? Why do we have such a black, pessimistic and so damaged view of our country? Why, Mrs. Pontón? If we both want the country, why don't we give the country what's right, why don't we accept what we do right, and why don't we improve what we haven't been able to improve yet? If we are the first car producer in Spain right now, if we get the fourth shift in PSA-Peugeot-Citroën, despite the coward, I suppose it will be, among other things, because we make a policy of encouraging quite reasonable training. And now it turns out that we've just been confiscated 100 million euros in the budget for active employment policies and I haven't listened to you. What if instead of your partner, the Socialist Party, were the People's Party in the country's government and in a full economic and employment crisis, our active employment policies are going back 100 million euros? I trust the Minister of Labour will rejoin them, but they are in the Official Journal of Galicia the orders we call and we cannot solve because they confiscate us 100 million euros. I didn't hear any nationalists talk about it. "Not that, because everything that is disturbing or diminishing the capabilities of a government of another political sign doesn't interest us." Yes, to me, because I think that's what the Greeks are entitled to know. Look, Mrs. Pontón, with all due respect, I don't know exactly what I'm accused of. I'm accused of failing to comply with the Statute. But, Mrs. Pontón, if I believe so much more in the Statute than you! How can I not comply with the Statute? I keep the Statute 24 hours a day. I don't know why they laugh. [[Laughter]] This is the first time BNG hasn't talked about the Atlantic highway, the first time since I remember the big debates. [[Laughter]] Why? Because he had already solved it when he supported Mr. Sánchez, and it turns out that two years later nothing is known about the Atlantic highway. [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón, I'm telling you with great interest. Look, I've put forward BNG's proposals: the Welsh public bank, the economic concert, the electricity tariff and Galician nation. Yeah, but that's really the usual BNG, the BNG since it was founded. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Laughter]] But do we really not evolve anything, do you really go against all the teachers of Public Fairy in Galicia, who say that the economic concert would be a nonsense to the country? And now you turn out to be here to represent the country! But what do you want? Now you're going to talk about corporate tax just when you don't come up with it. It's amazing! We're going to order company tax now that it doesn't go up! No, no, look, we're going to be serious, if you want. From the municipal remnants, no word from the BNG. No, no, no, no. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, no. [[Murmurs.]] Do you imagine we were somewhere else? Well, we have applied for competences for the country to the Government of Mr. Zapatero, the Government of Mr. Sánchez and Mr. Rajoy's Government. [[Laughter]] We haven't changed, even being a public works adviser, I raised the subject of the highway. That's right, they just approved a bridge in Seville -- 100 million euros -- without pay, and the Rande bridge, pay for 20 years. Then he ruled the Socialist Party with the support of the BNG. It's okay, it's okay! And we, to ask for this, do demagogy. Well, that'll be it. As far as moderation is concerned, Mrs. Pontón, what you're here to talk about in moderation is, of course, something that I take advantage of to congratulate you, and which also fills me with possible optimism. Moderation, yes, Mrs. Pontón. Moderation! When the BNG makes a proper response to the things we do well and criticize the things we hurt, we'll enter a moderation scenario. But linguistic moderation is not nationalistic moderation, Mrs. Pontón. Linguistic moderation is the moderation of cordial and harmonic bilingualism. Look at how a brilliant member of the BNG knows perfectly what our language policy is. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] What are we worried about the use of German in young people? Of course! But that young people know more Greek than when we were young, of course! Oh, lie? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, what's more, if the BNG totals are always right! What's the matter? Why are we going to waste our time? I'm sure they didn't live in my village, but anyway, you live in other places. We will continue to work in moderation, in favour of Mrs Pontón; in favour of a decentralized autonomous state, in favour of developing the Statute of Self-Government, in favour of respecting the Spanish Constitution, in favour of respecting the parliamentary monarchy. That's all moderation. Ah!, rin? [[Laughter]] Well... respecting the parliamentary monarchy is not moderation, according to nationalists. We think so, but if it turns out now that BNG is talking about the parliamentary monarchy, because, of course, there is a problem of moderation that should continue to focus on the next sessions we have in Parliament. Look, ladies and gentlemen, with all due respect, I speak with all vehemence because I believe in this, because I have devoted my life to this and you will understand that assigning a life to something you don't believe would make no sense. And in the same way that Mrs. Pontón believes what she says and Mr. Caballero too, those we are here, Mr. Puy and I, who are the ones we have had the opportunity to speak on behalf of the others, we believe in this, and as we believe in this, we are going to work; that's what I propose to them. It would be nice to come to an agreement, because if we didn't get to an agreement now - Mrs. Pontón said - at first we won't get to it, sure, throughout the legislation. If during a pandemic we're unable to reach agreements, we're regular. We, at the Conference of Presidents, have reached agreements without documentation; imagine whether we have the capacity to reach agreements. Because I don't see Mr. Sánchez as president of the Socialist Party. No, no, he's the president of my government to me. Well, how many agreements have we reached at the Conference of Presidents without documentation? But don't you talk to your colleagues of the Socialist Party in other communities? We're summoned without documentation! That's right, in the first one we had documentation was yesterday's to sign a poster in favor of the start of the education course according to the appropriate protocol. I will not say that the leader of the Socialist Party in Galicia was against at the Conference of Presidents, because if not, you will understand that you would leave him in the wrong place, Mr. Caballero. So what the protocol is about is what we have to do, and what it does not, we should try - as it was not the subject of consensus - to postpone it to further improve the country. Look, the Greeks, ladies and gentlemen, were very clear in the polls, extended support for this project, and Galicia has an autonomous government with the support of most citizens. I have the honour to have been a candidate, and to be a candidate, supported by a great party, the party that won the elections. This party has the honour to collect more votes than all political forces with or without parliamentary representation in these last elections, but, of course, I will not try to be president of this great majority, which would be perfectly legitimate. I'm going to try, if I get the confidence of this House, to be the president of all the Greeks and all the Greeks. [[Applause]] Those Greeks who trusted us and trusted me as a candidate for the presidency of the Union have the assurance that I will fulfill my word. And to those Greeks who trusted other parties and that on the election night they weren't so happy what I can assure them is that they're calm, because, if I'm invested president, I'm going to act as president of all the Greeks and all the Greeks, and I'm going to rule accordingly. So the elections are already over, and if this Parliament gives me confidence, the Greeks will not have a candidate nor will they have a party but will have a president and a government. No more slogans, no more promises, no more candidates, and no more parties that matter to us, at least me. If I take the presidency of the Union, my party will remain the same: Galicia. And that's why, ladies and gentlemen, I'm left with the positive part or the purpose of your speech. You are free, no doubt, as they have done in most of their interventions, to continue to criticize what a government has done that has just been validated by the polls, to continue to criticize what we have done during the last legislate and the previous legislates. I propose to them -- that insist on the evil that we did things after the elections doesn't seem very constructive -- that instead of trying to win the elections again -- that they don't play until 2024 -- that we're going to win together the future, each with the plot that you can and the proposals you consider appropriate. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to congratulating you on your election outcome, we are probably not going to agree when we talk about Spain, and we are not going to agree because you don't like Spain, and you sometimes feel like you don't care what happens in Spain. To us, because we are Spanish, because our nation is Spain, because we believe in the Spanish Constitution, the Statute of Self-Government, and we will defend the Constitution and the Statute of Self-Government throughout the legislation. But, except for that, we can talk about a lot of things. [[Applause]] And surely, ladies and gentlemen of the Spanish-PSdEG Socialist Workers Party, which we will not agree to say that the central government is the best government possible and that all that is said in Moncloa is the oracle we have to fulfill. But I think we can agree on spaces of understanding. And there's a space so large that it's called Galicia, in which I'm sure there are many corners to agree, and therefore in the same way that they'll ask me not to go against most of the Greeks who voted, I'm also perfectly aware that you won't agree with questions that we propose. But why not really look for concrete agreements? If it's about strengthening unity and coexistence, I can assure you that I'm not going to have any prejudice. If it is the case that we can fight more strongly against the health, economic and social consequences of this crisis, my government will not establish any kind of health cord. And, of course, I will no longer veto anyone; I will not veto anyone who wants to work for Galicia, whether nationalist or socialist. I will never ask you to renounce your principles or your way of understanding Galicia, and I am convinced that you will never ask me to renounce the principles that we represent. I daren't even ask them for their vote, I daren't even ask them for their abstention -- which I think would be a very intelligent decision -- but, of course, what if I'm going to ask them is help, because what we've got ahead needs everyone's help. And before this last shift of the afternoon, I come to ask for help, because I've been managing the country for a long time, and I've never experienced a situation like Spain and the parts that make it up, like this nationality called Galicia. That's why I come to ask for help, because I think we'll need help, and I come to ask for help because the Greeks need it, and of course because the Greeks and the Greeks deserve it. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u19	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Feijó. We suspended the session until 5:00 p.m., 17 p.m. [[The session is suspended at one and thirty-five minutes in the afternoon and resumed at five and five minutes in the afternoon.]] Proposal for a candidate for the Presidency of the Galician Union, presentation of its Government and election programme, in accordance with Article 15.3 of the Galician Autonomy Statute.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u20	Good afternoon. We resumed the session. I would first like to inform all the Members who have been sent a letter to the Bureau of Parliament, which the Bureau qualified and approved, on the request of Mrs González Albert's delegation of vote, because she is unable to attend this meeting, in Mrs Pontón, the spokesperson for the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block in Wales. So we held the session. It is now a 10-minute round for each parliamentary group; all this is also in accordance with Article 136.5 of the Rules of Procedure. After this debate, the candidate for the presidency will be answered in the last round by a vote. At the moment, I can't tell you what time the vote is, but I'll notify you in enough time when the debate is over. The vote will be made public and the first call will be made in alphabetical order, starting with the honourable Member whose name will be drawn to luck, except for the members of the Government in office and the members of the Bureau of the House, who will vote at the end. Your lordships will answer from the scene with a "yes", "no" or "abstention." The candidate will be elected if he wins the votes of the absolute majority. This choice shall involve the approval of the Government programme in accordance with Article 136 of the Regulation. So now we start with the round of parliamentary groups. First of all, you have the floor, for a time of ten minutes, the spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Caballero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Galicia is a great country. A country of working people; of citizens engaged, with values, with ideas; of people who throughout history have shown how commitment to their good does takes forward the whole of our community. We are living moments of enormous complexity, as in the world, in the face of a crisis of this health, economic and social dimension. And that's why we want to tell the candidate for the Chair of the Board that he has the tendon hand of the PSdeG-PSOE since the opposition; from a critical opposition that he's going to work to help the Government of the Council of Galicia to give the best answers at the most complex times. That is why we argue that it has to be the legislation on the protection of individuals and that progress must be made in these four major agreements: that of social priority, that of economic recovery, that of democratic regeneration and institutional quality and that of self-government. On that line we're going to work. And we're going to work on the economics line, Mr. Feijóo, because when you give the real data you point out that someone is talking about an apocalypse. And some of us give him real data, pretty good data. You've come to suggest here that we leave the 2009 crisis where the Government of Spain left us and now that we are left with another government. Did you not find out that there was a great recession and now a great pandemic? That masculinism of looking for those responsible for a particular line is wrong and citizenship doesn't understand it. Because even the People's Party of Europe is changing its ideas, and it seems that you, the People's Party of Galicia, do not want to resign to see that there is another option to the politics of orthodoxy and that that policy of austerity that you have defended — and still seems, defending — has to go through a crisis of this magnitude. You want to point out that per capita GDP has grown significantly over these ten years. I'm going to set a very clear example for you that the Greeks and the Greeks who follow us from Galician TV can understand very clearly: a Greek family with two parents — a father and a mother — and two children have a certain level of income per capita. If one of the children leaves Galicia, the per capita income rises, but the country goes worse and that family is in a more complex situation. That's the reality of the facts. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I know, Mr. Feijóo, that you can tell. I know you can count, but I also know that you can tell stories; economic stories not to give reality to our country; the reality of a country that is concerned about what is happening and that is found with a president of the Galician Union who does not want to put himself with the necessary empathy in the face of such a complex situation. We ask you today to corroborate here, at this investment session, that you will take forward that offer of 15,000 public squares to which you have committed yourself in the electoral campaign. And, I ask you again, to fulfill that commitment. Just like we're going to ask you to meet in the field of health policy. We have different views, but it seems to us of the utmost gravity that you want to put here today a pact of silence so as not to talk about public health, that you say that we must withdraw the debate from public health, when it is a democratic, legitimate debate, to have the best policies and to control the government in the face of the cuts. And that's where we can't pass, we have to defend public health with complete clarity. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] We don't know the proposed organic health law you're talking about. Maybe she knows the Group of the People's Party, the rest don't. We know that he talks about a lot of issues, but it's also true that you don't tell the whole truth when you don't recognize that the organic law of the alarm state, in paragraph 4(b) directly talks about the state of alarm to respond to these pandemic situations, to health crises. That's in the legislation. And if there's a chance to improve, do it, but you do it with your party, too; go to the Congress of Deputies with the legislative initiative and represent the whole People's Party so as not to have different proposals depending on who the People's Party governs in one community or another. [[Applause]] I want to ask you, in addition, to get to work at the start of the school. We know there's protocol, that there was one of the advisors who was then announced to be late, but there's now a huge concern. There is all over Spain, but here duties have been made worse and less than anywhere. While other autonomous communities since July began hiring extra teachers to strengthen the beginning, nothing has been done here. Suddenly, the school course begins and all the parents and mothers in Galicia are deeply concerned because they didn't meet the necessary effort, and now we're late. Do everything you can to start this school course normally. The news of the day, Mr Feijóo, unfortunately, you gave it to you: the candidate for the Presidency of Galicia refuses to open an investigation commission to see what happened in the residences in our community. And I think it's a very worrying thing because your subconscious failed. He said he didn't want an investigation commission to be investigated by you and the Group of the People's Party. And we don't want to investigate any political party, we want to clarify the facts, fulfill a moral debt to the victims and the families of the victims, learn from mistakes, explain that it happened in residences with so many contagions and explain what happened to the protocols. And so I ask you to correct him, to take a step forward, and to support this research commission in which you have the commitment of the parliamentary group to act responsibly before the facts and families ahead. We owe Galicia and owe it to the Greeks. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Mr. Feijó, agreements must be reached. And agreements must be reached at all levels: in the parliamentary groups, between the social forces and also with the municipalities; of course, with the Galaga Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, the one you called at CECOP continuously until July, but now they don't call CECOP. So coordination also involves that, but it's also good that the president of the Galician Union speaks, talks and sits with the mayors and mayors of our country. And that's why I told you that, in addition to talking to the leadership of the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, it would be good for you to hear also the mayors and mayors of the seven great cities of Galicia, or, if you want, of the twenty main municipalities or of those that have more than twenty thousand inhabitants to have that daily dialogue, that fruitful dialogue between the autonomous administration and some municipalities that work so far and so far where the Government of the Union does not arrive. And, by the way, and Ourense, for when? Are you going to talk about Ourense? Are you going to talk about the deadly pact that marked the third most important city in Galicia? Will you maintain the covenant that your PP representatives continue to have with Jacome in an exercise of indignity, of fear and inaction? Why don't you talk about your responsibility where is the mayor that the People's Party has put in one of the largest cities in Galicia? He talks about Ourense and he fixes Ourense's municipal policy because there's a very long legislation left and he owes you that commitment after he puts that lethal result. [[Applause]] It's time to talk about many fundamental aspects. Now priority is the response to the economic, social and health crisis. I told you that the institutional response must be done with the Statute of Self-Government, which gives the competences to the Government of the Union in the fundamental issues to deal with this economic, social and health crisis. It's not that the candidate for the Presidency of Galicia aspires to be the leader of the opposition to the Government of Spain; it's that the candidate for the Presidency of the Union runs, exercises his responsibilities with the Greeks and the Greeks. So that's our line of action. When you get past the most complex moments of this cowardly crisis, you will also have the tendency of the PSdEG-PSOE to talk about the reform of the Statute. First, the crisis of cowardice, but if everything evolves as we expect and arrive at a part of the legislation in which the whole health, economic and social issue of the crisis is sufficiently clear, we are willing to talk about the reform of the Statute; to make a reform that allows for a more efficient institutional design to make good public policies, to defend people. Because we don't believe in self-determination; we believe in political action that puts people above any other kind. And on that line, we call on all parliamentary groups to be open to this work, to update the Statute, not to put any collective cause above people, but to have in people's law we also have the best statistical tool to make the best public policies in health, education, residences and so many areas of life we have. That'll also be the disposition of the PSdEG. We also want to point out in this intervention that we have a few years of great complexity and that there are European funds that will also be an opportunity to know how to deal with this crisis, that the funds that will be available from the European Union to the different states, also for an autonomous state like Spain, we have to see how to take advantage of them, and we want to contribute and collaborate from that commission or where it is proposed, from the opposition, because I have different suggestions to its own, but we respect the outcome of the polls in these elections, and that you have, of course, the majority to govern. But we want to tell you that we have to face these challenges of digitization, of ecological transition, of new social relationships. We can't lose the train to take advantage of this crisis, with the funds that will come from Europe, we don't make the reforms and the strategic contributions necessary to keep up to date, not to stay behind, because we've already had the experience of so many funds sometimes that they haven't been taken advantage of in all their magnitude.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u22	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u23	He said Celso Emilio Ferreiro that "the people want land/ as Anteo in the fable./ The earth wants people/ to be fruitful./ They will never come from outside/ cure or hope." I believe that out there can be remedies or hopes, but I think we have to carry out a country project that also gives these European funds a sufficient boost to get a Galicia of more opportunities and a Galicia of the future, and for that you will have the tender hand. Mr. candidate for the Presidency of Galicia, the differences in project, measures, ideas between the People's Party and the Socialist Party for these four years show that, by responding to the message of our voters, the PSdEG is and will be in opposition, but I want to wish you all luck and all the best government for these four years, because your luck is also the luck of all the Greeks and the Greeks. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u24	Thank you, Mr. Knight. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, while we are holding this debate here today, there are thousands of citizens who are looking at us in their homes or at their jobs and perhaps thinking that we should take them into account when we go to this gallery. That's what I think we have to keep in mind, what there are thousands of people in this country today who are afraid and who are afraid because they don't know what's going to happen to their work, because they may be suspicious that in the future they won't be able to take over their bills, who are afraid of their health and who are afraid because we're only a few days away from starting the school course and there are no guarantees of that security for children, or they're also afraid that they have older people in a residence and they know that they're a risk collective and that they need protection from health authorities. I believe that our challenge and the greatest responsibility we have today is to give them real solutions to the problems that this citizenship has and not to come to this Parliament to a war of numbers and to a pim, pam, i thought they were not worth anything, but rather to give them solutions. And that's why I want to reiterate from this rostrum that this is the main concern of the BNG, that of bringing forward the country in the midst of the main health and economic crisis that we have experienced in recent decades, and that our responsibility - more than that of the Government, but also that of the whole of Members and Members - is to contribute so that we can raise the country in a very difficult situation and put before Galicia's interests. And I want to make it clear that this is the will of BNG, to work for all the people in this country, to think about what they think, to vote for those who voted, because, of course, it is the most important challenge we have as a society. [[Applause]] And that's why I want to insist that it's not ballad how we want to build agreements. We understand that in the face of an exceptional situation like the one we are living in, it is important that all and all of us can sit on the same table, that this agreement is not conceived from the routine of a government that elaborates a plan, that sends it to Parliament and that uses its absolute majority to get it forward, and that we actually build that great country agreement sitting down and all of us talking and providing the different visions and ideas that exist in Greek society, because Greek society is plural, there is not a single-party society. Galicia is a country where there are different visions of how the future should be articulate. And we have the responsibility to bring these different alternatives here and to look for those meeting points that allow us to move forward. That's why, Mr. Feijóo, I would like you not to come here and just to say that not because the proposals come from the opposition and what serious value we are moving to, because to build a country agreement up to the situation we are living at the moment it is necessary that we run away from the routine and that we really have a space where the different sectors of Greek society - political parties, trade unions, business organizations, universities, councils and the most dynamic sectors of Greek society - have a forum to wake up and work for the good of the country. It's a sincere offer, and I'd like to hear from you something more than a shrapnel at the moment when we're experiencing the most difficult situation in the country of recent times. [[Applause]] Because, look, it's obvious that between the People's Party and the BNG there are many differences as to how we conceived politics, how we conceived the country and what our ideology is, but you can also believe me when I sincerely wish you that the government that is going to conform in the coming days is a government that is right, because your achievements will be those of all and of all, and we are at a time when you must first find out to save people's lives and health and, secondly, to safeguard the economic future of this country. And this I know is an important challenge that will require much more than what came to do his government. To be sure, it is important to have a realistic diagnosis of what the starting point is and also to recognize that there are things that are not doing well, because if you come here as you came in the morning to tell us that there is a Galician where everything is all right, where there is nothing to change, because your government already has clear what to do, and that everything it does is perfect and they are also infallible -- because they don't recognize that in the middle of a pandemic like this are doing some things wrong -- that's what I'm worried about, Mr. Feijóo, because if they don't recognize the mistakes it will cause the Galicians and the Greeks to continue to pay the consequences of their lack of self-criticism. That does seem serious to me. [[Applause]] It just comes to a point where, if you do, you end up believing your own lies. Look, you told us here, for example, that there was more work. But if there are fewer busy people than when you came! We just have to go to the statistics to see them. Or even he has come to say - no matter what he does not want to focus too much on the debate, but it is that I find it very exemplifying how you distort reality - that in the case of Meirás the first report that had been made outside that of the Union and that they were then the rest of the institutions to respond. It wasn't like that, Mr. Feijóo! The first report that was made was that of the Deputy of the Crown, which specifically made public on February 27, and then the board made a report at the end of June. And the verdict that we all recognize as a success of Galicia fortunately is that the report of the Crown Deputy goes on the right line, and does not take much note of the Board's report in any respect, such as, for example, in which the Franco family was to be compensated. That's what happened, and I'm just saying it because, of course, it comes here and distorts reality; it does it in the case of Meirás, but it also does it with other subjects that are more worrying. You are the one who came back here saying that the cuts in health did not exist, and this is a ton of hair. He wanted to hide behind a pandemic the serious health problem, and very specifically in primary care. I could -- and I want to do it -- remind you that in this country in recent years there have been great mobilizations by workers and primary care workers against their health policy, because whoever attacks health is not the one who denounces the cuts, it is the one who undermines the working conditions of workers and health workers. [[Applause]] Do you know what the primary care chiefs said when at the end of 2018 they gave up on a block for their health policy? They said, "The chiefs of service decided to resign because we were organizing the deficiencies in public health, but we can't organize misery. The system is maintained by the over-rehearsing of professionals." That's what primary care chiefs said in this country, and of course, I'm dishonest about trying to hide the problems that our health has behind a pandemic. Don't do it, because he's playing with the health of the future. [[Applause]] Look, he cut more than 2,000 million euros into primary care, which today has less resources than when you arrived at Galician Union. And either you lie or you lie to the Galego Statue of Statistics, because there are fewer beds installed in the Greek hospitals than when you got to Galician Union. That's what the Galego Institute of Statistics says. [[Applause]] And besides, if there were problems in that area that you, in order for Galicia to meet the criteria of the escalation plan, it had to include beds that do not exist, it would have to be installed in sports clubs in order to meet the criteria; it included campaign hospitals in order to meet the criteria of escalation. Of course, Mr Feijóo, I believe that if you want to continue with this health policy, you will be wrong and you will make a historic mistake for the future of this country. And I remind you -- because I don't have much time left -- that yes, I think it's embarrassing what happened in the homes of older people, what they've been saying about that subject and that they don't want to admit the mistakes. [[Applause]] And it seems to me, moreover, alarming to be told that they do it well because others do it worse; like others do it worse, you think things are going well. I don't think that's an argument that I can use before anyone in this country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u26	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u27	That's part of the problem, which you, instead of comparing yourself to the one who does it well, is continually compared to the worst, and Galicia deserves to have a government that wants this to be an example of a country. We need a government with ambition, a government that trusts our ability to get ahead. There's a moment when we all have to work for the sake of Galicia. My group and I are humble people who, with the best of will, have come to this Parliament to do our best to get Galicia forward. And, apart from the differences, we want to put the Greeks and the Greeks in front of those differences. We believe that this is the moment of a great deal of country agreement and, indeed, Mr. Feijóo, I think that Galicia deserves more than her routine and that her shrapnels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I left here this morning — and now, above all, with the last part of the last intervention — a bit confused, because we are in an investment debate and not in a debate of the state of autonomy prior to elections. Certainly, we can discuss data, Mr Caballero: if what goes away from the family is the child that works, GDP falls - so these examples are not, perhaps, too interesting - either. GDP falls per capita if what moves is what works; if what moves is a child, because indeed GDP per capita rises, but because it is going to study. But it's not now time to get into these things; the fact is that per capita GDP has risen, and that's a magnificent news, because when the population is diminished, the productive capacity of a country falls. Therefore, Galicia, despite having a bad demographic situation, is greatly improving the efficiency of its economy because it goes up per capita production, and that's good news. Just as it is good news that the judge had failed in favour of the state's lawyer following the legal reports; among others, what this Parliament has sent him and that he has prepared the Board for this House, because that is a great triumph from all over the country. And everything added because, as the judgment states, the important thing is that there was a broad social consensus, and that is what we have to be satisfied with, is the lesson to be learned. If we go together with the reason ahead, we get the targets; if we go apart, most likely there was no sentence. I think that's the main lesson in Meirades. I said we're not making a balance. At this time the people of Galicia have spoken, and it has given a very clear result: 42 Members to the People's Party project, 19 to the Galician Nationalist Block and 14 to the Socialist Party. If I were in the opposition, what I would understand is that, after four consecutive victories by an absolute majority, even increasing percentages in an economic crisis situation like the one we live in, and now in a pandemic situation managed by this government, it can't be said that it's all wrong. You worry about Mr. Feijóo saying what's right, and to me what worries me is that opposition is still saying it's all wrong. I really don't care too much from a political point of view. As we start the legislation again by talking about the black decade, that everything is wrong, that health is being destroyed, etc., I suppose we'll have, instead of four, five legislates for the absolute majority to rule. [[Applause]] The fact is that the elections gave Galicia an advantage -- the advantage of stability and the advantage of having a stable government four years ahead. But, of course, we have a problem ahead of us that generates the worst situation a government has to deal with. I said this morning - and I repeat - that Galicia is in Spain, Spain, which has the worst health and economic results in Europe. And so that's something we'd all have to think about. Of course, Galicia -- and perhaps that's why we also have most -- it's significantly better than the average, which is not a consolation; it's not even a little better in the economic field than Portugal, for the latest data we know. The important thing is that we have confidence in the country; the important thing is that we have confidence in the president, and we have confidence in it because it acts with responsibility, because it is noted that it has also learned from the facts. You keep the idea that you're saying the same thing you always said. I believe that, if anything has shown the management of the crisis in recent months, it has been the importance of anticipation and rapid reaction. Where you see criterion changes like, for example, why one thing was done in the Coruña and another in Santiago, because I tell you it was because you saw in the Coruña that closing later, when there was a infection in a gym, it was dangerous, because then it was spreading a lot. And from that lesson, Santiago learns: when he appears in a gym, logically, the measurements are taken before. That's reacting and anticipating, it's not being judgmental. They say there's nothing going on. Well, man, the passenger register, which I know, did it to Junta, not to the Ministry. The containment measures in the regions of the Navy and the Coruña, or recently in the neighborhood of Lugo — or, more recently, in different cities — were also the health counsellor who put them on; he was no minister. What administration is making teachers, children's schools, tempores, employees of the industry? I think it's clear what the answer is. Who has just published a protocol in the DOG to order the quarantine and isolation processes and establish a sanctioning regime for those who fail to do so? To Union. Maybe the Ministry should've done it, but he did it at Junta. Who pushed the smoking ban when there's no safety distance that prevents infection through the air? He went to Junta. I added it a few days later to the Ministry. Who developed an education protocol that imposed the mandatory mask on the student from the age of six? He went to Junta; that's right, a few days later, also the Ministry. And what's more important: how were these measures implemented or how were these measures driven? Well, it was done, first, by counting on the municipalities, and dialogue with the mayors, with the Fegamp and the Government's delegation through CECOP, and then the measures were taken to Spain, with proposals to the interterritorial councils and sectoral conferences, and even, as this morning came to reprobate, sending bills of law to the state to contribute from Galicia to giving out better management of the pandemic. In addition to all this, to act urgently, to solve the problems, we also learned the importance of experts; all this was from the hands of experts. I insist: in Galicia there is a committee of experts known, with names and surnames, not as elsewhere. And we also learn the importance of institutions, because they reduce uncertainty. We have seen that autonomy works, because it is closer and knows the reality in making confinement; we have seen that the state also works, because it has instruments to, when the situation overflows, generate the state of alarm, and we have seen that the European Union works because, if not for it, at this time, as well as the candidate said this morning, Galicia - Spain - is living in the creto that gives the European Central Bank and, of course, the hope of recovery of our economy passes through the funds that, for the first time, with a consortiumed commitment from all the countries of the European Union, will give us. The crisis, of course, has also shown that there is a need for adjustments. I think the candidate made a good argument in favor of the co-government. We all rejoice when we talked about the minimum vital income; we all said that the logic was to manage it by the autonomous communities that had experience; we gave it to two autonomous communities. As a result, 1% of life-threatening minimum income applicants have been charged today, and in addition to those who have left their basic incomes, they have lost income, because they don't receive one or another. Coordination is necessary. Coordination is also necessary in financial matters! We are seeing that no opposition group has commented on the distribution of educational funds, and to me this is a powerful attention, because that is the key. You can say that it's going to be done, that it's going to be hired... but, in the end, all of this has to have a financial backing behind it. And in addition, transparency and objectivity are necessary in the distribution of funds; it cannot be that education funds emerge from the rational criteria that take into account the cost of providing the educational service in each autonomous community, for example, in Galicia, dispersing and transport. There has already been an allusion, which was the allusion to a new coupon — and if it is not to the coupon, which is maximist, to the corporate tax —. Well, there is another author, Ivan Krastev, who said that a lesson from the pandemic — that I have not brought the collation this morning — is that the breakdown of supply networks and the clear economic interdependence between nations demonstrate, among other things, that nationalism is economically unsustainable. And today the nationalist leader gave us a clear example of asking for transparency in corporate tax. It turns out that the corporate tax, which has the whole redistributive logic in the area where the market works, where that company works, is a problem for Spain, because companies are going out; it's a problem for the European Union, because companies working in Europe are going out; and it's an international problem to the point that international transactions are being taxed to control something of the big corporations, which there is no one else to follow because companies tend to live in because of tax incentives, and the great economic solution for Galicia is corporate tax. I believe that, if we count on this to finance all the expenditure that has been proposed, if it is true that Krastev's sentence: " nationalism leads to economic ruin." And if there's any doubt about the business movement before political decisions, remember what happened when the process started and the declaration of independence was made. [[Applause]] Where did many of the most important Catalan companies live? The pandemic has positive things. I believe that appreciation for the common, which unites us as human beings, support and solidarity with the victims of illness help those who suffer from continence by feeling all of us vulnerable...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u30	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u31	... also the predisposition to joint and common work — I believe the President has also gathered this — with a committee in Parliament in which we expect these offers of dialogue to be sincere and productive, and through social dialogue. President, I would like, on behalf of the majority group, to give you good time: you are a single case, with four majority sufficient to govern, in the democratic environment where we move and, in addition, raising percentages of support. This can be nothing other than the result of responsible work, of well done work, of their confidence in Galicia; a confidence in Galicia that I believe we share all groups. Then, too, let's hold hands to the opposition groups, because the task we have ahead is ingenuity. President, very lucky, very correct, and you know that it counts with most of the House -- which is the same thing as most of Galicia -- to work on overcoming this pandemic. I'm sure we will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Puy. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The candidate's double shift. Mr. Nuñez Feijóo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Knight, thank you very much for the tender hand that summarized your first part of the intervention. Let's see if we're capable of realising the content and scope of that offer, which, as you know, is an absolutely reciprocal offer. I'm reciprocal because, indeed, we're not in a normal legislation. We're not in a normal situation, and that's why I think it's worth agreeing on. It would be good to agree on the management of the pandemic; it would be good to agree on European funds; it would be good to agree, at least, when we discuss the figures, because, when a true diagnosis is made, it enables effective treatment. I thank you very much - and I take good note in strict sense - that your hand, the hand of your group, is tending towards the majority group, and I understand that it will also be held when we have an opportunity to formalize the new government of Galicia. Your Honor, I did not in any case try to misjudge you or anyone, when I said the 2009 crisis in Galicia - from 2011 in Spain - was a crisis that was managing the Socialist Party. You said there was a recession, and it's true. The difference between countries and others is that many countries accepted that there was an economic crisis, but you denied it consistently, continuously and consciously. They denied the economic crisis in the 2008 elections. They won the 2008 elections because most people thought that there was really no crisis; at most, a small downturn, and you left a lot of holes in it. The responsibility of these holes of the Bipartite budget was mostly the Government of the Socialist Party in Madrid, because it had transferred to the autonomous community, artificially, contributions in IRPF and in IVE that were false, and therefore the hole they left to the next Government exceeded the two billion euros. That's why I don't think it's fair to hear the BNG and the Socialist Party talk about the supposed cuts. Look, we did what we did was we were born with cutbacks, because we had 2,000 million euros without paying, and we had to pay them so that people, self-employed people and small and medium-sized businesses could come by the end of the month. So they left a Galicia cut, and we delivered a Galicia — before the vault — with the best economic data they remember in terms of GDP, in terms of exports, in terms of economic growth, in terms of terms, lordships, industrial production index, in terms of modernization and innovation, and also in terms of public health and public education. And I refer to the results of the PISA report, the results of the health barometer and the objective results of the waiting lists, the technology, the new hospitals and the new health centers. I think Professor Puy tried to explain that per capita GDP is a little more complex than you come here to caricature. But, well, as you're a teacher of this I have nothing to say, as you can imagine. But I imagine Asturias, Aragon, Castile and Lion or Cantabria also lowered the population. So why are we, together with Extremadura, the autonomous community that increased Spain's per capita GDP the most in the ten years of government? And why are we, above Extremadura, the autonomous community that converges with the average of Spain with greater intensity? Look, Mr. Caballero, Mr. Puy said that GDP also takes account of the country's productive capacity, and when we have less productive capacity they will understand that this remains for us as well as gross domestic capacity. So come here to say that nothing, that this of increasing GDP — the first autonomous community — and entering into terms of convergence with Spain as it is never a matter of the candidate's floral game to the Council of Galicia, man! that's not very reasonable. It's not very reasonable from a Member's point of view and much less reasonable from a person who's dedicated to teaching a part of the economy. I can assure you that even in law we are able to interpret GDP per capita of a country. That's why I'm surprised you've got this amazing approach. Why are we able to increase exports with a historical record of the country? Don't you think that's merit? Does it not seem to you that it is commendable, for example, that we should be the autonomous community that has increased Spain's public debt? No, he doesn't care. He doesn't care, Your Honor, duty or pay. I understand that the verbs in it are the same, in the same space of time, but between duty and pay there is a huge difference. When we arrived in the Government, there was more population, and yet GDP debt was above the average in Spain. Now there's less population and yet the debt in GDP is 6 points below the average of Spain. Some things we would do well in budgetary policy and economic policy. We heal the country, and when a president is told he doesn't perform his duties when he leaves a healthy country... It would be healthy for the opposition if I had the votes needed to be able to rule, and no holes in the budget. I can assure you that entering an autonomous community without holes in the budget I don't know what it is. And I can assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that to meet the public deficit and be even a year closer to the balance of public accounts by lowering taxes to half a million Greek citizens — i.e. 99.9 % of the Greeks don't have to pay a potato when they inherit their parents and their mothers, or that in Galicia no galley has to pay a euro for a transmission, for a permut or for a purchase in rural areas — I think it's worth putting it in value, put into value this great country effort that we've made among all of us. So, when a German owes 2,000 euros less than the rest of the citizens living in autonomous communities, and when the autonomous public farm has 18% debt on GDP, when it turns out that there are autonomous communities with 40% debt on GDP, which autonomous community is freer? Which autonomous community best manages its own competences? Which autonomous community manages self-government better? One that owes 40% of its gross domestic product or one that owes 18% of its gross domestic product, with 6 points below average? And we are able to have all of this, ladies and gentlemen, the autonomous community that pays best in the country, which pays best in terms of days from the bill to the day of the sale by the autonomous farm. Mr. Knight, this GDP thing I think you don't read it well, or, if you read it and want to fool us, it would be doubtful, it would be strange. Because, after the crackdown this morning, saying that as was the Greek economy, it has a contraction of GDP! —I would like to repeat that four points below the average of the Spanish economy—is something that I think is worth putting into value. That is why, Mr. Caballero, on economic matters let us say that we have different options. Look, I was the leader of the opposition for four years, just like my group. We had clearly enormous electoral support, we had won the elections in a powerful way, President Fraga won again for the fifth consecutive time the elections and we missed a seat for the absolute majority. Do you know how many committees of inquiry have allowed their group and the nationalists to do to the majority group of the House? None! You have never voted in favour of an investigation commission led by the majority group of the House, ever! Do you know that this majority group in the House for several years has given the opposition the right to present an inquiry commission when it considers it appropriate? Present it, you exercise your ability to present a commission of inquiry. There's no problem. I suppose if you present a commission of inquiry and exercise that right that we didn't have when we were most less a seat, you'll attend it. It's not going to be that we're convinced to do a health research commission and that the first ones who don't attend are the Socialist Party and the BNG I suppose, ladies and gentlemen, that that's not the reasonable place of residence. [[Applause]] In any case, Mr. Caballero, you have to be careful about this type of approach, because do you think it is reasonable that our country, Spain, doesn't know the number of people killed by the vault, and that there is a statistics from the Ministry of Health and a statistics from the Carlos III Institute and another statistics from the National Institute of Statistics? Do you think that gives us some credibility and, above all, legitimacy to investigate? Investigate what? I can assure you that there is no one in Galicia — we could get there! — that you can say that the Galician Union has omitted a single data on the matter of hideth, and much less on the matter of deaths — in residences, out of residences, hospitals or anywhere—. But, finally, there are questions, as is logical, that differentiate us. You're proposing a statistic reform. He says he wants to talk about a state reform once he solves the crisis problem. I thank you for your confidence that we will be able to solve the crisis in which we are. He says you don't accept the right to self-determination. Well, I don't think there's therefore a great deal of agreement in the House, because you have your partners in the deputies and cities that pose the right to Galician self-determination. Not you today, don't propose. I don't know if the Socialist Party thinks so at the national level, I don't know what the Socialist Party's opinion is, but I'd like to know what the Socialist Party's proposal for statutory reform is. With a lot of interest, if you bring it to us, if you think about it, if you don't bring it in, we can study it. There are different sensitivities in the constitutional field. What I can assure you is that I suppose we'll discuss the text, not the explanatory statement, because in the past the problem was that we didn't agree in the explanatory statement, the text was equal. Look, with all due respect, as Mrs. Pontón said, I think the main concern of the people who are seeing us is neither the right of self-determination nor the reform of the Statute of Self-Government. But, as is logical, I have every interest in knowing what the current Socialist Party's sensitivity, under its leadership, is in relation to the reform of Galicia's Autonomy Statute. I agree with you, Your Honor, that we must study and take advantage of European funds, without a doubt. And you agree with me that the policy of European funds is currently largely in the hands of the European People's Party. That is why we thank the President of the Commission, the European Central Bank and the Commissioner for Budgets for having this sensitivity, which, as you can imagine, we share in the same parliamentary group. And the truth is, we have submitted three tractor projects, which have not been invalidated. It is true that we have to refer them to that reconstruction commission in greater detail. The three tractor projects we speak of, and which we diagnose and implement during the pandemic, are made by independent people, by people who know the real market, the Greek market, the capabilities of Galicia's natural resources, the wood and forest capabilities, the energy capacities, and also the needs to recycle the purines and all kinds of considerations to make an energy plant. All this is well worth helping us to improve it, even to expand it if it is considered appropriate. It would be fundamental. But you know that at the moment what is at stake — I put it on the table and it has not been commented upon — is what is currently being approved in Europe, and unfortunately it seems to be approved, which are criteria for the distribution of European funds by which Galicia may lose 40%. We therefore have a broad view of the European funds and do not think that the issue is how to use the European Reconstruction Fund — which of course — while we are losing European funds in the ordinary budget. Because Galicia cannot lose European funds, and this is the proposal that the Heads of Government, starting with our own, of course, have on the table. And this means that Galicia has a 40% decrease in European funds that we have been receiving in the previous period. And the only party and the only group that's been putting this on the table for months now is this group. I would like to be with you on these issues. It is not only to speak ill of Galicia in Brussels, which is one of the issues that some parliamentarians use — not both their group and others alike. That's why I think we have a lot of work. Of course, European funds must be used. You'll understand that the E Plan, with 8,000 million of Plan E, is not the proposal. The Socialist E Plan understands that it was part of the mistakes of the past and that we are not going to incur them now. I criticized Plan E and was widely criticized in this House. I criticised that in times of economic crisis we could not extend the sidewalks and parks. We had to seek structural measures, and now we have to talk about structural measures. And this is not the time — I understand — in the investment debate, to talk about structural measures. But you know that we will accompany the Government of Spain, which is our government, when it proposes real structural measures. For what? To keep the welfare state in the future, to create jobs, to have money in pensions, not to fool anyone, not to say that you have to hire thousands and thousands and thousands of people and it turns out that we have no money to pay for the payroll we've already hired. Finally, Mr. Knight, to speak seriously I receive your tender hand, to speak seriously. And you have the assurance that I have no more objective than to be serious. Because the rest is very tired and I can assure you it's not interesting, because with our lay parents we won't pay anything and we won't solve anything. And to speak now, as they speak so easily, of the number of people to hire, of the number of issues we have to do when it turns out that then we don't even know how we can anticipate the 2020 budgets... because we don't have a single central government data, not one!, and we're in September. This is historical. Nothing! The autonomous presidents and the autonomous communities do not know the deficit rule, nor the spending rule, nor the debt capacity, nor the contributions to make the assumptions of the autonomous community, and it turns out that the opposition groups here are asking for a contract. The question is, can you tell me what? No, there's a hidden background. The covered background was dissectiond according to interests I still don't know. But they canceled the bottom cover of the autonomic financing system. And Galicia lost at the bottom of health and at the bottom of education, in both funds. I haven't heard anything either, ladies and gentlemen, and I think that's really important. That's why I receive with great interest, Mr. Knight, your tender hand. Because I keep it. The rest of the questions I understand are questions to include in a debate — for that is called debate — and to include in a turn of action. But, honestly, I think if the hand tends to be to talk about matters that interest workers, unemployed people, families with less resources, teachers or health care personnel, tell you about our commitment not only to listen but to learn. It might seem that after a few years we don't have to learn anything. No, Mrs. Pontón, we still have much to learn, very much; to me first. I've spent my whole life dedicated to public service and managing public interests. I'm never 100 percent satisfied with any of the decisions I've made. And I can assure you that I have no more interest than to learn and study every day. Because he who thinks he knows more, or he who thinks he has more experience, or he who thinks he can teach others... I'm not interested in teaching, I'm interested in learning. And I'm interested in learning because what we've got ahead isn't much. Mrs. Pontón says there are a lot of people who are afraid, and it's logical. What I'm never going to participate in is to get scared, that's not. It's all right to fear that people will come here to scare us! [[Murmurs.]] That's it, ladies, that's not it anymore. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] That's why I, of course, live in a country where public health is the best in Europe; where school dropout went down to half; where we have 100,000 students who know much more English, much more than we knew at their age, and where all boys and girls can read and write and understand perfectly their own language. I, of course, live in a country that has over 200 miles of high capacity tracks without a euro of toll, made in full economic recession. I live in a country that has never fished as much as now and in which the price of kilograms and per tonne has never been as great as now and as high. I live in a country where it has never been produced as much wood as now, as much wine as now and as much milk as now, never! I live in a country, Mrs. Pontón, which I think is the same as yours. What's the matter is that you live in a country that probably underestimates. And he thinks that the Greeks are not able to look without fear at what we have before us, and he always has to find fault in someone: in government, if he governs the PP, and in Madrid, if he governs someone other than you and his partners. Well, no, Your Honor. Do we have a great country? Yes. And today this country is better than in 2009? Also, no doubt. The damn pandemic came to destroy the economic capabilities and expectations we had in the country, because we were going one of the best moments in Galicia's economic history. Mrs. Pontón, celebrate this because I think it's important. That, ladies and gentlemen, is very important. Mrs. Pontón, you've come here to talk about employment. But if you in the last year of legislation destroyed 50,000 jobs! I found a Galician who destroyed fifty-four thousand members of Social Security in the last 12 months, when you always pressed the button in favor of the Government. And now it turns out we have nothing more and nothing less than more people and less unemployed than when we get to the government, but it turns out we've all done wrong. We have 37,325 unemployed less in this legislation. And if you want to take the August data, even during the pandemic, 26,000 unemployed less. This is the data, Your Honor. You take the membership. Well, 43,800 more affiliates in this last legislation. And if you want to compare them with August, because in Galicia there are 44,000 more members of Social Security. We're between the second and third autonomous community with better welfare behaviour. And that's why -- I repeat again -- I am surprised, Mrs. Pontón, that I have such a bad concept of the country. Because it is obvious that we can continue to improve, of course. But, man, to say that in terms of unemployment and affiliation... What we have is a different active population, of course. Why? Because we lost youth, and among children under thirty-five we have 165,000 fewer people. So when you compare the active population -- that mix everything -- you don't, however, say we have 95,000 more people working with more than thirty-five years. That's not what they say. As we have fewer young population going around. But that of the population, the active population, unemployment, affiliations and EPA will have to mix everything and reach a conclusion, not take a variable and intoxicate the whole set of subsequent variables. In affiliations we were practically in the same number of affiliates we inherited in 2009, although Spain was about to ask for the ransom; and we were in government. And again we are back in government when Spain is being assisted by the European Central Bank without limit. We are still in government in this enormous difficulty, in extraordinary difficulty, with a loss of 22% gross domestic product! It seemed impossible. Can anyone say here that unemployment is coming at the end of this year? Can anyone venture as soon as we increase the public deficit in Spain and therefore also of the autonomous communities that we make up it? Are we really not going to be serious about the most serious issues we've got ahead? That's our proposal, to be serious. If the elections have already been, if now they don't play until 2024, let's take advantage! We took advantage of the confidence stream of a people who in the middle of the pandemic went to the polls, even though there were political parties that were saying it was nonsense to go to the polls and that we had to go to the polls now. That was also judged in everyone's history, ladies and gentlemen. I was trying to convince myself to make the elections in September, or October! And I tried to answer that this was a huge irresponsibility, that the outbreaks would be exponential and that the best time to make the elections was to end the confinement period. Ladies and gentlemen, it's in the Journal of Sessions, in the hemerotheques; each one's responsibility. I am very proud, ladies and gentlemen, of acting in good faith and always defending the interests of Galicia, never defending the interests of a particular political party. [[Applause]] No, Mrs. Pontón, you'll never hear from me that everything is fine in Galicia, because Galicia, however good it may be, will never be as it deserves. You'll never hear me say that what we do is as much as you can do. We try to succeed and often do not succeed, but we have no commitment to anyone, but to the Greeks and anything else; we don't have to account for any polytburon. Here we are in a democratic political party that presents itself to the elections, that makes its electoral program, that submits itself to the investment sessions and that is subject to the control of the House. There's no president of the board who answered as many questions as I answered. Because before they could ask only one question of thirty-seven seats, only one! You'll remember: a question. Most of the House could ask the president a question -- that is, two a month. And now it turns out that here you can ask questions — as is logical — all groups: the Mixed Group, the missing group and the other two remaining groups. There's a group that's not -- I say -- [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't know, before there were three spokespersons, now it looks like there are two. We even had one of the Joint Group. I don't know if they'll remember but I do, perfectly; I answered the questions. I mean, Your Honor, Galicia deserves so much, it deserves everything. So when I say, why don't we really talk about public health, I'm not saying that health isn't discussed, of course. I am sorry if I expressed myself badly when I said: let's get the health debate out of the policy debate. No, of demagogic politics, of false politics. [[Murmurs.]] Look, ladies and gentlemen, one of the reasons I dedicate myself to politics is because I think the lie can't defeat the truth. [[Murmurs.]] And I dedicate myself to politics for the truth to be above the lie. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] And when one, Your Honor, says that the PP privatizes health, mind; when one said that the PP would charge equal money for a consultation, equal money for a test, equal money for an overnight stay in a hospital, he lied. But that's got a member of the political parties, that's divided into an electoral campaign! Yes, yes, yes. [[Murmurs.]] That's what I think we were supposed to banish. When one tells people that in Vigo we've done a private hospital, mind. And when you're trying to transfer to people that doctors in Sergas give up because they have incentives from the Galician Health Service, you're lying. [[Murmurs.]] That is the health policy in which I believe that we should not re-enact, that is our proposal. [[Murmurs.]] There you are! Do you want to pick it up? We could move forward. Don't you want to pick her up? Well, it'll be your responsibility. But to say that now we have fewer beds than before... but if it's fake! Or simply to say that in order to pass the Ministry of Health test we counted the beds of the campaign hospitals, when it turns out that the Ministry of Health test realized the capacity to deploy campaign hospitals in all autonomous communities, and that input had to be filled. And it turns out we've done the test by filling that up. And he comes here giving a real example about the beds? But, ladies and gentlemen, this is really a serious matter, Mrs. Pontón, it's a serious matter! Now it turns out that the mental health plan has changed and the mentally ill are in different places and not in internal psychiatric hospitals. Therefore, except in acute Psychiatry units — of course — there are no longer chronic beds in a continuous and powerful manner, as there were in the hospital of Toén or in the Psychiatric Hospital of Conxo. And now it turns out that Mrs. Pontón's doing her job without paying attention to it and reaching an account. Well, I want to tell you, as long as you're president, that Galicia has fewer hospital beds, of course, I can't accept it. [[Laughter]] When you lower your average hospital stay — before your average stay was in ten days and now in seven days — it turns out: what is more efficient?, have a patient ten days in hospital or have him seven? I think it's reasonable to have it seven. And when we increase one-hundred percent of the major uninherited surgery, it turns out that it doesn't count in bed. Oh, and I should count! Are we really going to be serious about the country's health? A Galician Health Service that makes surgery bigger than ever before, a Galician Health Service that makes a smaller average stay than is never an efficient public service. The public can also be efficient, and can be efficient the public health of a country when it is able to make fewer nights and more outpatient surgery, as the best health services in the world do. And that's what I think we should think about, Mrs. Pontón, and don't come here with accounts that you don't believe except what you put them on, and then you don't want to check them out! Mrs. Pontón, it's routine to speak again about nationalizing the bank. But don't you realize that, in addition to being tired, is that absolutely anachronistic? It's just that there is no European Union - I know that you don't care about the European Union - at the same time. [[Murmurs.]] Nationalize the bank, break the power grid and make one for Galicia. But is that really not routine, Mrs. Pontón? [[Murmurs.]] That's a routine for me, because the parties are evolving and we're trying to interpret what's the best recipe for solving people's problems. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And don't come here with the Nationalist Bible every day to try to indoctrinate most of the country that isn't a believer in the Nationalist Bible. Ma'am, leave us free to believe what we think! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] No, Your Honor, no, the Greeks think for themselves and know perfectly well that nationalizations are always made to nationalize losses. Yes, yes. [[Murmurs.]] Well, how are your countries and how are these? [[Murmurs.]] How is the hemisphere where we work and how are other places where nationalization and state-of-the-state work! [[Murmurs.]] Look: stop ordering people so much and let people see for their own discretion and do what they consider appropriate. Because that's the difference between a person, a human being, and other living beings: the ability to think, the ability to decide, the ability not to be subject to what the usual ones say. No, no, the ability to vote, the ability to compete, the ability to study, the ability to sacrifice, these are really the challenges that we are raising. [[Murmurs.]] We're interested in free Galicia, not nationalized Galicia. We're interested in a European Galician and not a similar Galician. We're interested in an American Galician, European and Spanish, not a Galician nation. That's what we're interested in, gentlemen. We're interested in a free Englishman to say what he wants. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, in any case, I think it is always an honor to be able to debate with you, it will be for the next few years, and with great interest. I think we made a series of proposals, and most of them didn't comment. Maybe they're not that bad. I think making an organic law, making a proposal to improve the legislative idiomecum in Spain in the matter of pandemics is essential, because it's empty. And I think that making a public health law in Galicia is responsible, because we have to say what we want for Spain and also what we want for Galicia in a pandemic. And to propose nothing but the resizing of public health, to suggest that we have to inform all families during the school course, to propose that we comply with the commitment and protocol that we have signed with the central government and with other colleagues from autonomous communities and say, gentlemen, that we are waiting for a solar in Coruña to make a new hospital I think it's good news. It's good news, and we're sure to agree. Or to say that we have to assist the Montecelo Hospital, which was deserted in the first bid, I think it's good news. That's why when we say we're going to end hospitals and end health centers I suppose there won't be any municipality governed by the Socialist Party or the Galician Nationalist Block that is pending to give up a proper and sufficient parcel to be able to build a health center. And since it's not about this right now, I do know which ones give them and which ones don't. And still above -- I insist -- they make a platform to tell the Galician board, the president and the health advisor, because they're privatizing health in their county. I wouldn't be able to do this, it's a tall problem. I can't, I can't get out. I can't blame BNG for something that's my fault, and I can't blame the Socialist Party for something that's my responsibility. So they're a little serious and we're moving forward in a country that wants to end their hospitals, expand hospitals, end health centers and make primary care more resolute and more committed. In the discussion that we had about whether or not to limit primary care appointments you are in favour of limiting them. Tell them clearly, you think the schedules of primary care doctors should be closed: 15 people, 20 people... and point. And if a person asks for an appointment and it's covered, it won't happen. Well, that's your plan. It's perfectly legitimate, but tell them, because that was the big discussion we had at that time. And the big discussion we have at the moment is to continue to evaluate and continue to put forward the proposals. A new regulations for old-age residences. If the Bipartite had done it, it was no longer necessary to do it. But it was the same one that had left Fraga, and the same one that is left now. Imagine, I suppose we wouldn't all hurt each other all the time, and those on that bench. It served for a government that had the well-being as a frontispic. Well, I think when we increased the care plan and helped in the home or 40% the squares in old-age residences, some things were done right. And when we renew all technology and infrastructure — which still remains, especially in technology — in the field of justice; or when we have a social dialogue table with two trade unions — they make us a third — or when we have already closed the Galician Strategic Plan until 2030 and we have to reconsider it by the pandemic — you are, of course, to perfect it and improve it; or when we talk about reforming the Jacobean; or such things as the Plan of Support for numerous families or the equipping of single-parent families; or the equipping of families of two children and numbers; or the freeness from April, and for the first time in Spain in an autonomous community, from the schools of the second and successive children. There are more than 50 proposals in the investment speech and I come to submit, to the House's decision, to the end. Look, ladies and gentlemen, I repeat — as at the end of the previous intervention — that I come here to ask you for your confidence. But above all, since I may not get the confidence of you — I hope to have the confidence of the majority group — I say I come here to ask for help. Because despite having been twelve years in the Government I am perfectly aware of the situation we are going to face, which I will face, from next Saturday when, as everything seems to indicate, I can take possession as President of Galicia. And what we've got in front of us won't be easy, I know. And that's why I'm trying not to do just an investment speech, but to try to put and contextualize what we're going to do in the legislation. If we think the whole thing is wrong, we're not going to make a proper diagnosis. And that's why I gave them my vision of what we've done, what we've achieved, and where we're from. And you'll understand that it could be a much simpler investment speech, and come here to say the four considerations, respond with great interest to the issues you want and vote on. But I thought at the moment we had to make a great effort to realize what our proposals are during the pandemic, that we had to make a great effort to tell the families that we were probably not up to the circumstances at the beginning of the education course and that we were probably able to do the best things; especially if we had a protocol that we were pursuing, because it was a fundamental protocol for the country and because we thought we were going to run each one for its place, regardless of what happens in the country, it's something wrong. We can now get press headlines, but what will happen before the first outbreak in a class? We still don't have an agreement in Spain today to realize when a school unit is left out of class, because even today the central government doesn't want to talk about when, where and how many infected people — and where the infected people — would give way to abandon or dislodge a class or a whole school. Don't you think that this is worth a serious reflection and not going around saying that I'm going to hire no one and I don't know how many if we can probably or regrettably have less school hours than the past course? Is this really not a theme that is solid enough and serious enough to talk about? And that's why I tried to move that message, and that's why I'm here to expand the understanding there was in the polls. Understanding in the polls would be enough to govern, absolutely enough. We are, or will be, the government with more electoral support from Spain. It would be enough with this sentence to end the investment speech, but that's not it, it's not using 48% of the votes or most of the votes for the fourth consecutive and enlarged time to try to get that majority to fail or not to take into account what the opposition proposes. And that's why I invite you to make proposals. And that's why I said it, and I repeat it, that I want to count on trade unions and businessmen, and that's why we're going to try to improve and activate social dialogue. And I said I want to count on the professionals, the best in all sectors, the automotive sector, the textile sector, the conservation sector, the fisheries sector, the slate and the stone sector, the naval sector, with all the professionals, and concretely how we can use European funds and move on to a digital economy and a circular economy. And that's why I asked for and I'll continue to ask for the collaboration of the municipalities, because the municipalities are key, because they have competences and they have responsibilities. And when someone wants to invest a euro in Galicia, a mayor, a councilman, a president of the Union, has to prioritize any investment in the city. And for that we need licenses, and for that we need permits; and for that we don't need to be pending a license, a license or an authorization in any public administration. And I want to count on the Government of Spain because it's my government. I'll make it available to the President of the Government next Saturday because he's the President of the Government of Spain. And that's why I ask that president to be also loyal and constructive with Galicia as Galicia is loyal and constructive with the central government. And that's why I asked you from the beginning to do a reactivation commission. [[Applause]] The cameras were dissolved. We were building a recovery plan with EUR 3,000 million, a social plan, an educational plan, a cultural plan, a tourist plan, we were giving 60 million loans for the harvest, we were rebuilding the country with the dissolved House and yet working and giving everything we could give at that time. And that reactivation commission is for us to share, but we have to share the diagnosis, because if we don't, we're going to get the wrong treatment. And that's why it's so important that our history, our clinical and economic history, is shared. Because if you don't, gentlemen, the treatment we're going to implement won't have the effects we're pursuing. Ladies and gentlemen, we're not always going to do what you say, of course. Why? Because we have a mandate to fulfill. But of course, if we always listen to what you want to move us. And we won't always be able to say yes to everything, we won't be able to say yes to everything, because often we won't have the money to do it and other times the priorities that you set will not be the same as we do. But what I can assure you is that we'll explain the reasons whenever you make any proposals and we can't handle it. And we're not always going to agree, of course, but I do ask that we maintain respect, because that will be fundamental. If this legislation is the legislate to regain parliamentary respect, to regain respect for a democratic government, that the Government respects democratic opposition and that democratic opposition respects the majority group of the House, we are sure to be moving on the right path and not going back, as we have done in previous legislates. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, as Mrs Pontón said, there are too many families who have lost a loved one, too many families who have not even been able to send him away; there are too many families who live in distress and who don't know if they're going to work next month and there are others who already know that they won't work; there are too many families who suffer the devastating consequences of an economic crisis that we still don't know with all their intensity. Let us always give them the respect they deserve and make ourselves worthy of trust the 75 women and men we make up this House, make ourselves worthy of trust through the respect I propose we keep among ourselves. And I want to start by saying that if I'm ever in touch with the circumstances, I'll apologize, but what I'm asking for is respect between the parliamentarians, and between the groups and the government. And after trying to explain the government program, after trying to share a diagnosis — which is not shared, at least to a large extent, but which is our diagnosis — I can assure you that I have tried to answer the questions that were being addressed here. And allow me to finish by addressing the Greeks and the Greeks, who are justly the ones who put us all here. First of all, I want to tell the Greeks and the Greeks that this will happen and that the good days will come back. Let us all continue to live up to the ratios, to the public health recommendations, to take care of all of us, and to the best of their ability, to continue to act in the sincere manner in which we act during the first wave of the pandemic. They know the Greeks who have a good health service. Don't be suspicious of him. They have excellent professionals, excellent urchinciologists, excellent killed, excellent specialists in infectious diseases, excellent internalists, excellent primary care doctors and, of course, an excellent nursing staff and nursing assistants. I'll keep talking cruelly, I'll keep saying things like I see them. We will continue to talk, unfortunately, about deaths, contagions and restrictive measures. And we will adopt all those we consider appropriate, all of them! — explaining them, of course, to the mayors as the first representatives of the people, those whom the clinical committee of the Galician Health Service, after the care and clinical debate we have, considers it appropriate to move. But in time I'll keep working so I can ever tell the Greeks that the pandemic is over. That's the first question I want to tell this people. Secondly, I want to tell the Greeks that today suffer the most from the economic and social consequences of this pandemic that we are here and that we are here above any other circumstance. Could you — or would it be easier — dedicate yourself to something else? Probably. Could one not risk getting out of political life after an electoral defeat? You too. But here we are, here we are, and we're going to work every day. Galicia is characterized by two questions. The first is the solidarity of the Greeks, who learned it secularly — and much more in emigration. Also because we've never been given anything, we're not used to big gifts, big investments, pre-rite times of the dictatorship, or democratic times. And that's why, as we know what a euro costs, we're standing here insisting that we're going to be able to go ahead. [[Applause]] And thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, I want to keep a record of the Journal of Sessions, Members of the Bureau, Mr. President, of my confidence in all the Greeks and Greeks and my thanks for their trust. As you can imagine, it's not easy to express to one who is supposed to be president of the board for three continuous legislations, and much less to be president of the board probably in a fourth continued legislation. I'm sure the answer to that trust can only make me available to everyone, from the first to the last Greek in the country, from the first child or child to the first, grandmother or grandpa. I, like all of you here, am one more Greek, one more Greek who loves Galicia without exception. And I'm a Greek man who wants the Greeks who choose their life, who decide where they want to go, where they want to work and what they want to dedicate to. I have the immense honor of living in Galicia and dedicating myself to Galicia. And, therefore, allow me to conclude by saying: Galicia, Galicia, Galicia and, for the fourth time, Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Nuñez Feijóo. The vote will take effect at 6.45 p.m., at 7 p.m. So let's suspend the session until that hour, when they will be summoned through the bells.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u35	Good afternoon. Let's restart the session. We shall then proceed to the vote for the election of the President of Galicia. Close the doors, please. The vote shall take place in accordance with the procedures set out above. The Secretary will then draw the name of the honourable Member or the honourable Member from whom the vote will begin. As you know, the members of the Government in office and more of the Bureau of the House will vote at the end, and will finish the vote with the presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u36	Number 35. Pérez López, Daniel.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u37	The vote will start with the name you have now chosen, Mr. Daniel Pérez López. To that end, I ask the secretary to make the call for the vote, recalling that the answers to the vote are "yes", "no" or "abstention."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u38	Pérez López, Daniel.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u39	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u40	Pérez López, Noelia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u41	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u42	Pontón Mondelo, Ana.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u43	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u44	Prado del Río, Paula.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u45	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u46	Presas Berganginos, Noa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u47	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u48	Puy Fraga, Pedro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u49	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u50	Zas complaints, Mercedes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u51	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u52	King Varela, José Manuel.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u53	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u54	Rios Santmé, Paulo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u55	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u56	Rivas Cruz, Xose Luís.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u57	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u58	Tato Wheel, Ovidio.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u59	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u60	Rodil Fernández, Olalla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u61	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u62	Rodríguez Dacosta, Maria del Carmen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u63	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u64	Rodríguez Miranda, Antonio.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u65	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u66	Rodríguez Rumbo, Matilde Begoña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u67	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u68	Sanz Arias, Cristina.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u69	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u70	Dry Garcia, Martín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u71	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u72	Suárez Sarmiento, Maria Elena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u73	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u74	Tabares Pérez Piñeiro, Iago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u75	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u76	Tellado Filgueira, Miguel Ángel.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u77	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u78	Tortado Quintela, Julio.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u79	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u80	Vázquez Domínguez, Sandra. Mr. Pedro Puy Fraga voted for delegation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u81	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u82	Vega Pérez, Daniel.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u83	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u84	Friar Verea, Borja.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u85	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u86	Belares Rodríguez, Maria Isaura.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u87	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u88	Aira Díaz, Maria del Carmen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u89	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u90	Beyond Castro, Gabriel.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u91	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u92	Álvarez Martínez, Luis Manuel.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u93	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u94	Amigo Díaz, Maria Incarnation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u95	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u96	Orange Fernández, Pablo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u97	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u98	Arias Rodríguez, Raquel.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u99	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u100	Armada Pérez, José Antonio.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u101	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u102	Balseiro Orol, José Manuel.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u103	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u104	Bará Torres, Xoese Luís.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u105	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u106	Knight Míguez, Gonzalo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u107	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u108	Candia López, Maria Elena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u109	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u110	Carballo Paez, Ramón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u111	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u112	Peaceful career, Iria.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u113	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u114	Castro García, Daniel.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u115	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u116	Castro Rey, Paloma.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u117	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u118	Touris Colors, José Manuel.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u119	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u120	Díaz Mouteira, Maria Sol.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u121	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u122	Díaz Varela, Noa Susana.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u123	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u124	Fernández Alfonso, Ramon.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u125	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u126	Fernández Gómez, Alexandra.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u127	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u128	Fernández Prado, Martín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u129	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u130	Fernández-Tapias Núñez, Marta Maria.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u131	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u132	Francisco Rivera, Juan Carlos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u133	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u134	Gallego Sanromán, Maria Leticia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u135	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u136	González Albert, Maria. Vote Ana Pontón Mondelo for delegation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u137	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u138	González Iglesias, Maria do Carme.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u139	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u140	Lourenzo Sobral, Manuel Antonio.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u141	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u142	Murillo Solis, Maria Guadalupe.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u143	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u144	New Churches, Marta.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u145	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u146	Otero Rodríguez, Patricia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u147	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u148	Peace Couñago, José Alberto.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u149	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u150	Pérez Fernández, Rosana.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u151	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u152	Pérez López, Álvaro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u153	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u154	Quintana Carballo, Rosa Maria.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u155	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u156	González Vázquez, José.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u157	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u158	Garcia Martínez, Fabiola.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u159	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u160	Vázquez Almuínña, Jesus.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u161	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u162	Rodríguez González, Román.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u163	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u164	Pomar Tojo, Carmen María.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u165	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u166	Count López, Francisco José.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u167	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u168	Vázquez Mourelle, Ethel María.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u169	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u170	Vázquez Mejuto, Maria Angeles.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u171	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u172	Martinez García, Valeriano.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u173	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u174	Valenzuela Wheel, Alfonso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u175	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u176	Nuñez Feijóo, Alberto.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u177	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u178	Ortega Otero, Marina.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u179	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u180	Porro Martínez, María Corina.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u181	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u182	Prado Cores, María Montserrat.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u183	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u184	Calvo Pouso, Diego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u185	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u186	Santalices Vieira, Miguel Ángel.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u187	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u188	Have all the Members and Members voted? There's no one left. [[Pause.]] The votes cast shall be 75; the votes in favour 42; the votes against 33. Having obtained the absolute majority, I call Mr. Alberto Núñez Feijóo President of the Council of Galicia. Good luck.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-03-DSPG003.u189	The election shall be communicated to your Majesty El-Rey, in accordance with Article 18 of Law 1/1983 of 22 February, of the rules governing the Union and its presidency. The session is up. Good afternoon, everyone.
