ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u1	Good morning. We continue the session with the sixth item on the agenda. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Gonzalo Caballero Miguez, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the position of the Government of Greece regarding the opening of a disciplinary file to the head of gynecology of the parish of the Hospital Comarcal de Verín
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u2	Whenever you like, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. My first words today for a historic day in which we are attending the restoration of the Peace of Meirás to the whole of citizenship. It's a historic day of celebration, of recovery of democratic memory, a fact that has to accompany in reconstructing the country's best history, and also condemning everything that Francoquism has to do. All congratulations to associations, movements and administrations working for democratic memory in front of any other scenario! [[Applause]] Mr. President-in-Office of the Council, Mr. Feijóo, last year, just on this date, the Government of the Council of Galicia you chaired has tried to close the wall of Verín. You were talking about the low birth rate in that parlor, you were talking about the loss of professional expertise, or you were pointing out that by safety and quality of the service, you should close that parlor. You yourself found a People's Party in Ourense that gave them back, rectified them, and there was a massive mobilization of public health defenders under the slogan "Virin doesn't close" that you had to retreat. In December they began to retreat, and in January they announced that reopening. And, just in a national newspaper in El País, there was a certain chronicle that began in this way: ""It wasn't the famous lack of expertise among gynecologists for attending few births, it wasn't even just that Ourense pediatricians didn't want to move 75 kilometers each time a woman gave birth. It was a wrong political decision that chose to bring citizenship closer to service rather than to the service of citizenship in order to reduce costs and with serious risks to people's lives"—so the chief gynecology of the Comarcal Hospital of Verín, Javier Castrillo, the announcement made this Saturday by the Junta of Galicia.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh A year later we met the worst face of the People's Party, the face of reprisal, the face of purgatory, the face of political revenge against a public health professional who defended the neighborhood of Verín and who was right. You open a file to a public health professional when you had to file it to yourself for trying to close the neighborhood of Verín. [[Applause]] There is in that line, Mr. Feijóo, a succession of continuous lies, a succession of continuous lies that you continue to maintain when he says textually at the end of a Council of Galician Union: "There is an error, not a disciplinary record, it is a complaint from a pediatrician about a gynecologist to understand... etc." Mr. Feijó, you're wrong. It's a file. The file is here, the file has a number, the file is started, it's opened by the general technical secretary of the Galician board. [[Mr. Knight Miguez shows a document.]] There's a file to be sent. A file of what you, Mr. Feijóo, are the political responsible. He's the political leader of this purge. It is a file that has political intent, because the pediatrician himself, when asked in the same file for what happens, answers: "Who gave the transfer of the writing in which the facts of this information reserved are described?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh And he answers to the pediatrician: "To the management, through my head of service. The report at that time was not made on its own initiative, it was my chief of staff, who spoke with Management and asked me to do so." There's a file against what you say. There's an opening of a file for the instruction of council officials appointed by you. You're the political responsible for opening that file. And you owe Verín, to public health, to those we defend the godfather of Verín and to the chief of gynecology a respect.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u4	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u5	He's a professional who has the recognition of the People's Party in Verín and Monterrey, who for twenty years has practiced professionally, according to his colleagues at the PP, without any complaints for twenty years in his professional and personal honorability. We're asking him to come back. A year ago, Mr. Feijóo, took his way back to the Parish of Verín, and we ask him to defend the defenders of public health, to demand and to stop a process of file which is a reprisal, which is a purge that Galicia does not deserve. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u6	Thank you, Mr. Knight. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Certainly amazes, haunts on occasion, what you can come to say and do for a party interest. I say it's amazing because it surprises everyone as you can twist, how you can manipulate and how you can lie in a daily session and in a parliament. Politicians who come to this model are politicians who are doing a terrible service to politics. And they are politicians who are continually and constantly questioning the independence of professionals. Everything has a limit. To speak of reprisals, revenge, purges, a democratic state, a public administration, a democratic government and a parliament is regrettable. I know he doesn't care what I'm going to tell him, he doesn't care at all. He's going to keep twisting and manipulating reality. I might not answer you, but I'm a Democrat. Yes, I am a Democrat because I am the Government, the president of the democratic government of Galicia, Your Honor. [[Murmurs.]] I'm a Democrat because I'm here thanks to democracy. [[Applause]] And I'm a Democrat and I respect this House even though you don't respect it. I respect health professionals even if you don't respect them. And I respect that Verín gynecologist, the Verín pediatrician and the medical inspector. Ladies and gentlemen, stop using professionals in such a torturing way. Ladies and gentlemen, a professional, a pediatrician, informs his superiors of what she perceives as an disrespectful and disrespectful treatment of a fellow verin gynecologist in front of a family. And, in the face of that accusation — according to which I am informed — you can tell me that, if you consider it appropriate, you can urge prior information — something you urge in writing. And, after that complaint, what is simply concrete is the instructor to make that previous information. And that instructor, a medical inspector, receives no instruction from anyone, Mr. Knight. You don't believe in independence from the medical inspection in Galicia? Do you think the medical inspector is going to do what he tells him to say? It's not knowing the Medical Inspectorate or how the Medical Inspectorate works, and it's again manipulating the professionals of the Galician Medical Inspectorate. You manipulate the pediatrician, manipulate the medical inspector and manipulate the gynecologist. Leave the professionals alone! Let them act according to their regulations and obligations! What do you intend to move me, Mr. Knight? What you're trying to move me is that, if a pediatrician considers a professional treat unconsidered, do you have to tell him to shut up? Really, what you're here to transfer is that you shouldn't in any case accept that complaint and file it? You're here to say that there are medical inspectors who don't educate according to their right and their denotological quality? Exactly, Mr. Knight, what is your concern? Should any higher instance hide the complaint from the pediatrician? But, Mr. Knight, there are more than twenty disciplinary files initiated last year. Does it mean that everyone is a file against someone who is called upon by a malicious authority, which is intended to disrupt the functioning of the health system?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u8	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u9	Look, Mr. Knight, it makes me feel like you don't even know the Medical Inspectorate or know how it works or know they're independent officials. And you don't even know the procedural moment in which you find the file; which, by the way, seems to have you and I don't. Not me, Your Honor, never enter the records of the Medical Inspectorate, not even when I was Secretary General of the Council. [[Strong murmurers.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u10	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u11	Look, if you wanted to tell the truth, I would say that there is a complaint of a pediatrician, that this complaint is transferred to the Inspectorate, that the Inspectorate initiates a confidential information and that the inspector has to decide at this time — option one — whether the file is filed or — option two — whether the file is opened. What are you talking about, Mr. Knight?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u12	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u13	A little respect for the country's health and a little respect for health professionals! Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u14	Thank you, President. Mr. Caballero's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u15	Mr. Feijó, we ask you a little bit of respect for the truth. His government is guarded in the case of Vern by the succession of continuous lies; by the succession of escalated lies that you said day by day correcting your own lies. First it couldn't be opened because they didn't have the expertise of the gynecologists, and we're seeing how the paridary still works normally, professionally, and capablely. Then they pointed out that there were no professionals, and then the professionals showed up. Now you're turning back on your own lies and your own versions, because the Verin People's Party itself says: "The professional and personal integrity of Castrillo, with more than two decades of exercise in the medical profession at the Verin Hospital, is beyond doubt." You say we leave them alone. That's what you have to do, leave the health professionals alone to defend public health. [[Applause]] And of course we don't trust this government or its practices in everything that has to do with the neighborhood of Verín. You should be apologizing every day, because reality has overwhelmed him, it has shown that the parent can work. And it hurts you, because you had to lose that battle in a decision to cut public services. And when you talk here, you're recognizing, Mr. Feijóo, who has information, who talks to the professionals themselves and to the people who are behind the file. He's counting on how it matters. The file wakes up, Mr. Feijó, because it has a political motivation. You said there was no file, and there's a file. I have here the front page of the file. You apologize for your comments after the meeting of the Board of Governors. [[Mr. Knight Miguez shows a document.]] There's intentionality, because in a digital journal it's published part of the file, where the pediatrician pointed out that he opened the file because they gave him instructions to do so. She's not a pediatrician who goes there. The chief of staff told him, who is the head of the health area, to be named by you, Mr. Feijóo. You're responsible. [[Applause]] And have a little respect for this House, Mr. Feijóo, when he comes to talk to her. Because you think that, because you have the majority and you have the votes, you can do whatever you want. Votes give the government but they don't give the reason or give the democratic quality. And you also cheated here the other day, at parliamentary headquarters, when in your last speech you said that in Verín the citizens had already spoken, that they had 48.5% of the votes and that they had to tell the truth. He even cheated on it, he even lied on it. Because, Mr. Feijóo, the People's Party had 41% of the votes in Verín, 11 points less than four years ago. And by the way, 55% of the voters in Verín voted for the forces of progress that we were behind the defense of the parent. That's the reality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u16	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u17	You're going to use the mantra that "the electoral result all allows me." I ask you for democratic quality, I ask you about health professionals, I ask you not to be behind files that seek reprisals, that remove the file that has intentionally opened your advice and the head of the health area that you have named and that is of your utmost confidence. Don't follow that escalation of lies.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u18	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u19	...not in Verín or Ourense or Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u20	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u21	For public health, he defends the chief of Vienna's gynecology, makes him a monument...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u22	Thank you, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u23	...make him a badge and turn back on his reprisal in an obscene policy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u24	Thank you, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u25	...which attacks health professionals.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u26	Thank you, Mr. Knight, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u27	More gynecologists and less reprisals.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u28	Thank you. To close the question, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u29	Thank you very much. In fact, with the health situation that we are living in Spain and with the pandemic that is affecting all the West, what we want to be general secretary of a party is appropriate to these kinds of questions is, at least, surprising. Certainly, I was wrong, Your Honor. The data I spent with the group was 48%. 48% is in the Verín Judiciary Party — and, by the way, all the women in that judicial party are going to give birth to Verín. Exactly in the Town Hall of Verín is 41%. You're right. But why don't you say you pulled 22%? Oh, good! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Did you guys come up? No, no, if you have done a great election result, there is absolute strength and great agreement of all parliamentary forces! [[Strong murmurers.]] That's why you're where you are. That's why you're where you are. [[Murmurs.]] Truly this is a rather immature matter, Mr. Knight. By saying all the nonsense you say is impossible to follow. Because now it turns out he's asking me to leave a disciplinary record without effect. But do you think I can and I have the powers to tell a medical inspector what to do? Are you telling the pediatrician that he's a person with no responsibility and that he initiates a complaint because he's being sent? But is there really a better way to disqualify a professional? You say this pediatrician is sent... but please, do you think there's an option that starts a complaint against another fellow because they send him? But is it true that you keep this nonsense at parliamentary headquarters? [[Murmurs.]] I am not going in, Your Honor, because already in the previous session you came to say this and we were celebrating the Day of Equality. If it turns out now that a pediatrician, by being a pediatrician, says you follow his superiors' instructions to file a complaint about the unconsidered treatment of another professional, it is regrettable. But if I'm used to almost everything, Your Honor! Look, his predecessors said that this political party, that this government, paid doctors from the Galician Health Service to raise them. It's in the Journal of Sessions. You, during the previous elections — not in these, in the previous elections — issued pamphlets — the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party — which said what the People's Party was going to charge for an income, for a diagnostic test, in case we won the elections: 206 euros for a consultation, 500 euros per day of hospitalization. You took part in the biggest manipulation you remember in Galicia telling Vigo citizens that the Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital is a private hospital. You were there and now you are here, Mr. Knight, again manipulating the country's health. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But why not respect health and professional quality? Leave Verín's gynecologist alone, who has all the respect for the government. Leave the pediatrician alone, who has every right not to be treated thoughtlessly. And let the medical inspector, which he's only going to do, option 1, file a fee if he considers it appropriate, or option 2, decide the file file. That's the way it is, Mr. Knight. Believe me, this is neither Ferraz nor the headquarters of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party nor is it a problem of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party against another Socialist Party in a city of Galicia. No, this is the Health Inspectorate, Your Honor. Here things are decided by the inspectors and nothing else, neither the president nor the advisor nor the secretary.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u30	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u31	Let this pediatrician, do what she deems appropriate, let the xinecologist of Verín continue to work — that we now have pediatricians — and continue to work rigorously in public health. Look, you'd have forgotten that on two occasions in the Official Journal of Galicia we've called pediatricians' squares for the parish priest of Verín to believe what your respect for the truth, Mr. Caballero. I told you once: The problem of a politician is not to lie...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u32	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u33	...the problem is that he doesn't even know when he's lying. Nothing else and thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u34	Thank you. Da Ana Belén's question Pontón Mondelo, from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the forecasts of the Greek Government regarding the design of a strategy for Galicia to receive the necessary funding for economic reactivation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u35	Da Ana Belén's question Pontón Mondelo, from G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u36	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Feijóo, we are at an exceptional moment when Galicia's future is at stake, and a part of that future will be written with the only funds currently available for reconstruction, with that extraordinary fund Next Generation. I could use my intervention to criticize your lack of leadership and strategy in this matter, but I won't. I won't do it because I think we're still in time to avoid Galicia being discriminated against. We can still put in place a country strategy to prevent us from losing this train as well. If we allow the centralization of funds to be imposed, Galicia will lose. You will win Madrid, you will win the Mediterranean axis, you will win some big cities, but Galliza will lose. And the question is very simple: shall we allow it? I want to make it very clear what the answer to BNG is. It seems to us an unacceptable framework and we must break with that vicious circle of discrimination and centralism. And for that, what I propose to you is a common front in this Parliament to achieve direct management of the reactivation funds; in other words, the decentralization of that fund and to decide from here, with transparency, with participation and with agreement, how to invest the part that is ours to lay the foundations of Galicia for the future. [[Applause]] If Europe considers such funds to be an effective territorial distribution and affects the State 140 billion euros, that same criterion must be applied within the State. I insist, let us make sure that Galicia receives the part that corresponds to these reconstruction funds. And, frankly, we won't do it, Mr Feijóo, if the Government of Greece is dedicated to being a manager of the interests of the multinationals quoted in Ibex 35. On the contrary, what we need is to define Galicia's strategic projects of the 21st century. [[Applause]] And since the BNG we've proposed five axes of action. First, you have to boost traditional, transform-oriented productive sectors and create added value. Secondly, we need to boost a strong industrial sector that includes a fair energy transition. Thirdly, we have to lay the foundations of a green economy based on science, research and R & D. Fourth, we have to modernize and scan the small and medium-sized company, we have to invest in the medium-sized company of our country, in the autonomous ones, which are an essential part of employment. And finally, we have to defend a Galician with social welfare and, for that, public health, public education, a new model of care and a defence of gender equality, a real equality for women. [[Applause]] Mr. Feijóo, I hope for once I hear you in a spirit of building, because Galicia cannot miss the train from these funds of economic and social reactivation. Because if we lose them, that's gonna give Galicia a door to the future.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, ask yourself if we have a strategy in relation to the next generation funds and the rest of the funds that the Government of Europe can devote to the pandemic. No doubt, yes. To have a strategy, we need three elements. The first is the preparation of strategy; the second is the reflection on the context in which we have to move; and the third is the action, what we believe we can do and what we must do. Certainly, Your Honor, we are ready. And we are prepared, among other things -- and I say it with absolute cordiality -- because we haven't given much attention to BNG in economic policy. In fact, Galicia is a healthy community. If we had heeded BNG and other political forces, Galicia would now have nearly 6 billion debt more than we have — if we had just half the debt of the rest of the autonomous communities. And as we have not heeded that economic policy of the BNG and the Socialist Party, today Galicia is a solvency community that is prepared and has enough time to try to improve — even with public debt — its investment capacities. The second question was reflection. What's going on? We were loyal to the central government, listening to it, going to the conferences of presidents and actually believing that autonomous communities would have a relevant role in the funds. And what do we realize? We realize that it is not, that this central government is the government that owes us 170 million euros of the negative liquidations, that it is the government that owes us 200 million euros of the monthly amount of VAT and it is the government that approves two budgets, one of them without parliamentary processing and another — it seems that immediately, with the approval of the Courts — the budget of less investment in Galicia in the last fifteen years. What was surprising to us, Mrs Pontón — and I say it cordially too — is that this government is ruling Spain, among other things, thanks to its vote. You sign a legislative agreement, they come to the House, they tell us that all the traps that Galicia has will be overcome, and now it turns out, Your Honor, that you come to ask me for a common front. Will the Socialist Party be on that front or not? You here in the House say the Socialist Party does not respect the interests of Galicia and outside the House governs in all institutions with the Socialist Party. That's really a little complex to realize. But, in any case, I keep your proposal. Look, Your Honor, talking about primary sectors, industrial sectors, green economy, digitization and well-being are exactly the main lines of our plan. Welcome, therefore. We have a commission, we keep working on the commission. We have just approved a budget project with more than 100 million euros for this Parliament and its political forces to tell us what they think can be done with these 100 million euros and also which projects from the total of 108 projects and more than 9,000 million euros of investment can be prioritized. Do you know what our proposals are? I think they're consistent with yours. First of all, these funds must act as social cohesion funds between the regions that make up the States in Europe, and must dominate depopulation, the demographic challenge, the dispersal in rural areas, the unfinished industrial transition — which is the problem that is closing our industries — and also the levels of income per capita under the average of the states —. I think they're coincidences. This is our position. If in this position you agree with the People's Party and not with the Socialist Party, which is your partner, welcome. We have no more interest than to accept, Mrs. Pontón. We have no commitment to anyone, nor to the Socialist Party. If you break your commitment to the Socialist Party, we can probably do things in common. And if you want to continue with your commitment to the Socialist Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u39	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u40	...critique the Socialist Party and then say they want to make proposals with the People's Party, there's no problem, Your Honor. We owe Galicia, we don't owe the Socialist Party. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u41	Thank you, President. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u42	Mr. Feijó, I don't think you understood anything. And, of course, this country needs something more than a low-level policy that we start to put on the table what we're playing in the future. [[Applause]] It really is almost a joke of bad taste that you come here to talk about debt, when you tripled this country's public debt without improving health and education. By the way, Mr. Feijóo, if Vigo's hospital is not private, how could it be now being sold to another investment fund? [[Applause]] Tell him, Mr. Feijóo! [[Applause]] Of course, it also seems to me a sarcasm that you come here to criticize the BNG for defending the interests of this country in all institutions, as well as in the Congress of Deputies. Because -- yes, yes -- Galician discrimination in the state is not born with the Government of Sánchez, and that is consistent with the state parties, which say something here and the opposite in Madrid. BNG will always defend the interests of this country. [[Applause]] We, of course, are not going to shut up when it comes to defending Galicia. We're not going to do what you did when Rajoy was lying and cheating, that the only thing we had with the president of the board was a continuous "yes, baboon." [[Applause]] But, look, there's a lot at stake for the future of this country, and I guess you won't say in this House that a great deal of country agreement has to be reduced by less than 1% of the investment that the Galician Union has for the next year. That's not a big deal of country, that's a ton of hair. That is not to believe that we are playing the future and that, of course, this country needs much more. Look, the Reactivation Commission has a role, but it's just that right now if you're defining what the management model of these extraordinary funds is going to be, and what we see is that you're on cross-arms. And right now there's a line on which you have to decide which side you're on: whether you're going to continue to defend a centralized view of the background or whether you're going to put Galicia's interests on the table. And for that, first of all, it must be claimed that the territorialization of this fund — the European Union shares the fund among the States, why is it not distributed among the autonomous communities? — and secondly, a direct management of that fund and that it is done with transparency — because, look, you say you have a plan that is magnificent, but you don't know it because you don't send documentation to this Parliament, it is an X dossier, Mr Feijóo. [[Applause]] And when we're playing the future of this country -- I insist -- the Next Generation funds are at present the only extraordinary funds for economic reactivation. And we're seeing that Galicia is demolished and that it has gross weaknesses from the economic point of view. Some responsibility will have its government. You can come here...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u43	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u44	...and finally, Mr. President—to tell us that with his propaganda the problems of this country are solved. But that's not worth it, because what's going to provoke us to the superiority with which you're acting and the contempt of the tending hand that we give you from the BNG, unfortunately, is to lead us to the fact that Galicia also loses that train.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u45	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u46	And that means taking a lead in the future of the people of this country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u47	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u48	It's irresponsible, Mr. Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Close the question by Mr. President of the Board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u50	Mrs. Pontón, I'm glad you hold my hand. I don't know if the neck or anywhere else, but you'll see, Your Honor, what's your heel to this proposal for a pact? [[Murmurs.]] Look, it's not a low-ranking policy to remember that the Socialist Party rules with you in institutions. But you really mind this? It's easy to fix. Let me rule the most voted list, and that's it. You'd be referring to a more direct democracy. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, Mrs. Pontón, I understand your placard, the BNG card in the state's general budgets, I understand it. I understand this perfectly, it is the budget with the most investment and filling in of European funds and public debt — of deficit, that is yes — and it is the lowest budget for Galicia in the last fifteen years. Investment is increased by 53% by the Central Government, which you have supported, and for Galicia is the worst in the last fifteen years. Good paper, Mrs. Pontón! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You came here with your great billing pact and we were going to solve the problems of infrastructure, of traffic on the highway, we were going to solve the financing system, and now it turns out that BNG had to publicly admit that President Rajoy's budgets were better for Galicia than his partner's assumptions, Mr. Sánchez. [[Applause]] Look, Mrs Pontón — with all due respect — you wanted to say that you looked like Mr Rufian. And now it seems, Your Honor, that you are conforming to the likeness of Mrs. Arrimadas. Not us, Your Honor. We have no commitment to the Socialist Party, we have a commitment to Galicia. And it seems that you represent Galicia and the rest of us don't represent the country. It is to exclude most Galician people from the legitimate and democratic representation of the country. If you want to work for Galicia, work once. And if you have to break your alliances with the Socialist Party, do it, but don't pay them with me, if I haven't done anything to you, Mrs. Pontón! I didn't mess with you, I don't do anything to you! [[Laughter]] If you rule with the Socialist Party so richly and leave the room and come together to continue ruling, and now you criticize each other and even tell me to make a common front against the Socialist Party, that is, against your partner...! [[Murmurs.]] It's a surprise, Mrs. Pontón! [[Murmurs.]] I have no problem working on projects for the country. See, the primary sector, the timber sector, the forestry sector, the textile fibre sector, is a major sector from an economic and employment point of view. The circular economy projects, no doubt. It's a great sector of energy for the primary sector. No doubt the AVE to Lugo, Your Honor. Now it turns out they bid 100 million AVE to Lugo. When it had to be finished, it's not started yet. Look, Your Honor, the Atlantic corridor, the railway of the outer port of the Coruña, the southern exit of Vigo, are strategic infrastructures for the country. [[Murmurs.]] You say 100 million euros that the government is making the opposition available to propose is something unusual. Look, I was four years head of the opposition and here they didn't even put 100 million euros or put 5,000 euros, Your Honor. And it turns out that it seems to you to be inappropriate. And there's a reactivating commission for you to implement your proposal, that you have no doubt that we will accept with great interest. But they carry out their proposals, they don't insult the government, they don't despise the democratic government of the country. Make your proposals. They tell us what their priority-oriented proposals are. Do you want to manage the funds? So do we.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u51	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u52	But it's good not to fool anyone. And, as you will understand, I'm not going to defend the Socialist Party here, but I think I must defend the truth. The funds are presented to the European Union by the Member States. It is therefore not a responsibility of the Government of Spain for the fact that the holders of the presentation of the funds are the Member States. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And secondly, don't manipulate, Mrs. Pontón, for the second time. The funds are 70,000 million euros. The rest is debt, not funds. I am indebted, which is a different matter. And now I wonder if we increase public debt when in every budget of the Autonomous Community you want to issue more public debt?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u53	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u54	Certainly, Your Honor...! [[Murmurs.]] Look, we're with the Open Reactivation Commission. Let's keep working. Are you all right, Mrs. Pontón? But please continue to practice with the Socialist Party the art of neither you nor you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u55	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u56	Your Honor, I don't approve of the budget with you, but I don't want to rule without you. That's, Your Honor, the new version of the BNG to Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u57	Thank you, President. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u58	But don't worry, I don't care if you're a member of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u59	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u60	That's your responsibility.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u61	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u62	If I invite you to keep working...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u63	Thank you, President. Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u64	...for the proper use of European funds. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u65	Thank you. We're still on the agenda. Let's go back to the second point, which is that of appearances. The first Vice-President and President's Adviser, Justice and Tourism, on his own request, to report on the evolution of the health emergency of the covid-19 in relation to the general forecasts and lines of action of his department
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u66	Mr. Alfonso Rueda Valenzuela, Vice-President of the Presidency, Justice and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I actually compare, on my own request, on behalf of the Government, to inform this House of the evolution of the health emergency arising from the curfew-19, in relation, firstly and logically, to the forecasts and actions of the department I am directing, but also about the joint action in some things I think are of interest to the Government of the Council of Galicia. Ladies and gentlemen, in these nine months of health crisis we have been through a lot of things and evolved by different situations. It was nine months, firstly, mourning for all the people who died — 1,287 in yesterday's data — that in many cases they could not even be dismissed as they would deserve by their families and therefore I believe that in all appearances it is obliged to make a reference, first, to these people who failed and also to send all their affections to their families. And it was also nine months of a lot of struggle and effort by many people; beginning, first of all, of course, by the health personnel, who have been fighting for nine months and who continue without giving a life for loss, with 50 people who remain in intensive care units and 321 hospitalized in Galicia -- they are also data yesterday. So let's also acknowledge all these health workers who continue to fight, just as the recognition for all the groups who, in a special way, have been fighting for these nine months, such as the professionals and professionals of Galician senior and disability residences, the state security forces and bodies, of course, the local police, the educational system staff, transport personnel, food logistics and, ultimately, all who in a special way — some of them especially in the first months of the pandemic — were absolutely fundamental. Nor should we forget, of course, the sacrifice of those collectives who are being particularly harmed — and I will refer to them in this appearance — by the consequences and measures that must be taken derived from the pandemic. I'm talking about the whole group of the hostel, children's leisure centers, nightlife and, ultimately, with different degrees of intensity but all of them very large, of all the professionals who dedicate themselves to tourism in Galicia. And I think that, as a last recognition, it is necessary to do so to the whole of Greek citizenship, despite the exceptions that unfortunately we still see and see, and that they are increasingly isolated and that there is less and less, fortunately. But unfortunately, there are still examples that are sometimes inexplicable. They're always inexplicable, but sometimes they're especially irresponsible some people who put us all at risk. But that cannot mislead the esteem of the German Government on the whole of citizenship, on the responsibility and sentinel of most citizens, which has allowed, for sure — one of the fundamental causes — that today we have better data than many other autonomous communities. Without a doubt it's good news that we have to move to an optimism, always very moderate and always very prudent but to a certain optimism, especially thinking about all the way we had to go. Speaking already of everything that has to do with the second wave, I remember that October 14 has already been restricted, by decision of the Greek Government, the groups to 10 people throughout Galicia, a week later the level 2 was decreed for the entire autonomous community, establishing further tougher measures, tougher restrictions, in some specific councils. Then the perimeter closures came, and today, which has already passed the bridge, I think it's a good new idea that we can start with the escalation process, that the closed hostel generally starts to resume its activity and that there are significant indicators that assess with all the prudence of the world, with all the prudence of the world, that we are on the right track. It dropped by 29% the number of cases, dropped by 28% the people who entered the hospitals, and also in the ICU the occupation dropped by a similar percentage, almost 30%. And if we want to make comparisons with other autonomous communities, we're between the third or fourth place among communities with lower incidence rates, both seven and fourteen days; we're still in the second position -- this is a very important data -- of lower percentage of bed occupancy in intensive care units and we're the second in lowest global hospital occupation, apart from intensive care units. So these are good data, which we are told is that we must continue to face this crisis and that we must continue to take action, and measures of silence, starting with the health field, in which we are performing a second full-fledged job of all the staff working in health centres. We went to the first autonomous community, in addition, to collaborate with the pharmacy offices in conducting antibody tests, in areas where it was very necessary for the high incidence of the virus - you're talking about the case of Ourense -. It has agreed - and, of course, it has agreed - with union representatives a plan of continence against the coward that will allow 1,200 contracts between six months and one year, and also with budgetary guarantees, which is how things have to be done for them to work. In 2021 budgets raise 115 million in order to maintain contracts - these reinforcement contracts - and to make new contracts; I hope it is not necessary, but, if necessary, there would be budgetary support for new reinforcement contracts in the health system. The budgets of 2021 also devote EUR 45 million to acquiring more PPE in primary and hospital care, EUR 18 million for laboratory material, so that we can continue to do more PCR and more diagnostic evidence, and a rise of more than 10%, specifically 13%, in so-called reinforced health services at this time. Also in senior homes in the last few weeks, the prevention and early detection capacity has been particularly strengthened. We replicated the frequency of PCR-cribs to the staff working in these centers. You used to know that they were done every 15 days, because from December they're done on a weekly basis. We put antigen tests at the disposal of all the Welsh residences and we practice a quintennial PCR seizure to users of residences where there are no cases, but, of course, they are very vulnerable places and therefore these 15-year-olds we think they are very necessary. These measures have also been adopted recently by the Council of Galicia, which is the creation of rapid intervention teams to act at the highest speed when the intervention of a residence is decided on practically immediately. The important thing here is the immediacy and professionalism of the teams that go there. In the educational field, after having spent a trimester certainly complicated - everywhere it was and, of course, in Galicia too - absolutely atypical - with reference to a normal quarter - about what would be a course principle that wasn't in a pandemic scenario, I think this was a challenge for the entire educational community, for everyone in general, and I think the figures speak of this challenge - also with all the prudence of the world - is being overcome I think properly. There was also an important budgetary support: EUR 162 million to meet the needs of the education system's covid; 94, in addition, dedicated specifically to the strengthening of human resources, with 2,300 new teachers and teachers who are part of the public education system in this reception scenario. We have created a "covid-auto" system to make rapid diagnostics in the educational field, and a part of the Contact Monitoring Centre is specially dedicated and specialized in tracking in the educational field. A virtual education plan was also put in place in front of the covid-19, so that, in the case of quarantine, in case of having to close some classrooms, in no case does the teaching activity cease and continue teaching. There are also virtual care teams for those children, students or students who have, for reasons of illness or for anything else, to be at home so that for a long time they can continue their education with these virtual care teams to the student. And it's also being done -- I said before -- with "cavid-auto" systems and other systems to do the tests quickly, the PCRs to the student community, where it's logical to think -- and so they detect, or can be detected, even though detection, fortunately, is low -- that there may be a greater number of asymptomatic carriers. Massive squats are being made in secondary schools; in the province of Pontevedra this process is almost already ending. In the field of justice, all autonomous communities with competences in the field of justice continue in collaboration - and I think this is an example of what needs to be done - with the Ministry of Justice for the implementation of measures in the judicial field derived from the cover-19: 2.4 million euros invested this year which has not yet been completed and 2.6 for the coming year for everything that has to do with the PPE, with the implementation of separation measures, with the strengthening of cleaning systems, etc.; ultimately, all of this has allowed cases to be detected today, indeed, but I believe in a level that allows them to continue to operate with the normality with which most judicial bodies in Galicia can operate at present. We're also going to make an important investment effort as far as Immelga is concerned, not only by making a new building, but, above all, by adapting all the autopsy rooms so that autopsy can be done when there are suspicions of respiratory transmission diseases, among which I'd be hiding. Until now they couldn't do it, and I think this is an important advance that demanded, in addition, health care as a support for their performance. We're also going to deploy the digital viewing rooms in 85% of the judicial organs and we're just completing the installation of videoconferencing systems, with all this, to avoid immediateness among people in the administration of justice and in the fight against the pandemic right now. We continue with this coordination which I referred to earlier with the State Administration and with the councils in the bodies established for that purpose: the Sacop, or the Operational Coordination Chamber, which convenes and directs the Director General of Emergency and Internal Affairs, which meets after the clinical committees to implement and lower the measures agreed by the Clinical Committee at each of its sessions; and then also the senior coordinating body, the Cecor, which presides and convenes the Government delegate. Just last Wednesday, before the bridge, we had a meeting in which we put together that need to continue transmitting information, the need to determine where the operations and surveillance of the state's security forces and bodies should be more affected; ultimately, the need to be able to continue coordinated while necessary, and at this point, without any doubt, is necessary. Here I want to make a special mention of the work that the Autonomic Police, the Assistant Police Unit, with nearly 60,000 specific performances, identifications, access controls, flow control, private party inspections... of course they're doing all state security forces and bodies as well as the Local Police, but, of course, as a unit dependent on the Galician Union, I want to make a special mention of the effort that the professionals of the Police Unit are making, of course, in very complicated circumstances. They keep lowering the troops, they're in just 380, when they had to be in 500. And I make a call again -- we do it continuously -- to the inescapable need -- always has been, but at this very moment of the pandemic much more -- to complete up to 500 autonomic police personnel. The bad news is, first of all, not to have any answer from the central government - and it will not be to ask for it every time we have occasion - and not to have any answer where we really have to have it, which is in the general budgets of the State, where there does not seem to be any prediction or mention, despite the verbal commitments and the good words of being able to complete the unity, which — I insist — remains necessary and essential at this time. With regard to collaboration with local authorities, I would like to express this agreement signed with the Galega Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, which will allow, once determined by the Advisory Council, the powers of each person in sanctioning the offences arising out of the vault, to be made available to 306 Greek municipalities in the possibility of handling the sanctions for non-compliance with the covid. Today there are almost 40 municipalities that have been addressed to the Galician Union saying they want this coordination and exercise of powers sanctioned by delegation to take place by the Galician Union. This with regard to cooperation and strictly health measures or directly derived from the health crisis, but there are undoubtedly also those that have to do with the economic and social crisis, which is becoming very strong in the context of restrictions and in the context of contraction of the economy derived from cowardice. So there are many vulnerable groups. They're all being, because we're all in greater or lesser measure affected by the coward, but undoubtedly there are collectives who are being very special and very intense. So small companies, micropemes and autonomouss are the first to be helped by administrations, and the Galician Union, of course, is doing so. All help lines are already known: EUR 84 million for self-employed and self-employed with or without employees and micropemes, and special help for the host's collective. Finally, we want to reach these 84 million euros - even now initial, expandable, if necessary - to 30,000 autonomous people and more than 10,000 micropemes, and the evidence of the need and opportunity for these aids is that since the period of applications has been opened it has been staggered, in two phases; they are all open, and in just three weeks more than 36,000 applications for these aid have already arrived. At the same time, the request deadline is already open, and there are already applications, direct loans, for self-employed persons and for small businesses, 10 million euros, soft credits from 3,000 to 500,000 to the maximum, seven years, including three missing for their return, with practically zero interest and, of course, to those who can also access the hostel, which, in fact, is already doing so. There are also specific actions for certain sectors especially affected, in addition to autonomous people and micropemes. I'm talking about public transport, with EUR 20 million allocated by the Galician Board to avoid breaking due to the lack of users by the coward; the maritime-fishing issue, with Plan Avantemar - EUR 77 million - and there are EUR 18 million recently approved to help producers of ornamental plant, cut flower, beef and wine. In short, these are primary sectors which are, at the moment, especially in terms of marketing, particularly affected by the prejudices arising from cod. Returning to the hospitality sector, without any doubt -- and we all agree -- when closed, they can't exercise -- right now with the escalation they're starting to do it, but for a while they couldn't -- their activity; therefore, they have to be the object of special help. And, in addition, within these 82 million, of the 63 people who can access and are accessing, along with autonomous people and micropemes - not specifically hosters - they have 17 million today devoted especially to this collective, with more flexible criteria, down the level of invoicing needed to access and with an account where they could reach the 9,200 euros of help, combining all the lines of help that I insist on, can access and are accessing. With this the Galician Union is placed at the headposts, without any doubt, among the autonomous communities that are helping the host sector, which everywhere - or almost everywhere - is suffering or suffered restrictions. To this specific aid of 17 million we have to add the 3 million euros more already called for the adaptation of their spaces; I am talking about the terraces and the acquisition of food packaging elements for food at home and for the collection on site. Finally, these actions are necessary to focus on activity as it must be being developed at the moment. In addition, you have to add the amounts devoted to night leisure, which have already been subject to request and are now being resolved object. If there were some amount left over from this call, it would immediately be increased to add to those already destined for the hospitality sector in general. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, they are aid to a particularly affected collective, and to the hands of the sector, in addition to - at least most - I believe that we are responding in time and form to a particularly damaged collective and therefore has all the right of the world to ask for and receive help. At the same time, I was referring not only to the hospitality sector, which is also tourism, but also to the tourism sector in general, which needs and is going to receive help from the Galician Union at this time, which is when you really have to receive them, when you need them most, and also with a forecast - in the budget of 2021 - to continue to do so until the tourist situation can resume the normal situation, which will undoubtedly do so, but, as at this time we don't know when we don't know what conditions regarding cadence, it is our obligation to make these shock plans, these help plans. [[Murmurs.]] I'm talking about both direct aid and incentives for consumption, indirect aid, which ultimately also results in tourism and hospitality professionals. In this sense, then I have a question put by the Socialist Party about travel agencies, but by the way, I will say that we will talk about a collective, by the way, especially damaged within the tourism sector, which needs lines of support. We are going to spend EUR 1.2 million on promoting cooperation between tour operators to create new packages and tourist products adapted to the situation of the pandemic, at least as long as the pandemic lasts; and you are also helping to contribute to the suffrage of security insurance that has to be used for travel agencies by the beginning of the year. So it's amounts that have to come up at a particularly difficult time, and there will be the Galician Union to help them. And we will also increase, even more than we did this year -- this year it was a million and a half euros -- but more than we will double, we will pass the aid to 3 million euros to tourist hostels, hotels and restaurants for local adaptation works not only to the situation of the pandemic, but they will be works of improvement that make, without any doubt, more accessible and more attractive and therefore with more business power, their sites when they can reopen and operate without any kind of restrictions. A special aid will also go to the spas, a sector especially affected at the moment by the suspension of the water canon, while this situation lasts. We will also do a special fincapé to enable more squares, from the Galician Union, for stays in spas, especially seeing as the whole tourist sector, but especially the bathing sector, has been strongly impacted by the suspension of the Imserso programmes. There were a lot of people, especially other autonomous communities, who went to the Greek seasides, and this program was suspended without any compensation from the state. Therefore, the Galician Union here will also make a special effort for the year that comes to target many more squares than it intended to compensate for this loss of Imserso squares by the Central Government. We will also help tourist-use housing reformulate and exploit the potential of new technologies, now much more, in this pandemic situation, so that we can continue to develop their business. We will also do a special fincapé next year, as I said earlier, in indirect incentives, in incentives for consumption, which ultimately benefit the professionals in the sector. I'm talking about the tourist bono especially. Today I have to say that the Tourist Bonus is true that it was born among certain criticisms at the time of the start, but today 98% of its possible applications are made. That is to say, it has become a successful program; now only the tourist establishments for whom it has been asked to operate have been activated, i.e. people in the health and socio-sanitary fields - i.e. 98% of its recipients -. Given the success of the next year, we will increase them; we will already equip the 2021 budget plan with more appropriations, up to 6 million, for these types of formulas, and for that we will call for the collaboration of both the Members of Parliament and the large companies who want their staffing to benefit from these incentives, to multiply the beneficial effect of this type of indirect measures. The same idea has the programme of Elixe Galicia: EUR 1.3 million for specific groups, to stimulate them, through co-financing, to make tourism consumption. We will also insist very much, ladies and gentlemen, on a concept that I believe we must all begin to assimilate, repeat and exercise, because, moreover, it must be true, which is the concept of Galicia as a secure destination, without any doubt. Security in tourism consumption will be something you're looking for very much, from now on; not immediately, this year 2021, but I think for many years. So, there's got to be the Galician Union, there it will be and there it is. We will approve a coronovirus insurance so that all tourists, all people coming to Galicia in this condition, have a safety in front of a possible contagion, and so that all expenses of accommodation, transport and medical expenses, both for them and for a companion, are perfectly covered and, therefore, have peace of mind and have no obstacle, no doubt, to come to Galicia because of some circumstance arising from a possible coronovirus infection. I believe that this is a powerful measure, a measure with which, as soon as the budget is in force -- now there will be a public contest -- we will be from the first communities -- especially thinking of the Xacobeo 2021 -- that it will be in force. We will continue to insist on the PassCovid application. Today it has 55,000 downloads and it's a very important measure for those who support host sites in coordinating everything that has to do with tracking and detection of infection with the Galician Health Service. I say, today, it has 55,000 downloads, thanks to the professionals who are working together, without any doubt, in its dissemination, and we have to reach even a lot more people; we hope to get to practice all the people, as we agreed with the representatives of the hospitality professionals who work in the places that are going to resume their activity. So we're going to do these volunteers, which are already starting, and our intention -- we announced it last Monday -- is to get to the Christmas dates with these almost finished crows. There are thousands and thousands of people who need good coordination, but just like we're having to negotiate aid and talk about the situation with the tourist community, we hope to have it in this important challenge too, because it's a challenge to do so many people and in a short time. We will continue to insist on the training of hostage professionals, both as regards safe practices and in general all that will now come about on reformulation of business models. There will still be much more to be done in the promotion of tourism through new technologies, entrepreneurship workshops and new forms of marketing, after a post-pandemic scenario. There are many professionals -- thousands -- who have joined these training activities, and we want to continue complementing them and doing them over the coming months. It will also start in the year 2021, at the Galician High Centre of Hostals, a business accelerator. We want to protect projects that are born in this new age and open up in the tourist field; projects of people who want to start a business, because there are still people, many young people, very well-trained in tourism in Galicia, who want to engage in business and who want to do so at this difficult time, and therefore deserve support from the administration. That's why we're going to make this Accelerator business for, first, capture those investments and accompany those entrepreneurs and the experts who accompany them at all times, until those projects, those projects of entrepreneurship, can work for themselves. We are going to dedicate this business accelerator EUR 400,000. We're also going to spend money to continue to enhance, along with the Spanish Institute of Tourism Quality, quality Qs. There are already many tourist establishments that have this badge, which undoubtedly makes a difference when it comes to tourist consumption and customer collection that they are most interested in. You know, in addition, that this badge must not only be obtained, it must also be renewed periodically. This is an investment, an effort for tourist professionals, and the Galician Union is going to help them too -- and much more at the moment -- because we've increased by 15% the line of aid for their renewal. Without a doubt, we're on the eve, less than a month -- three weeks -- for the Jacobean Year to begin. Even though I've had the opportunity to explain it both in this House, in a previous appearance, as in the appearance of budgets, we certainly have to reformulate in this stage what is to be the Jacob, we have to be smart enough to adapt the Jacob to the circumstance of each moment and think that it's not going to be the same now that within a few months, that it's not going to be the same mobility, that it's not going to be the same concentration of people, that it's not going to be the same as people who, above all, can come from outside. But we have to take advantage of this from the very first moment with an intelligent advocacy campaign that we are designing right now and that will start gradually, I insist, adapted to the circumstances that are going to be given at every moment so as not to waste the advertising promotional impacts that, without any doubt, must be done, and choosing the most appropriate distribution channels at every moment. I think resources are important, but also the work to be done is ingenious. So we adapt it to the evolution of the pandemic and try to be as useful at any time as possible to achieve, in the end, that advocacy work that is going to be essential at the moment to have a magnificent Xacobeo, the best of the possible Jacobeans. There's going to be a lot of activities. At first it'll be all year round, because Jacob is a lot of things, but above all, he's Greek and he has to get to all of Galicia; so we'll do decentralized activities, we'll try to be in all of Galicia, and then we'll gradually extend them to get everywhere, especially for a lot of people to get here. For that too, you have to have the ready shelters, the plan of shelters, both for those that already exist, that there is a very wide public network of hostels and also for private shelters - helping you with that line of works that you have accessed this year, by the way - as to continue to increase them, as I told you earlier, in the year 2021. And just like the shelters, the Roads. We are finishing the last missing path to adapt, the Winter Road, and we want to arrive early in 2021 with all the Ways in perfect condition. Finally, to finish, in this pandemic scenario, in this scenario of so many news and so many challenges, we want to design -- we are designing -- the tourist planning of the future of the tourism cluster cluster; that is, the hands of professionals and the hands of experts who know the most, who are in universities. For that we signed just a month ago the development of the Plan Director 2021-2023, Galicia, a secure destination of tourism, precisely to interpret everything that has happened to us, to learn from all this situation and to try to see what tourism is going to be, where it will go and where it must therefore turn Galicia's tourist planning from a public point of view, advised - yet - from the hands of professionals in the next three years. This is going to be the effort, that's what the Galician Union is doing in this pandemic scenario, especially thinking about the post-pandemic scenario. There has been an important effort, but it will not be enough — already finished, Mr President. We can't be alone in this task, and therefore I end up trying to do it whenever I have occasion when I have to talk about what the Galician Union wants to do and what we need the others to do, so that the effect is multiplier, which is saying that everyone does their own. We all have competences and responsibilities. Of course, you have the local administration. There are some who think they're giving a magnificent example of involvement, at the moment, especially with the professionals of tourism and hospitality, others not so much. So, I hope these men will rectify and realize that I am also a very important administration, from the fiscal point of view, also of direct aid, especially those that have the most economic capacity, but in general all local administrations can do something -- and some a lot -- to help also a sector that is going particularly wrong. And so does the state administration, which has to do a lot of things, but I'm going to summarize them in four mains, which are the ones we're asking repeatedly every time we have occasion: First, Next Generation funds. Mr. Pontón once spoke of the need for planning and the need for Galicia to be prepared to take advantage of this opportunity. Well, of course, that's what we're trying to do, but we also need to know, once we know, according to the Secretary of State of Tourism, that the Central Government is going to have nearly a billion euros for tourism planning, what they're going to do, because all of this will have to land in a territory, and to do so they will have to talk to the autonomous communities that we also have skills in tourism. I have to say that today we know absolutely nothing about what planning there is, what criteria are and how you can access all those funds. Of course, Galicia has presented, in the Next Generation field, projects in the tourist field, but we also need those who have the money today - or tell them they have them - to tell us what it has to be the coordination for those money to be used as effectively as possible. That's the first one, because we're talking about very important amounts. We also need -- just as Galicia is doing, so is this House -- that there is legislation, because that's what the tour operators who want to bring tourists to Galicia, the professionals who are engaged in tourism, especially on a large scale -- a general health legislation, at least with general criteria, with certainty and uniformity so that anyone who travels from one territory to another knows that there are a number of things that are coordinated at general level, and especially adapted to this time of pandemic. It makes no sense that today, especially when we're talking about mobility, if we continue with the same legislation -- I'm talking at the state level -- that when there was no pandemic. So we also claim here that there is that adequate health legislation at the state level. Then we want that shock plan that has been announced so many times by the State Administration. It was to October, it was to November, and we're told it's to December because it's very complicated. Of course it's complicated; it's also complicated all these measures that I announce to you in this audience and that you're doing the Unity of Galicia and of course you also have to coordinate the departments of the Unity of Galicia, but you have to do it, and you have to do it urgently, and much more at the moment. It can't be that the days and months are going to pass and it's said that the shock plan is going to differ because it's complicated and that there's still a lot to go around. This is the time, now it's time to do it. We therefore demand that the State do so, that it lower the VAT, that it put the over-reduced VAT. The other day, the minister responsible for tourism said that it doesn't make any sense to lower the VAT because it would benefit tourism entrepreneurs. Well, at the moment, tourist entrepreneurs need special help. So you have to think a little bit that these measures are going to be addressed to those who need it most right now, just like everything that has to do with ERTE planning. Sure, right now. It's not worth balloons probe, it's not worth saying what's going to last the ERTE, but don't say it with any certainty that it allows planning. Now that we're incarcerating, when the year 2021 begins, in the months that go before Holy Week, it's necessary to know how long the ERTE will last so that tourist entrepreneurs can make their plans, and today they still don't know. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, we need a direct implication. It doesn't make any sense that if you vote against it... first, it doesn't make any sense that there's no budgetary forecast for Jacob 2021 in state budgets, being, as all tourism professionals and even policy makers of the State General Tourism Administration, which will undoubtedly be the most important event in Spain during the year 2021. Well, budget allocation, zero. He was the Secretary General of Tourism in Santiago de Compostela -- I accompanied him, of course -- a month ago, he was asked and said yes, that of course there would be a commitment, that as he would not. For the budgetary commitments that are made are in the budgets, and the state budgets, at least today, have zero; this is not the case for other autonomous communities, but for Galicia, the Xacobeo, zero. There were amendments, and all were rejected by the Socialist Party at the Congress of Deputies in Madrid, saying that it is not necessary, it seems, that Xacobeo 2021 has no economic assistance from the state. So I think this is a good example of the non-involvement of today and the necessary implication that we demand. If there is coordination, I think we can all help the worst sectors now. Tourism, of course, is not having a good time, and I think it's important that we all be aware at this point that the effort has to be made. The Galician Council is doing it, and this was what I wanted to do today in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u68	Thank you, Vice President. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Round of parliamentary groups. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr Aranguena has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Wheel, I'm going to start talking to you about something I think we'll agree with. The State budgets transferred by the State this year 2020, irrespective of the 2021 budgets of the Union, the State etc., were 417 million for health care, 93 million for education and 224 million to compensate for the fall in economic activity. If we add up, it's 734 million in total, only in 2020, regardless of what's going to happen to the Galician Union in the year of the state's most expansive budgets, which will be 2021. Speaking and contrasting these figures with what you're offering, I show you here an ad published on 29th of last month, that is, about ten or fifteen days ago, and that ad says, "Galicia's Help Plan" -- says "Galicia," I don't know why, as you're already changing Galicia's theme -- I don't know if they're in a kind of linguistic mutation -- to the hospitality and micro-enterprises." And it says, "From 1,200 to 2,000 euros for self-employed people; from 4,000 to 5,000 for micro-enterprises and self-employed people; from 1,500 to 2,000 euros a month while the hostel is closed by health regulations; from 12,000 to 20,000 euros for improvements on the terrace, etc., etc.." And then he says, "Total investment: EUR 87 million." I mean, the state transfers them 224 -- or commits itself in 224 -- millions euros, but you advertise and advertise a total investment of 87 million euros. But then we have to interpret those figures. What you do is add the 17 million aid to the hostel to the 70 million aid to the self-employed and micro-enterprises that have already announced. According to the latest data available before the pandemic, there were 18,892 bars and restaurants in Galicia. If we divide the 17 million euros promised to the hostel between these approximately 19,000 bars and restaurants, the figure that comes out is 899 euros; a single payment of 899 euros, assuming that these aids are distributed after so many times announced. But you promise 1,500 or 2,000 euros a month while the hostel is closed by health regulations. It is therefore a lie, as most of its official propaganda; it is a complete, complete and absolute lie. What's true is the 224 million you've committed to them or transferred to them already the state, which contrasts with the 87 million euros you're advertising, because it's 2.5 times less. By the end of 2019 Galicia had 209,000 self-employed, and in the last report of the Ministry of Industry had 190,000 microenterprises. In total, 390,000 self-employed and microenterprises. If we divide those remaining 70 million euros - separated from the other 17 from their plan - between those 390,000 autonomous and micro-enterprises, a single payment of 175 euros is issued; once 175 euros. But you're saying that they're going to be played between 4,000 and 5,000 euros; that is, between 22 and 28 times more than the most elementary maths indicate that they could correspond. So rude is your propaganda manipulation that I have to tell you that you are lucky that the crime of misleading advertising doesn't apply to public administrations, because in that case you should certainly worry a lot. In any case, apart from misleading advertising, what you have to do with the most expansive budgets in history is to provide real and meaningful help, beyond advertising. Without going further, a community like Murcia, with half the population, dedicates 38 million euros of aid to the hostel; more than double the 17 million you promised, with about half the population and about half the host institutions than Galicia. You don't manage this crisis by counting trolls; it's very important that you stop counting trolls, it's an ethical issue of the utmost importance. Speaking of ethics and trolls, if they haven't seen it already, I strongly recommend to everyone here the visionary of Borgen, which is a Danish series of politics, when one day the husband of Denmark's Prime Minister offers him a wonderful contract in a company. Birgitte Nyborg's husband had a wonderful resume, before he arrived at his wife's politics, but Birgitte Nyborg tells him he has to refuse that contract because, despite being completely legal, it would be unsightly. The famous question of ethics and aesthetics. Can you imagine what Birgitte Nyborg would say to her husband if they offered to be a advisor to Sargadelos? To imagine the answer to that question is a very interesting exercise, in my opinion, as much as comparing Greek politics with Danish, and make sure that I'm speaking to them very respectfully about ethics and aesthetics and I don't even think I want to get into the private life of any couple. [[Murmurs.]] I'm talking about politics, and I'm talking about ethics and aesthetics and a Danish series. [[Murmurs.]] If they want to see her, I invite them hard, as I've already done. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Rueda, we welcome your arrival to the tourism responsibilities, a pending subject of your Government. And, speaking of tourism, let me give you an example of your policy, the Way of the Farewells, probably the greatest success since the invention of the Santiago Way in the ninth century, only in this case the initiative did not start either of the church or of any public administration like the Union, but of a small group of neighbors and neighbors of the Coast of Death, who conceived it from that moment, and received the visit of dozens, of many tens of thousands of hikers without any help from the Union. Rather, the association behind that path considers that the Board is actively boycotting that route, so, against bureaucratic desire, people continue to travel through thousands. I don't say that this route shouldn't be ordered, limited, or that there should be what to do, but it doesn't call attention to you that it has much more success to promote the Death Coast a group of self-organized and unfunded neighbors of any kind, without anything else than enthusiasm and knowledge of the country, that the Galician Union, who has the competition, resources, staff and budget to promote tourism in Galicia? Does he not speak to the clear facts of his Government's incompetence in promoting tourism in Galicia that among a few neighbors can attract much more tourism — far away! — to the Coast of Death than to the Union of Galicia with all its means and its competition? Where does that initiative leave you? Is that not why you don't like that initiative, because it reveals its futility, it leaves you with evidence and that's why you want to end it? And while four neighbors on the Death Coast attract more tourists than the entire tourism policy of the Galician Union, you talk about reactivating the sector and a new tourism model. And it seems very good to us, what is strange is that you are now thinking about a new tourist model, when the sector has been calling for a decade, and when that new tourist model of what they're talking about, it doesn't really coincide with the destruction of our heritage that you've discovered and consent when you don't directly commit it, as is the case of the monastery of San Pedro de Rocas, a true jewel you vote seems to convert into a kind of fair, making ruins in the landscape to expand a road that doesn't need to be expanded and doing actions of alleged cleaning. The second was reported last week, they irreversibly damaged part of the set. Nor does it match that change of tourist model with converting Galicia into a huge eucalyptal, as you are doing. And let me also tell you about transparency, because if transparency is essential in an ordinary moment as the operational requirement of democracy, in a moment of crisis, transparency becomes more necessary than ever, because people have more need for transparency than ever in this pandemic, and if something is recommended by experts and public institutions is transparency. Well, in the time you've been president of the board, you've pronounced in this House the word "transparency" on hundreds of occasions, but it seems that the more you pronounce that word, the less transparency you have in Galicia. And more than four years after the adoption of the Greek Transparency Act, that law goes on to the point of no regulation to develop it. The opacity with which you handle this pandemic is such that in a communiqué issued on 23 September, the Official College of Journalists - an official college, not a band of dangerous communists - denounced its lack of transparency in the management of the coronavirus by saying that - and I quote literally - "Galicia is at this time, along with Extremadura, the state's most opaque autonomy in data communication about the coward-19, and only a few judicial cars made public by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia allow to know partially some detailed data about the disease, which also causes a disparity in available information." For all this, the Dean of the Journalist College asks the Health Counsellor that all the data on which the decisions he's making are based be open for his consultation, both for journalists and for the general population." And then I call you a series of more concrete things that allow for a timely follow-up of the incidence of curfew-19, like what is being done in most autonomous communities. I repeat, the Official Journalists College says it wants information treatment like what is being done in most autonomous communities. The Official Journalists College has to demand your transparency, remind them that I am Spain's second least transparent autonomous community, and ask them to do what is being done in most autonomous communities, believe vigorously until their divorce reaches reality and separation from the truth. You don't get tired of begging that you're leaders in transparency, as they say they're leaders in I don't know how many more things, when the only thing they're leaders is saying they're leaders and making massive propaganda with public money. Nothing else. We'll continue later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u70	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Tabaret.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u71	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Vice-President, the truth is that today's questions to the President are those expressions that remain on the frontispice of every politician; at least I think I'm going to be filmed for life. The problem is not that a politician lies, but that he doesn't know when he lies. After that, a lot of what I'm seeing in committee and even in full, and in attendance today, I don't know if it makes any sense. Of course, it's a problem that the politician is lying, it's a very serious problem, it's a problem of democracy. I don't know if the vice president agrees that a politician lies is not a problem. In any case, it's a reflection and a fear of me. On the other hand, I want to share my concern about demonstrations by Vivenda's advisor in several committees and the last full plenary that comes in full within his vice-presidency for many senses, for cooperation and local administration, for justice and even for institutional relations. The lady was counsellor's intention to ban the embezzlement of people who live illegally in a real estate. I ask you, Mr. Vice-President, because you reach out to different aspects of your advice, if you have done some management about this particular. Because, I say to myself, apart from indignation, I've been worried a lot, I'm more concerned about this time of pandemic. What would we understand about illegal occupation? Would you pay for the previous judicial resolution or is it something out of the way or even parallel? And, above all, a person to whom we are denying embezzlement for effects at this time of health emergency, health care, care and access to education, how could he do without this embezzlement? It's just that you're trying to deny him something that he didn't even do — quite the opposite — Mr. Rajoy. That's a question we've raised, I say, from the bottom of our minds, and that goes a long way toward the pandemic and its counsellor. On the other hand, I also want to give you the most sincere in good time for a rectification, which came not without time. And it doesn't matter, but I think rectification isn't a waste, it's something honest and it honors those who do. They corrected their initial intention to suppress the Family Interjudiciary Mediation Service, at least at some schools — not at all, not throughout Galicia. On November 27, they signed those conventions; conventions which, of course, end at the end of the year. I believe that for next year, since they have done that correction that honours them, they must continue, and do not have in precarious this service about eleven months, a necessary service, and so on at this time of pandemic. We also gave him the right time for another correction, for recognizing the need for the use of masks in closed places and for not investing in health supplies that had been advised. Finally, when correct, correct; correct and perhaps correct more. Then, by focusing on this, first of all, on this health crisis, I believe, without a doubt, that the most important thing is protection. As Angela Merkel said yesterday, the important thing is to take measures to protect health and to prevent and treat health and subsequently — important, more secondary — to eliminate or mitigate the economic and social consequences of this health crisis. For that, solidarity is required and public resources are provided to people who can suffer the most from the consequences of this pandemic. Regarding this and this priority priority, I want to ask you a question. When we were talking in June -- and it was ridiculous enough -- to limit perimeter access to Galicia, do you think it was right or not? Do you think that this decision that was adopted in November, if it was adopted in June, could save lives, yes or no? Look, in the multiple appearances we've been leading in this legislation you've never -- nor today, either, despite the fact that, unlike us, your intervention is unlimited in time -- spoke of an area that corresponds to you, which is institutional relations. Look, do you have anything to say about this and something to think about? Do you consider that during these eight months the administrative dialogue, in terms of democracy and institutional loyalty, was correct? Was loyalty to this Parliament's political opposition correct? Was the transmission of information to local councils and entities correct? Do you understand it reasonable that until 15 days ago Galician municipalities had no direct information about the number of contagions or their location in their municipal term? Does it seem normal that restrictive measures - which, therefore, have to control restrictive measures of transit - which, at best, were in force at 12 o'clock in the evening, many municipalities could not know them until 11 o'clock in that night? Do you think that's normal? Then I would also ask for a reflection on the material provided to the councils, which was scarce, came late and often in bad state — broken, expired or sterile — in this institutional loyalty and in that collaboration and coordination; by the way, coordination often requested by the deputies and the municipalities, something that was ignored. As I would also like you to explain the economic approaches that have been made since the Galician Union to the municipalities of this country, which is not a funny thing, is something that I was already committed to and, therefore, was bound by the local Covenant signed in 2016. It seems that there is no desire to carry out these over-costs in the cleaning of health centres or conservatories, or even in those emergencies, which do not seem to have much intention of correcting them in 2021, because all of these are parts that suffer major cuts. And then a reference. Yesterday, a member of the People's Group expressed — in play tone — that it seems that the Socialist Parliamentary Group did not pick up the phone in Madrid, or something like that. Well, I should have been pretty funny to him. Well, look, the House of Ourense didn't put himself on the phone to mayors of the Nationalist Block Galego or on fifteen occasions during this pandemic, not on fifteen occasions! Not if you put them on the phone or return the call. [[Applause]] They reflect from the Galician Union - on the responsibilities it also has from that deputy - on what is the institutional loyalty to which they are bound and bound by law. [[Applause]] Well, in the wake of the emergencies — which you didn't touch — I just want to talk about two issues. He offered himself and made himself a ozone disinfection, even though he was discouraged by both the fight against the coward and being too dangerous for those who did it. Look, there's one thing positive, we recognize it: this pandemic has shown real Galicia; not the Galician TVG, but the real Galician. He has manifested the impossibility of teleworking. There's no more to see than one of Cecop's first acts where, somehow, the vice president of the board said, "Well, let's telework who can. Some people can telework, and what they don't telework, then, well, let them stay home without doing any work." Okay, that was the real situation that the Welsh Administration had in March or April 2020. We must recognise that there was a willingness to correct, that there was an agreement with nationalism — because nationalism can be reached by agreements — to be able to telework. We recognize her agility here, but all we want is to ask her, please, to do it, because it's not enough with the agreement. And, as a result of that agreement, we will have to equip Galician broad-band staff and civil servants to work on the mechanisms so that they can become effective. Then, regarding the Administration of Justice, well, he said that the viewing rooms were digitized. Some of them, because it's clear that some of them won't. And then, in any case, for that, we'll have to move forward in digitization. As far as tourism is concerned, I want to comment briefly on two things. Look, there were no direct measures, there were no direct help to the inn. Tell me otherwise, tell me if in Ourense or in Carballo there was a hostess who had received some direct help. [[Murmurs.]] There were no other measures as simple as intermediation to save costs, rent costs or even water canon costs for self-employed people... by the way, I think I started at first because of the little importance of truth. I know you're reading the orders, but I'm telling you, in that late November order, those 35 million are sealed for self-employed people who don't have their jobs. I expressly say it in the resolution that we probably read both. So, all those millions for self-government... No, no, no, there's 17 million... and I disagree with the calculations I was doing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u72	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u73	...the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u74	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u75	...—sorry, Your Honor, finished. They can only affect 7% of the potential beneficiaries -- only 7% -- the direct aid they haven't received today. And, as we've already said -- and I'll repeat in the replica -- Galicia is much more than Jacob. It is not appropriate that 80% of the budgets — secondly expressed — are dedicated to Xacobeo; Galicia is much more. And we applaud -- although we understand it's too late -- that planning, that big date, that college agreements are being made today, when they've been living -- except for certain windows of freedom -- ruling this country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u76	Thank you, Mr. Tabares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u77	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u78	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u79	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Vice-President, your first words have been of remembrance to all the people who have died because of the health crisis that we have suffered and for their families, to whom I want to add. And I also want to add - and the People's Parliamentary Group would like to add - to the recognition of the effort and sacrifice they have made and are making so many professionals in the field of health, education, police and all the essential services that they have worked and work tirelessly, with a real vocation of public service, to deal with this unprecedented situation in which we are immersed. But, in addition to a health crisis, we are experiencing an economic and social crisis that also causes pain, anguish and anxiety to all those people who come to rub off their work, their business, their livelihood: tourism, hospitality, leisure centers, nightlife, small trade, the services sector that depends on them and collaborates with them, and many other businesses that are going through very badly. It is therefore time to demonstrate that politicians can be useful, and we must be able to give the best of ourselves, to get agreements to take forward initiatives that can alleviate the effects of the social and economic crisis and put the interests of citizenship above partisan interests. President Feijóo has demonstrated his high level of interest by supporting the measures taken by the Government of Spain to deal with the crisis by making positive proposals, as was the case with the reform of the Public Health Act. Unfortunately, he seems to have fallen into a broken bag. Now you are criticising, and we do not have a legal instrument — as you asked, Mr Vice-President — to deal with this health crisis that gives legal certainty to all the measures being taken. And not only they don't do but they don't let them do it; the purest style of the Socialist Party. The other day I read this headline: "Spain falls ten posts on equal with Sánchez and Montero in the government." Well, I'll talk about this a little bit, Mr. President, if you'll excuse me. I didn't think to do it, but I got it back from my folder because it's true that we've been listening for some time in this House to absolutely macho attitudes by some of the Members, and we can't even agree on one more thing in this House. Because what can't be is that you question the professionalism of women — of any woman in this country, whoever it is, even if it's Mr. Sánchez's lady, who is where she is...; I hope and trust in her professionalism and not because she's the woman of....... [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] This leads us to an attitude like that of humorist José Mota—I don't know if they saw last week the mess that got up and the criticism of all the feminists in this country because of the machist mood of Mr José Mota—which is at the level of some Socialist Party member. Well, every time a member of the Socialist Party speaks in the purest style of José Mota, they are putting this Parliament at the levels of the most populism and parliamentary tabernyism that has been heard in this House. But fortunately, these are already outside the House, because the Greeks and the Greeks don't allow that and they don't like those macho, tavernal and low-level attitudes of political and parliamentary debate. [[Applause]] Mr. Vice President, you have spoken here of an opaque government. Look, the most opaque government in Spain is not that of any autonomous community, it is that of the Government of Spain itself!: "Transparency has already forced the Government to give information it wanted to hide." Among other things, the name of the experts - who say that there is an expert committee, which seems not to exist, but well... - [[Mr Prado del Río shows a document.]] Now Transparency forces you to give that name. We're waiting if they're gonna give it to you or follow that line. Half the government doesn't transparent its contracts, gentlemen. This is the Government of Spain, the Socialist and Communist Government that is ruling us in Spain - don't laugh, it's true - those who have confined the Transparency Portal. [[Laughter]] They've been confined to the Transparency Portal, not publishing a single contract! [[Murmurs.]] Not a single contract! And do you come here to teach transparency lessons? They had to fall in shame. And, of course, they come to compare the help of Galician hostel with Murcia's, or I don't know what, and they start to do the people's accounts there... Oh, it's just that there isn't. No, the state doesn't have any help for the inn. No, he doesn't; he doesn't. Look, it doesn't. It says here - this news is these days - "The government tries to calm the outrage of tourism with a plan before the end of the year". Well, see if it's true. Let's see if it's true and if there's anything. You said you don't know if they're going to be asked, if they're going to be charged. Of course, you're so entertained by your struggles and internal purges that they don't talk to people. Look, Mr. Tabares and Mr. Aranguena, there are many hosts who have not already asked for help, they have already collected them. You talk to people, you get closer to citizenship, you get out of office, you stop stepping on carpets, you leave your internal struggles and you focus on caring for people's problems, which is why you've chosen them from Galician citizenship, to solve your problems, and not to be with your party problems all day long in there with your purges. Look, in the hotel aid: Galicia, between 6,700 and 9,200 euros; Basque Country, between 3,000 and 4,000; Catalonia, 1,500 - Catalunya, 1,500!—; La Rioja, between 3,500 and 5,000; Castela-León, 3,500. They compare with anyone they want, even with those of the state. I'd like you to come up here with a socialist deputy and compare not with Murcia, but with where you are ruling, with the state. Yes, yes, this later will be seen by the hosts... yes, yes, I wait for your answer, because I'm sure you'll like the hosts very much - who are there every day, in front of the Government Delegation, manifesting yourself - that you tell them what those help seems to be there and what they can't ask for. [[Mr. Aranguena Fernández seat.]] [[Mr. Aranguena Fernández gesticula.]] Of course, if you tell me about the 4 billion euros you said you gave them... of course! But look : " Pedro Sánchez's help to save him only covers 5% of the losses that the sector expects." "Sánchez forgets the hospitality and tourism in his plan to rebuild Spain." [[Mrs. Prado del Río reads press releases.]] And this is: "Sánchez's plan to help tourism is based on business credits." Your direct help, zero, except for the airlines, which they give them 25 million euros, and they don't even give them in cash, they take them off the airport charges that they have to pay to AENA; they fly, if they don't fly, to see where they're going to be discounted, gentlemen. You're here to say there's help at the inn and you're helping with tourism. The face of shame should fall on you! Look, if you had a minimum of loyalty, you could make criticisms, of course, because everything is better, of course everything is better, but what you can't do is come here and don't even applaud what's applauding the whole sector, what's applauding the tourism cluster and what's applauding the hotel representatives. You speak to any representative of the Spanish hostel. You know what they're asking for?: We want the same help as Feijóo gives in Galicia. That's what the representatives of other autonomous communities are saying. Laughing, laughing; it's no fun for them. [[Applause]] Many of them have their places closed, and many of them can't open them again, and you laugh, which makes them very funny. Of course, Mr. Vice President, there are things that have to be applauded, and we applaud them. We applaud all the management they're doing. What's better? Of course, nobody's infallible, we're human. But you have to make positive proposals, don't come here to talk about other things, because I remember your budget appearance, Mr. Vice President, and they spoke 30 or 40 seconds of tourism. That's what tourism matters to you. No, don't do that, Mr. Tabares, because he didn't devote much more to you here today. He spoke in the end; he said, well, to finish, I'm going to talk here about some tourism. Home! Is that what you care about tourism, Mr. Tabares? Zero. You spoke only 40 seconds of tourism in the commission where you presented the budgets for this sector to criticize Xacobeo, and today you did the same. He said, it's not just the Xacobeo. Mr. Vice-President has just said that they have activities decentralized throughout Galicia to favor the entire autonomous community of an event that they would already like to have in many autonomous communities and in many states. Because Santiago is one of three world pilgrimage centers, gentlemen, world! Let's take advantage of that power we have. No, it's not all Xacobeo. But what are you...? Of course, because as the state does not put a euro for Jacob in the budgets, you in that pact of Ana and Adriana did not count on Jacob or anything for Galicia, because nothing they gave them and nothing will give them, so today they come to ask Mr. Feijóo for help, of course: we sign something, we will deal here with the next generation funds. I asked Mr. Sánchez, that you put him there. [[Murmurs.]] It's surprising, you put Mr. Sánchez in Moncloa and now they're asking Mr. Feijó for a pact to face Mr. Sánchez. This is surreal, gentlemen, this is surreal! Make an allowance for that agreement of Ana and Adriana and ask Mr. Sánchez for something for Jacob, ask for something for the hostel... No, no, if it's the letter to the Magi Kings, it's the letter to the Magi Kings! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, yes, Mr. Rodríguez, of course it is the letter to the Magi, unfortunately. While the Galician Union helps self-government and micro-enterprises, what does the State Government do? Soblo the quota for self-employed. Ah, of course, no, it was a pact that was signed in December 2018! You didn't have time to manage and modify that pact before the situation was going on, because in December 2018 the economy was rising...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u80	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u81	...to 3% and now it's dropping to 12%. The situation is not the same. They went up the autonomous quota now and they're going to go back up in January. You don't have time to solve the problem of self-government, but you have time to put Pablo Iglesias in the CNI, you have time to bring immigrants from the Canary Islands... that's your great contribution to tourism, bring eight planes of immigrants...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u82	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u83	...to the Peninsula; that is your great contribution to tourism, gentlemen. Well, I don't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u84	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u85	...are vulnerable people, with needs, who have to be cared for.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u87	And they can't be...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u88	Thank you. [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] Thank you. [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] Thank you. [[Applause]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the reply, you are the first Vice-President and chairlor, Justice and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm going to try to respond to everything they expressed in the reply to the appearance, starting with Mr. Aranguena. Mr. Aranguena, speaking of ads, of course, you've probably been given an argument by saying that here we've been transferred 700 million euros. No, no, I'm going to talk about his government and the money he says it's going on. [[Mr. Arangüena Fernández displays a document from his scan.]] He says, they have 700 million euros and so if they don't give money, it's because they don't want to share them. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You, when they give you the argument of the 700 million euros that says the state has passed us, they also tell you, in that argumentary, that nearly 400 are still pending transfer? That doesn't know yet, does it? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That doesn't come to you in the argument. They don't tell him that in the central government they have to be thinking that since the pandemic started, we haven't had any health expenses, we haven't had education expenses, we haven't had any expenses in the social field... and that can therefore be expected. Oh, that's right, he criticizes the Galician board because there's an order called a week ago and he says he hasn't paid everyone any more. Well, that's critical and we have to go for it. But, of course, they're not going to be able to transfer half of the funds that the state told us to go through today, we don't know why...! That's right, ads and propaganda, everyone in the world, but they're not transferred. It must be because they think we don't need it, because we don't have expenses derived from the pandemic. Of course, after you tell us -- I noted textually what you said -- "...without telling what's going to fall to Galician Union next year." Like this was a lottery prize. Of course, as if it were randomly divided, "what's going to happen to us," "We'll see..." Well, now I'm explaining: The Secretary of State of Tourism has 1 billion and doesn't matter to us, you have half the urgent and emergency funds to transfer them to the vault without transferring... well, "what we're going to fall." He grows up in his arms and while, yes, he criticizes the help they're really producing. You make an account of what I would ask you for a bit of responsibility, because people, like so many hosts, who are in a very complicated situation right now and who don't have the habit of handling help and handling them quickly because they quickly need it, if you care, first, to confuse them by saying that they don't touch them... No, 17 million touch them only, but they also have up to 82 -- let's say it from the beginning and it's in those informative ads that you're criticizing, but what they're trying to counteract is the misinformation you're spreading every day -- You can also ask for up to 82 million euros and they're actually asking for it. I in my first intervention told him that there are already more than 34,000 applications. What do you think, that in these 34,000 self-sustainment and micro-supply funds, there are no requests from many of the hostess professionals, too? What do you think, that all these people are gonna believe you when they tell you that 17 out of thousands of lodgers play 800? No, no, as Mrs. Prado said, there are people who are already charging them. What happens is, maybe, that doesn't tell you, and if they tell you, they won't recognize it... but there are people who are already charging -- there's the difference between 400 million revenue pending and people who are already collecting aid called two weeks ago. They don't get that mess saying they won't be able to ask for it. You also said, "...is that the little letter..." Before the orders were published, you were already talking about the small letter of commands you didn't know at all. I hope they know them now. If they know them, at least they contain the truth and they don't confuse people who need them by telling them that they only have that amount and the others can't ask for it. That's what I understood and I know the help goes, I suppose those who don't know it yet and really need it because it probably doesn't help them much. Therefore, a little responsibility, Mr. Arangüena; just as I ask you to take some responsibility when talking about planned tourism seriously. Exaggerations are not good. Understanding that, of course, they are magnificent landscapes and an area with enormous tourist potential, but, man!, saying that the Path of the Lighthouses is the most important Way in Galicia after the discovery, in the ninth century, of the Way of Santiago, it is perhaps a lot to say, thinking that there are many tourist products in Galicia very important. But anyway, I'm telling you something. I suppose you'll know -- and if you know, I'm worried, because, then, if we want to have a serious debate, listening to what you said here, I don't understand anything, and if you don't know it, I should know -- that the Galician Union cannot promote the Path of the Lights because it's not approved. It's just that it's the Galician board that... but it's no good to homologate than not to approve! [[Murmurs.]] Because it's the most important thing since the 9th century, it's the same thing that things aren't safe, it's the same thing that some people have to submit to some rules and others don't... it's all the same, Mr. Aranguena. You come here with an errand, you have to give it and the rest of it doesn't matter, and the planning and responsibility of the tourist administration is the lack of it. If the Galician Mountain Federation doesn't approve it, who has to approve it, the Galician Union has to make deaf ears, it has to skip all the rules and it has to do what you want because it comes here with a message. But that can't be, because tourist planning is something else and we try to be serious and respect, of course, the tourist potential that everybody has, but doing things right. [[Applause]] As Mrs Prado has already told you, the truth is that you admit 3 or 4 minutes — of course, you are on your right — saying such glorious phrases — I'm sorry to say to you — that "transparency in institutions is fundamental, and much more in a time of pandemic and refers to the data that has to do with health security," says the member of a party who continues to hide the committee that decides the lives and deeds of all Spaniards and that this is very good, that he has nothing to say, but that he criticizes us that, but it makes it very difficult to take his speech about transparency seriously, frankly. Just like when you twist the data and you tell me about a complaint from the College of Journalists that is from September, when you know about it -- or you should know -- whether you know it or not -- that since October it's on the website with all the open data. So, telling me about a September complaint in December, ignoring everything that happened in the middle, of course, makes it very difficult for you to answer it, at least with a minimum of seriousness, although I want to try and I don't know if I'm getting it. Of course, my duty is to try, despite — I am sorry to say — the lack of rigour in that proposal and others that it has done to me. Mr. Tabares, you've talked about several things. I'll try to answer everything. It's true that I wanted to focus my appearance especially on tourism, because I think it's a very delicate responsibility right now and that it has to focus or is focusing on the efforts of the Galician Union, but, as you said other things, I'm going to try to answer them. He was talking to me about medication. He says he's glad he's rectified because in November we signed the mediation agreements. You told me we weren't going to sign them, and I already told you in September, when I came in, that we were going to sign them. In the end, we've signed them and it turns out they have vigil for the whole year. Mr. Tabares, although they're signed in November, they've been in charge for the whole year. So, of course, if I tell you yes and I do, and you tell me you wouldn't do it, but in the end, it turns out yes, I would just tell you who would have to correct and who was right, but it's the least, actually; in the end, we both are interested in mediation. I've already told you in my budget show that mediation must also be accompanied by private initiative. I don't believe - nor believe the Galician Union - that there is only mediation because it has public support and nothing else. There will be a time when mediation must also have a part of movement from the private side because, if not, in the end, here and elsewhere will end up not working. It's a system in which I believe -- I see that you too, and I think that's right -- as an important support for the functioning of the organs of justice. Just as I am told that we are correcting the subject of mascarillas, because mascarillas are now being used in the interior, - I suppose it refers to the inside of the judicial bodies -. It's just I haven't rectified. I remind you that that minister you put in -- because they supported the investment -- told us for a long time that the masks were counterproductive and therefore they shouldn't be used either on the outside or on the inside. Now it turns out they're mandatory, which we immediately apply, so now there's mascarillas and before there's none. As soon as the need was established and finally the highest health authority agreed with itself, the Council of Galicia was the first. And I've also told him that we've been spending a lot of millions of euros in the Justice Administration, and we have to do it. Someone was asking about the digital viewing rooms, because we have 86%. We're going to end the year 2021 with 86% of digital rooms. I'd tell you how many autonomous communities, including the Ministry's territory, can give that percentage of digitization in the Justice Administration in something so important -- because that's the basis of everything -- how to scan the viewing rooms and, therefore, to make views and the process before the fully digital views. I also wondered if I believe - contrary to what we said in June and what you asked for - whether or not to penetrate the territory of Galicia had saved lives. It's just, you know what happens, Mr. Tabares? There's a contradiction here, because every BNG politician has a health expert on his own. I daren't say so much. I trust the Clinical Committee because here we have a clinical committee with names and surnames and, therefore, we do what it proposes to us, as hard as it may seem to us sometimes and very predictable as the legitimate reactions also - of the people who see themselves being harmed. But we do as the Clinical Committee tells us. We don't say the first thing if we don't even air health proposals without authority or health capacity -- I suppose you don't have it, because of your training, just as I don't have it -- to say things as cheerfully as many of the BNG's political leaders do, that they immediately start to say that health measures must be applied, without any doubt, in the life and economy around the world, without having a lot of scientific basis, or at least we don't know it. I prefer the method of the Galician Union, which is to advise the committees of experts and implement their determinations. And there's no need to think about whether we're worth it or not. [[Applause]] That's what there is, and that's what we have to do, and we have to do it, by the way, by collaborating with the other administrations. He told me I didn't spend any time in my intervention talking about institutional relationships. I'm sorry to tell you, but you didn't listen to me. I said there were organs -- and I also named them -- the Cecop, the relationships with the Fegamp, in dealing with the fines, the meeting I had with the government delegate and the continuous contact we have -- on the contrary, the institutional relations and coordination are fundamental here, and I don't have a problem saying it; when they work, you have to say it, and when they don't work, you have to say it, too. So if we have coordination and we are all able to direct and coordinate the magnificent performance, the commendable performance, the forces and security bodies of the state, because we must say so. So don't tell me I didn't talk about institutional relationships. It's based on that. The experts, who know, decide, and then we have to do what we have to do is to apply it and also put in place measures to punish those who don't want to comply, the behaviors I've already told you in my first part of the intervention that put us all at risk. There are constant samples. He told me we despised cooperation with Members. With the U.S. Deputy and the Crown Deputy, of different political signs, it's not just that there was no cooperation, that we distributed to them the material, the PPEs, that they were acquiring, because we had a logistics network, with which, it was much easier to distribute things quickly. So I'd say, Mr Tabares, with all the cordiality, that you find out if you coordinate. There are deputies, who, of course, would rather do anything else than coordinate with the Union, even if they had no use at all. I know, I know, but there are reasonable Members who are willing to cooperate, and I put those two examples where the Galician Union - at no cost for the deputies, of course, because ultimately the beneficiaries will be the citizens - distributed, during the time of the pandemic, health material that they were acquiring. He was also talking about teleworking — and I'm going to finish, Mr. President. He said that at one of Cecop's first sessions, in fact, in March, I said that at that time we had to try teleworking; that whoever could telework, did it, and that we'd be getting better. Then he recognized me that we were improving, and we were improving in a record time. Home!, if in an administration... by the way, there were already nearly 500 people working teleworking before the pandemic, many more than in any other public administration in proportion to officials, because there's one before and one after the pandemic with teleworking; we probably now discover many of the advantages it has, but not before. We already had 500 public workers teleworking before the pandemic and a month and a half later we had thousands and thousands. I think that effort has to be recognized before we criticize it. And it must also be said that I in the first Cecop there was in March, when I had just begun all the confinement, I said that it was not possible for me to telework more than technically at that time could do. Hey, I think this is quite understandable. And if later, today, we have a plan that enables many people to telework, including that of the Administration of Justice, I think that's good; and not for me, nor for the Government of the Council of Galicia, but for the technicians, magnificent technicians of the Galician Agency of Technology, Amtega, who was able to implement all this in record time. Finally -- and I'm done -- I want to answer -- I've tried to do it before, and I want to stop at this -- on the subject of direct help, which you're so critical of. He says there are no people who have received help. Mrs. Prado has already told you, talk to the people a little bit. There are aids called a week ago, there are others that don't even go three, and there are already people who are charging. That compares to those who had to be actually charging for the state shock plan, which is not that they're not charging, that they're not even summoned, they're not even designed, with the excuse that it's very complicated. So you're still thinking -- like we haven't had nine months of pandemic -- total, like we haven't had much time of restrictions or crisis in the tourist sector -- how you can help them. In fact, we have had many consultations - we are having, and I hope to continue to have many - other autonomous communities - some governed by the Socialist Party and others by nationalists - asking us for our design, because they know that people are already starting to charge and because they know that we have more than 35,000 applications in aid that have no three, no one week of vigilance in some of the cases. They're already doing it, and they're dealing with the sector. You're criticizing and saying that I'm a disaster, but after sitting down with the sector itself and having hard and tense conversations with them -- because the situation is true that it's a lot of tension -- we finally get them and call them together, and now what we're asking is that we pay them quickly. As soon as there's no need to pay them because they can already work, much better, but that will have to be decided by the experts. So, this is what we're going to do seriously. I know that doing demagogy, especially without talking to the affected, is very simple, but a government that intends to manage this with some seriousness - and the Government of Galician Union claims - that cannot do it, and I, of course, will not do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u90	Thank you, Vice President. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Special round of clarifications. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Aranguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u91	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know why VOX has no representation in Galicia. VOX has no representation in Galicia because it is perfectly accommodated within the People's Party of Galicia. [[Applause]] But, as we know, this objective fact does not mean that we can allow Mrs Prado to say here what she said, when she said that our plan for tourism is to bring immigrants from the Canary Islands, because what she did was a repugnant manifestation of improper and outraged xenophobia in this democratic Parliament. And that's why I'm going to ask Mrs. Prado to withdraw, when he has his intervention, what he said; to withdraw what he said, yes, yes, yes, because I repeat again that it is a manifestation of xenophobia. [[Applause]] You may be xenophobic, but what you don't have to do is express here, in this democratic Parliament, your xenophobia. You have a chance to answer me later. You referred to me before and I didn't ask for a shift of allusions. By the way, Mrs. Prado, I haven't spoken here... if I'm talking about celestial numismatics or if I'm talking about mycology, you're going to get your main and dearest argument, which is the question of machismo. [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] But, look, neither the mushrooms nor the celestial numismatics have anything to do with the genre of people. By the way, I apologize for what I did was a spoiler and I had to warn you, because what I asked myself was that I would do the Prime Minister of Denmark in that television series — which I strongly recommend to you to watch, since I see that you haven't seen it — if your husband offered you the position of advisor to Sargadelos or was appointed advisor to Sargadelos. By the way, Mr. Isacc Díaz Pardo's mural is there - which we can say, in the environment - and it would be good to know what Mr. Pardo would think. I just asked him that question. I'm talking about a television series, I didn't even talk about any German character; I didn't mention anyone here. If that's the case, speaking of a minister's wife and her husband, it seems to you like a manifestation of machoism, because you have to make him look, along with your little problem of xenophobia. But look, Mr. Rueda, I have to tell you that it's an excellent time to reformulate and change Galicia's production model, it's an absolutely historic opportunity, because Junta is going to receive the next year -- not going down from heaven, it's budgetary issues; it's a huge effort of solidarity that is being made on the part of Europe and the Central Government -- more than one billion extra, additional, of those who receive every year, in reconstruction funds, apart from the more than seven hundred million I receive or are committed to this year. And the Union, like the rest of the autonomous communities, is working on expanding budgets, on-line with more expansive state general budgets, although they are associated, as I say, with the greatest commitment for collective solidarity made by the European Union in all its existence. With these limbs, you have to stop being an austere student and convert to Keynesianism. We understand that you don't fit into Keynes' ideas, because it's going to look like some kind of dangerous Marxist, but that's what happens now, among other things, because all the civilized and European right that you, in theory, aspire to become part of, embraced that Keynesianism, and that means you can't practice a kind of low cost recovery. Those 87 million are low cost recovery. I don't say they're bad, I say they're low-cost recovery and that the effort you have to put on the table in budgetary matters, in matters of help to self-employed people, pemes, hospitality, etc., is much higher, and you don't presume to be vanguard because that falls by your own weight. What I'm telling you is that they're making deceptive advertising, because if we divide the 17 million euros promised to the hostel between these approximately 19,0000 bars and restaurants, it's 899 euros at once. That's math. I'm not here to talk about politics on this subject, I'm here to talk about elementary mathematics. Because you promise 1,500 or 2,000 euros a month while the hostel site is closed by health regulations, and that's incompatible with mathematics, with adding, subtracting and dividing. At the end of 2019, in the same way, Galicia had 399,000 self-employed and micro-enterprises, and if we divide the 70 million euros of its plan between that number, between 399,000, a single payment of 175 euros, 175 euros! But you're saying that they're going to be worth 4,000 to 5,000 euros; that is, between 22 and 28 times more than just math indicates. So it's a troupe, it's a real coat of hair, and we're the only ones we ask you to face recovery decisively, to do with the most expansive budgets in history what you have to do and, above all, to stop counting them to citizenship, which is what you're doing repeatedly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u92	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Tabares has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u93	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, Mrs Prado, stop using this Parliament for Genova; this is not to oppose a government of the state. They lead, they defend Galicia's interests. Today's morning's pact is not a pact with Nuñez Feijóo, it's a pact with the president of the board in defense of Galicia's interests, because we're at a very worrying moment, we're at a historic moment. It is not a question of being in favour of debates: that is Madrid, that is Pedro Sánchez, that is Ana-Adriana... please! We're here for something else, and that's a pact in defense of the country's interests, because it can be the last train, and late train in Ourense we know a lot! [[Applause]] The truth here is also in a perverse game: when we propose because we propose and when we do not propose because we do not propose. Don't get in the rag. In connection with the impeding, which, if I were to comment on and start my intervention by worrying about that subject, I think that with the tone of his intervention and with some other manifestation he did, I already find myself responding with sensitivity on the subject. On institutional relations, I tell you that if the institutional relations of the Galician Union with the municipalities were that in November and on the basis of a non-binding report by the Advisory Council - that is, there is good will by the parties to come to an agreement - on the handling of fines, that is the institutional relationship with the municipalities - finally, it comes to you! The institutional relationship with the municipalities is to provide them with information so that they can take measures for the benefit of citizenship, that is to comply with the local Covenant, that is to bring material closer together. And, indeed, yes, there is collaboration with the Deputy in the supply of material. By the way, the material supplied by the Galician Union to the municipalities, at least those in Ourense province, arrived for two masquerades a month for the workers of the Town Hall, without sharing among the population. That's the material supplied, and that's the relationship of the workers and workers in the Town Hall. So it's not like getting too much breast. In relation to mediation, I did so two months, not because there were two months left, because there was only one month left, but because it was only with two professional schools, with Vigo and with Santiago; that is, the mediation they promised was only in Vigo and Santiago, and that's why I signaled the two. [[Mr. Tabares Pérez-Pineiro lifts his hand and shows two fingers.]] But it's not two months, it's a month. In January 2021 there will be mediation, and in February? Or will they do as they do every year, where in mediation professional schools will be on the verge of that mediation service? So don't pull your chest about it. And they say: talk to the lodgers... well, of course Facebook doesn't follow me, but it doesn't follow Galicia's situation a bit either. I mean, the lodgers were closed, and some of them will be closed forever. Sure, that's the problem. [[Mr. Prado del Río: Yes, yes.]] On the aid relationship, Mr. Counsellor, of course, then I dare you tell him not to read things, but the help of these 17 million, first of all, are for the hosting from October 7th. So, all those hospitality or catering services that had some problem before July 7th, according to their order... I'm convinced that their order will not comply with it, because, as they do, there will be no beneficiaries, because, if it took eight months to do this, and I think they could and have a way to do it because there are very good technicians in the Council, they could have done it a little better. Then, of the 35 million, I repeat, it's for those who were at ERTE. Those who have been holding up and losing 75%, don't they have the right to another part of the aid? I think he's ill-reformed. As far as tourism is concerned, we have already spoken at the moment and we have repeated today that the model is another one. We understand that Galicia is much more diverse and has many more possibilities to offer than only Santiago's Paths. 80% of Galicia's tourist wealth can't be Santiago's Way. It can be urban tourism, because it's even where there are more jobs and where you can generate more wealth; it can be thermal tourism... but you have to bet, it's not good to make Ourense the thermal city and then we lose a spa, it breaks down, and the board of Galicia doesn't even show up. It can't be that there are hidden balconies and Galician board doesn't do everything possible for value stakes. It's not just a name. It can be environmental. We have six natural parks, and some of them are letting us ruin. We also have the Atlantic island one, let's put it in value. We have a winter station -- Manzaneda -- closed the other day, and the tourists who didn't find the winter station open, nor did they give them other alternatives to keep them in Galicia. But, in any case, the indicators speak of foreign tourism, which has evolved most in recent years. Tell us if there's a deal with the airlines or cruises to transfer that tourism. In any case, this, as we speak, passes, and late comes, but, if they arrive, welcome to provide...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u94	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u95	...—now finished, President—the data, for knowing where the tourist flows are, for knowing the supply and demand we have, and, on the basis of it, planning. Let's not start by sharing 80% of Xacobeo without knowing what our potential is and, above all, what the economic and social objective we pursue with tourism. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u96	Thank you, Mr. Tabares. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u97	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Aranguena, xenophobia is to treat immigrants as commodities and spread them all over the country without talking to the competent authorities to provide them with the humanitarian aid they need. That's why I told them they have no soul or heart. That's how you treated immigrants. That, and that's the xenophobia you say, and there's it installed in the Government of Spain. If that's a xenophobic attitude, it's from the Government of Spain, which is what treated them as commodities and what didn't provide them with humanitarian aid, health aid, or social assistance that they need when they come from their countries of poverty, Mr. Aranguena. [[Applause]] Mr. Vice President, I'd tell you that maybe we have to create a council of truth, like there's a ministry of truth, right? Because so much lie, so much falsehood, so much half truth cannot be answered in such a short time. But, well, I think the Greeks and the Greeks know who tells them the truth and who lies to them, and every time they're asked in the polls they put each other in their place. They want a government to tell them the truth; that's why every four years they still trust the People's Party. Look, Mr Tabaretes, defending Galician interests is defending the most important activities in our country. I don't know if you're aware that tourism is 11% of GDP and 12% of employment, and you, for tourism, dedicate 40 seconds. Look, it seems bad to you that we demand from the Government of Spain that Galicia, that tourism, that Xacobeo has more weight in the state accounts. We will continue to ask Galicia to have more weight in state budgets, we will continue to ask the State to lower the tourist VAT to 4%, and we will continue to ask the State to give them direct help, because they cannot continue to close hotels and tourist sites, and to destroy jobs. [[Applause]] Of course, we will continue to demand all these things from the Government of Spain, which we believe are important to Galicia, in spite of you, ladies and gentlemen. Look, I told them to talk more to people, to step on less carpets, to get out of office, and now I add: to leave Facebook a little more and go to the street, Mr. Tabares, because, indeed, people are getting help. But, look, when Junta made the decision to close the hospitality—because the Government of Spain disagreed with the second wave of the pandemic and delegated the decisions to the autonomous communities—he made it accompanied by direct aid to that sector, to the difference of the Government of Spain, which, when he closed the hostel and when he closed the night shift in August, he devoted zero euros to these economic activities, Euro for these economic activities! I'm looking for euros! I invited Mr. Arunguena to this rostrum, in the second round, and told us which were the direct aids of the Government of Spain to the inn. And he said, now, now. But he didn't say anything, because nothing can say: zero euros from the Government of Spain for the hospitality, for tourism, for the sectors most hit by the economic crisis. Look, ladies and gentlemen, they haven't even asked Europe for any specific plans: "Spain hasn't asked the European Union for any specific tourism aid plans." Not even the European Union, when it is one of the strategic sectors of the country, when it generates thousands of jobs, when it does a lot of economic activity for all sectors that are related to it, because food activity... They're not just going to the inn, they're going to talk to the delights of the squares, they're asking who's selling the product they've sold to the inn. There are many sectors affected by the closure of the hostel. You don't care about hospitality or tourism. Look, we do care about all this, and we also care about coordination. You were talking about discouragement. Discoordinated are in the Government of Spain, which in the morning they say one thing, in the evening they contradict themselves and then, well... You're still supporting that government. You said here today that maybe it was the last pact. Let's see if it's true! Let's see if it's true! Because, look, when Mr. Zapatero ruled, you supported the State's budgets for years and years in a row. Now they don't want to make the same mistake. Although Mr. Zapatero's budgets were detrimental to Galicia, you, peace, peace, every year; they supported them until they were left without representatives in Madrid, because the Greeks and the Greeks said they did not want an ally of socialism in Madrid. And now you're taking good note, and I'm glad, I'm glad, but take note also in the administrations that hang with them. [[Murmurs.]] In Galicia there is coordination with the Clinical Committee, with the Committee of Experts, with names and names... by the way, despite the fact that, as you said, Mr. Vice-President, we have fewer members of the Assistant Police Unit. And despite the fact that there was a socialist Member who, when he came to the office of the Supreme Prosecutor of Galicia, told him that we needed more police force, then voted against increasing the troops of the Assistant Police Unit, so necessary for a lot of things, but above all for safety on the Road. Now they're doing a great job -- that I want from here to congratulate and claim the work that the Police Unit is doing in this pandemic -- monitoring that all the measures that are being dictated by the Clinical Committee are being carried out. [[Applause]] It's over, Mr. Vice President. We've seen how the Union put forward the ERTE's money, when thousands of people were not paying it because the Government of Spain didn't pay them. You insist on what we do... but it's just that, look, it's that they're the affected Greeks, they're the ones who don't charge the ERTE, Mr Tabaret. How are we not going to claim the Government of Spain to pay the ERTEs to the Greeks and the Greeks who don't charge? And you have to do it to Galician Union...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u98	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u99	It seems bad to you that I am shooting at the Government of Spain. For as long as it is to defend Galicia, the Greeks and the Greeks, I will do it; always, always. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Paula Prado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Close the show. First Vice-President and President's Adviser, Justice and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, as in the previous case, I'm trying to answer what they told me and it's easy with you, Mr. Aranguena. This is the third time we have an opportunity to debate in Parliament and I will already know it; and besides, forgive me for telling you -- it's a personal impression -- with you it's very useful to interpret it, just to have a stopwatch in your hand, to know how long you have and see what your priorities are. You have 5 minutes, attendances for opposition groups have time charged and, well, more than half the time there's no tourism problems, there's no pandemic problems, there's no hospitality problems, no matter about the infected, no matter about the emergencies, no matter about the economic aid. The important thing for you — it was more than half the time you had — is VOX, Borgen — that I saw her too, frankly, but I think you had five minutes to talk about so many subjects because I would try to talk about more important issues. So I'm going to get to know your priorities and I have to tell you that the priorities of the Government of Galician Union are different and, therefore, I don't want to spend my time talking about something that I think is not important at this time of the people who are listening to us and that you care about, for example, how are the aid going to be, what real help will you have right now when they need it? You, of course, go on... you did it in your first intervention and you did it again in your second intervention. You're the government's hero who compromises everything and doesn't pay for it and says, well, if they're not transferred, they're committed, what else does it give? It doesn't matter! It's just, of course, if they're engaged and they don't arrive... people want to charge. If we tell the self-employed, the hostiers, all those who are asking for help: listen, you know that months and months can pass and we commit ourselves, but another thing is that you're coming and this doesn't matter. It's very important, Mr. Aranguena! So before you make these grandloquent ads of how much you give us, you have to know if they gave us it to know if it's really useful, and while you don't confuse it. And you do it again, and you make that 800 account again... listen, and when a hoster now asks for some help and receives from the different lines up to a maximum of 9,200 euros, what do we have to tell him? No, no, you have to pay them back because Mr. Arunguena doesn't match his bills, and therefore, as it is more than 800, you have to return them because something must be wrong! [[Laughter]] Because you speak publicly as a parliamentarian — and it has that public impact — and it continues to confuse and insist that more than EUR 800 will not correspond to it. I'm going to tell you, when a person gets a snake and some are getting more than 800 euros — much more — what do you have to say? Because who knows what orders are -- of course, the Galician Board because the other -- the money without transfer is very hard to share -- is it you? Wouldn't it be much more useful to talk about how we talked to the hospitality associations to deal with the aid and from there call them as soon as possible and start sharing them. I think that's much more useful than protesting and demanding others what you'll never demand of yours. And so what I was telling you at the beginning, and that's why I want to insist a lot that we all have to put on our side and all governments and all administrations have to contribute is much more important than you truly believe. Although there are decisions that are not ours, indeed - Mrs Prado said - the night's leisure did not close it ourselves, the Government of Spain has closed it. Now, whoever had to meet immediately to give them the help is us. Today also nighttime leisure is still waiting for that government shock plan that never arrives. And as you said, you already promised us 1 billion euros that we're going to fall next year, because they keep waiting to see when they fall, and also tell them that you're committed, paying is another completely different thing. I would ask you here — just like I asked you when I talked about the Path of the Lights and when I talked about something else — a little serious, to know how things are. It's not the same as making proclamations that after having to plan and govern, it's not the same honestly. And, Mr. Tabares, I was talking about the consultant's report, the non-binding report. Oh, of course, there's everyone. The consultant is a judicial advisory body superior to the Government of Galician Union and we listen to him, which he doesn't want to listen to... each one of us with his responsibility and attitude. This is what's happening now, that many sanctions imposed on the confinement, in the first part of the pandemic, are taking the courts. Well, of course, if the legal reports are the least and each one has to do whatever he wants, well, of course the Galician Board won't. And that's why, once you're sitting legally on a criterion, what we're trying to do is help, it's contributing. If this is about being effective and if anyone is failing to comply with health rules, he will have to pay — never better said — economically, above all, so that he does not do it again and does not put us all in danger. So we tried to bring solutions and we talked to the municipalities, and we gave it the data before; today -- it's yesterday's data, clearly today there are more -- 40 municipalities of all the political colors that adhered to a voluntary agreement. What you don't want to adhere to... institutional relationships are for that, solutions are being created, and then there's the volunteerness of what you want to solve in a simpler way — in our opinion — or more operational, or that you want to do it on your own. No one here imposes anything on anyone, now, you have to be effective, you have to collaborate, and you have to put immediate solutions at a time as complicated as this on the table. I was talking about mediation, which is a matter of great interest to you, and I think it's nice because we've been betting on mediation for a long time. It's wrong that the data -- it's okay -- we signed agreements in the 7 cities and with all the schools, except in the case of Lugo; and next year you're going to have them again, so you stayed with 2 that were unsigned, grabbed that and set aside for everything. But we've been working before and don't worry that year 2021 with that conditioner telling you that mediation can't just be public mediation -- this has to be a system of conviction and not just functioning because there's public resources -- we're going to continue supporting because we also believe in mediation. From the supplied material, listen, I'd ask you for some caution. It is that, indeed, there was very little material to supply in March, but you know why, because the Government you invested two months earlier said that they were taking care of everything; and therefore he backed — that at last he didn't pick anything up because he had nothing — but he didn't leave us to the others. We were going to try to buy them and they were saying that it was not because everything was intervened by order of the General Administration of the State, the Government of Spain, and that's why there was no material to supply, and that's why we had to try to get it under the stones to give it to those who had nothing, starting with the Town Councils. Also councils of the Socialist Party, which I suppose would speak to his Socialist Government in Madrid and tell them that they had nothing but could not have them because there was some sort of ghost copio where the mascarillas didn't appear anywhere. And we get them and we get them more and more, and normalize the supply, and more than 1 million masks supplied at zero cost. By the way, for all the municipalities and all the social services centers, I would miss more!, Junta is to help and propose solutions. Well, criticism is very easy, but it doesn't lead anywhere. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And he told me about... listen, I, of course, admit that every order of help at such a critical moment as this one, with so many applicants, with so much need, so urgently to have the help... everything is better but we try to do our best. That's why I say those proclamations of confusing the people who are asking for them and analyzing them, even professionals, managers and consultants help little. Therefore, all the contribution to improve perfect! I can assure you they're very thoughtful. And we talk about them — I insist again because this is something important — with the professionals, the associations in the sector that are going to be addressed. And that we turn it around and correct things. You were thinking to me here — I was told to pay attention — that they are only for the establishments that are closed from 7 October, that's when the orders to close were given! It's just that they could be opened before. It is very difficult, those who had been closed before would not have been because the Galician board had issued an order to close because the Clinical Committee said so — which was from that moment on when we put help on the table. I'm going back to the shock plan that's promising us and that's not yet. And from there, listen, it's confusing; what we're asking for is a low -- and I also said in my first part of the appearance -- of 45% of the benefit over the year 2019, normal year; the state is applying for other things -- not for these, that don't give them -- much higher criteria. The professionals asked us to go down to 45% and drop it, compared to last year's but closed year's end, Mr Tabares. [[Murmurs.]] But this, it's okay, I'm asking you, if you have any doubts, it's good to consult but not confuse people, that these things have to be clear because you have to be the recipient of these aids. And finally, Mr President, I have already been told on the occasion of my appearance to explain the vice-presidency's objectives. I know that tourism is much more than Xacobeo, of course, we are lucky to have an autonomous community, I think one of the best places in the world. And saying the best is always complicated. But I truly believe — just as many people believe it, and believe it, the 5 million tourists who came in 2019—, man, you won't deny me talking about Jacob in a Xacobeo Year that we've been waiting for 11 years has a certain logic. You can't accuse me that we're talking about Jacobabeo a little more than a year away from the Year of Jacobabeo, and that we're taking this opportunity. And it's not because of your own conviction, too, because in the short time that I've been talking to tourism officials, I've had an opportunity to talk to a lot of people, to the sector that's particularly tight at the moment, and everybody says the same thing to you: listen, step on the accelerator on the subject of Jacob, which is our great opportunity. And if you had talked -- I don't know if you're talking -- with the representatives of other autonomous communities and with comrades from other autonomous communities, they all say the same thing to me: listen, what luck you have, at the time when you're most needed, you're going to have a Xacobeo Year, I hope you enjoy it well; and if you take advantage of it, well. That's why it was important to promote in the media that I referred to earlier, these 8 million euros, because the Iranians are good to all, so let's take advantage of this this this year, not forgetting everything else that's added. And those who come here for the Year of Jacob will enjoy a lot of things, and they will come back — which is what we want, which is one of the great problems. And let the pilgrims who come once don't go to the end of the Way, who stay here more days and above all that repeat, and who contain it; and let us get to the record numbers when it all becomes normal again. But let's take advantage of Xacobeo, who has that great advantage that they have no other. So, ladies and gentlemen, in a very difficult situation, in a very complicated year, we will continue to work, we will continue to apply objective criteria, we will continue to be guided by a Clinical Committee that exists in Galicia and makes decisions and is known. We'll continue to rejoice at the small triumphs that things are gradually getting better, I think it's something we should all do. Let's not lose the perspective of this is very complicated, that there are difficult times ahead, but that little by little we are moving forward and not taking steps back we will return to a normal life, which is all we want. These proclamations: "we have conquered the virus," "we are stronger," which we all know of Mr. Sánchez, and these sleeves that are promised to us now: don't worry because thousands and billions of euros will come; as if it were a gift from heaven and had no conditioner and we were enjoying them now and they were no more than promises today. I think this can't make us forget that the serious work and the planned work at the end is what results, people eventually obsess us and also act accordingly when we ask for confidence. And in a very difficult moment, it's when the governments who really work and the Galician Union are shown to want to work, of course, and they really want to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u102	Thank you, Vice President. [[Applause]] As has been reported, we now proceed to a change in the agenda, in particular a question to the Government. Question of Da María Leticia Gallego Sanromán and three other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the forecasts of the Council of Galicia regarding the guarantee of direct aid to travel agencies to avoid their closure in 2021
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u103	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u104	Ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, President. Good morning, Vice President. In the current pandemic, the tourism sector has been and is undoubtedly one of the most hit economic sectors. Income from almost all tourist companies is scarce or void since we are in this situation of health and economic crisis. Within the tourism sector one of the sectors most affected by the pandemic is that of travel agencies. Since the first months of the year, they have been suffering constant cancellations of the reservations made, which means that all the work they have done since 2019 for the planned travels in 2020 has not benefited. Travel agencies had to return 100% of all of the customer's reserves, with zero income. In Galicia at the beginning of 2020 there were more than 600 sales points with more than 2,000 direct employees, in addition to all indirect employees, which face the end line of the year and the beginning of the next one with very bad prospects. It is estimated that 2 out of 3 travel agencies will close their doors at the beginning of 2021. The Plan for the Reactivation of the Cultural and Tourist Sectors against the Effects of Covid-19 has been developed since the Galician Union. A plan in which the agencies were practically excluded from actions that did not provide a minimum real reactivation of this sector. The tourist bond—which today has spoken of it—for, well, this tourist bond promoted by the German Government and its form of articulate has been poorly exposed since its presentation. On the one hand, it does not take account of the operation and way of life of travel agencies, noting that it is impossible to apply 15% discounts on products intended for users of these bonds, when most of the commissions they receive are no more than 10% gross. They are now faced with a quite important problem to ensure business continuity, which is the renewal of bail and civil liability insurance. Insurance that conditions travel agencies and their licenses and, consequently, the continuity of the activity. They're receiving letters from insurance companies, where they're confirmed that they won't be renovating their policies and others where, despite their acceptance of this renewal, they're being informed of a rise in insurance premiums of at least 15%; premiums starting from at least EUR 400. In the face of this desperate situation of travel agencies, the question, Mr President, is whether the Galician Union will guarantee direct aid to travel agencies and whether such aid will collect measures for fixed expenses and renewal of insurance. I see that at the root of this question you have just announced, in your previous intervention, some help for travel agencies. I'm glad you picked up...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u105	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. It's over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u106	...this initiative to take action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u107	Response from the Vice-President, Prime Minister, Justice and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Gallego, no, don't confuse yourself. I, out of respect, think that's what we have to do. It's actually a question about travel agencies. There are lines of help that have been planned for a long time and I think this is the place to announce it. I could announce it in any other forum, but I think the place -- if you ask me about travel agencies -- is this to announce something we've been working on a long time ago. This is not improvised. It's a bit what I was trying to say in my previous appearance. Planning is important and listening -- sometimes you have to listen to what you don't want to hear, because we're at a very complicated time for the tourist sector -- it's very necessary, it's essential. So, of course, we know that travel agencies — I have said in a number of public interventions in recent months — are probably the tourism sector, the subsector -- so to speak — which is most severely suffering from the effects of coward 19 without any doubt. We're talking about businesses that are based on people's mobility, on businesses that are based on planning with a certain amount of time. Who can plan right now for a lot of travel stuff, above all, and sometimes based on group formation, which integrates into tourist packages? Look at the whole topic that has to do with the groups and the meeting of people right now. So, of course, they're very damaged, but we've known this from the beginning. And in that tourist reactivation plan that we did months ago, in the first phase of the pandemic, talking to the majority associations of the sector, which are two, Atrega and Agavi, there were already plans for specific aid -- they are paying and they are justifying it -- of EUR 500,000 for the sector, especially to redirect tourist packages and products that are being offered. I think this, in the end, was noticed. It was a joint effort, but in the best data we had in the summer months in Galicia regarding the whole of tourism, no doubt the travel agencies had quite to do with it. Twenty fewer points, and then there were general programs from which travel agencies also benefited, such as the Reactiv Tourism Program, with 5.9 million euros; the digital check, with 7 million; Igape liquidity lines, which also accessed travel agencies, and of course the line that is now -- not the specific one for the hospitality, but the rest -- that's why it's so important to know the compatibility. Sixty-seven million euros -- of the 82 -- are also for travel agencies, which the vast majority are either autonomous or micro-enterprises, and they can benefit. And of those 35,000 applications there are several travel agencies. And, of course, the tourist bonus - if I don't have time to talk about it in the second part of my intervention - is fundamental to agencies. Hey!, it was easy to say that this -- the tourist bonus -- had not been done through travel agencies. I'm sure many hotels and many restaurants would prefer it to be done directly, but travel agencies had to enter, without any doubt, into such an incentive, and entered. I can tell you that there are many tourist packages of the tourist bono hired through travel agencies. You're confused about who must bear that extra 15%...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u109	Thank you, Vice President, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u110	...but we can clarify it in the second part of the intervention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u111	Thank you. For the reply, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u112	Thank you, President. Mr. Vice-President, if you know from the beginning the problem of travel agencies, I have to tell you that we've been in the pandemic for nine months and that the announcement has done so today. Well, I don't know, I could do it before. [[Applause]] I'll also ask you to meet with the Travel Agencies' Rights Platform, so that it also contains with first-hand what's happening to all the help and so on. And, well, this announcement that you just made about tourist bonds and insurance I hope it will materialize immediately and not remain in a mere advertisement. We would like it to appear in the budgets of 2021 - which is still in time to put these aids - because travel agencies, commerce, hospitality and so many other sectors want no more promises, they want to make, Mr. Rueda; they want to make them. Look, I'll tell you. In the negative balance sheet of the first months of the year, we must add also the bad summer season, the new wave of cancellations due to the perimeter limitations and the decapitalization derived from the deposits delivered to service providers, such as, for example, the airlines, and not returned, or the suspension of these, that the agencies have reimbursed the travellers and that the airlines refuse to return them within the deadlines set by law. Many Greek travel agencies have decided to close permanently. Mr. Vice President, your doors are closed. And so many others are trying to hold on to an online office, because it's impossible to cover basic rent and even supply costs. Mr. Rueda, tourism has to be a strategic sector for the public policies of the Galician Union in the face of this great economic crisis, as our group has been defending since the beginning of this legislation. The Group of the People's Party has to make a more ambitious and transformative investment of Welsh tourism...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u113	Thank you very much, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u114	The problem is not saving time, the problem...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u115	End, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u116	...is saving tourism...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u117	Time's up, ma'am... [[Applause]] You have the floor, for the Government's reply, the first Vice-President and President-in-Office of Justice and Tourism, Mr Rueda Valenzuela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Gallego, that is, these ads that I'm doing are things that we're going to pay for with the 2021 budgets. You, what did you want, that in May I had talked about things we were going to do in 2021? That's what you guys do for stuff, and then there's months and months and months without paying for it. No, I announce now and we'll do it now. [[Applause]] By the way, in the appearance I had of budgets - a long appearance - the Socialist Party Member did not at any time ask about travel agencies. I suppose for you it was not a priority at that time and it is now, which I think is very good, because for us it is already from the very first moment. Of course we know how they're going because we're meeting with associations. I ask you a respect for the majority associations of travel agencies, eh! because, of course, if I meet with them, that's not good because they don't meet me with the other one. So, is it that those two who mostly represent the sector, without any doubt, have no representativeness for you? They have it, and I can assure them they say very hard things -- and that's what I meant before -- when they tell you the truth, you wouldn't want to listen as a public official because you'd like to hear that things are better, but things are the way they are. That's why we act, and we act from the beginning. He was talking to you before 500,000 euros directly addressed to the associations, which are now being justified; he was talking to you about the 63 million that can now be requested and that they are already being charged for micropemes and self-employed; he was talking to you about the digital check; he was talking about the Igape credits; he was talking to you about the tourist bonus, which would be very ill-planned but has 98.5% of applicants right now. All this is this year, it's real, and now we're talking about 2021. I'm telling you, we, with the money we have, act, make them available to those who need them and the money that we're going to have immediately crafted everything, and now, three weeks from the beginning of 2021, we're already talking about what we're going to do right away with the 2021 money. Besides, it's ads that are useless and that don't solve anything to people when you see them face to face and say, "How are you going to help me now and how are you going to help me in three months? So that's what we're doing, and of course there will be measures. Hey! The safe house is very important, they asked us to. In fact, the first idea came from travel agencies: "You have to do this, it's essential for us to be able to hire and attract people. That there would be that insurance would be great." Well, let's get the insurance. Indeed, bail deposits are a problem. Three hundred euros right now for an autonomous who has a travel agency is important money. Well, the Galician Union will help them so they can put them in. Listen, but it'll help you when you have to put it, in the year 2021, with the 2021 budget. You tell me, no, this was what you had to say six or seven months ago. It doesn't take advantage of those who need the money. Seven months ago they took advantage of the money they received all these months, and now they're interested in knowing what they're going to get next year. Just like we're going to help the wholesale agencies, who can't get access to the aid of micropemes, but who bring a lot of tourists to Galicia and need the support of the Galician Union. Just like we'll go on with the tourist bonus...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u119	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u120	...and we will expand it to more people, so that people will come, just as we will continue with any real cause...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u121	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u122	...to help those who really are going through it, and travel agencies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u123	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u124	...they're not having a good time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u125	Thank you very much, Vice President. Now, with the next change of agenda, we move on to the second of the appearances. Comparison of the Sea Councillor, on his own request, to report the general forecasts and lines of action of his department
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u126	The sea councillor, Mrs. Quintana Carballo, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. I compare today in this House to note the proposed action which must mark the direction of the Sea Council for these four years. The proposal must be adapted to a question such as the pandemic of covid-19, which, of course, affects all maritime fishing activity, but that does not indicate that we should turn away from the major challenges and problems that arise as a result of an uncertain Brexit process, the practical application of the agreement on the new Fempa, the determination of TACs and quotas for 2021 or the orientation of the new control regulation. I would like to begin by pointing out our commitment to the management and management issues of the sector, with the strengthening of co-governance as a basic element, so that we will strengthen contact with the sector in all directions. In this line, we will set up an advisory network in coastal areas aimed at supporting project formulation, implementing requests for assistance and speeding up execution and justification in matters related to the support of the European Maritime and Fisheries Funds. We want to continue to maintain the line of work in common with the sector to continue to move forward in that regulation linked to the social protection of professionals from the sea, as we have done with the adequacy of the Community directive which sets out the requirements for shops and which must now be transposed into the Spanish framework for the recovery of effectiveness. That's how we did it with the boutiques, and so we want to do it with other issues such as how to adjust the regulations on time control on board fishing boats or how to keep up to date the provisions that govern the reduction coefficients for seafarers, also working so that the advantages of the second Spanish log can reach the fishing fleet. Facilitating maritime-fishing activity is a task that goes beyond extractive work. Not everything is based on quotas and TACs, where work is always intense, nor only on the brink of every council of December ministers in Brussels. In this sense, Galicia's proposal is based on the consideration of a quota stability that could well be given by its biennial character, as well as by betting on the inclusion of the impact of climate change, which should vary to improve their distribution according to fishing areas. We are demanding and we will continue to work to ensure that the activity of our fleet abroad is carried out on an equal footing with other international fleets. We want to extend the anti-fining rules that apply to us and support the possibilities for all ships to fish in third countries in a sustainable and respectful manner, as the Greeks do. But the most important line in this field of fishing must necessarily enhance and make the future of the fishing sector of the artisanal coast competitive. In this area, we have as the key to the action plan for handicraft coastal fishing... - do I understand? - of minor arts in Galicia by 2030. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Assentment.]] In particular, this plan agrees with aspects such as research and knowledge, improvement in the sector, conservation of the environment and efficiency of the fleet, marketing and processing of its products, as well as economic and social aspects, diversification of activities, maritime-fishing cultural heritage and the promotion, dissemination and image of its products. In that same line will frame work in the Marishcan, where we will take forward the Plan of Action of the Galician 2030, with the aim of ensuring sustainable exploitation and conservation of marine resources. This plan will focus on lines aimed at sustainable management and conservation of resources, the protection and recovery of biodiversity and marine ecosystems, socio-economic and employment development, support for product marketing and governance. I mean, we should move forward in lines like that of boosting the semi-growing, regenerating the unproductive areas, expanding the production of seed and further curbing furtiveism, all without neglecting the good march in the sanitation of the rivers and the empowerment of the vital commercial channels at this time, but also in the future. In aquaculture, we cannot and do not want to give up Galician leadership in the aquaculture sector, always from the perspective that the wide potential of this sector and its development must be compatible with the conservation of the environment and its fishing and marine use. To recover and consolidate this leadership, it is necessary to guide the course marked in the Galician Strategy of Aquaculture, which consists of the document of articulation and organization that will have to manage the planning and management of water activity in Galicia towards the 2030 horizon. We continue to point out our willingness to go hand in hand with the sector and count on its co-orientation to have the right instruments for administrative decision-making and to defend the maximum guarantee of compatibility and environmental respect for farms. The jewel of the crown remains and will continue to be the mexillon, so we will continue to enhance its cultivation, strengthening its traceability and promoting innovation in this sector, so that it can make optimal use of European funds and an increase in the added value obtained for this product. Speaking of added value, the transformation and marketing aspect that we propose goes to that line, as achieving the highest price and yield is a question we must take to heart. We're going to work on the articulation of a line that leads us to the reorientation of the maritime-fishing trading system, because we understand that Galicia must put in place an initiative of its fishing trading system to suit the new social and productive situation. This planning, in which it has been working for several months, has its basis in three aspects: in the organization of the supply, focusing on the aggregation of the supply of products and on its supply and availability; in the adequacy of the supply to demand, based on new consumption habits; and in the stimulation of consumption, based on the conduct of campaigns to promote the products of the sea and their consumption. Moreover, planning for the future of transformation is also fundamental. In this regard, we will point out as basic the task of updating and renewing the strategy plan for the conservation, which had its horizon in 2020, to bring it to 2020-2030, and we will bet on bringing forward the drafting, in line with the sector, of the Green Paper on Frozen in Galicia. All this planning must be based on legal security for companies that transform and market products from the sea, especially those that settle in the coastal strips, and that must have the capacity to schedule their investments and the possibility of work as soon as possible. But it is clear that this proposal must also have another burden of betting for dynamising fish and seafood consumption, both fresh and processed. We must achieve a stimulation of that consumption, not only in times of pandemic, but for stages of normal life. To that end, we must move forward in the reformulation and updating of campaigns aimed at children and children and continue the campaigns aimed at adults. This expansion of consumption must be sustained on an indelible maximum: food security of these products, for which we must strengthen the control tasks of sanitary conditions, done for which Intemar is key. In this sense, we are already strengthening the functioning of the same centre. In this area, there will also be a relevant role for Coast Guards, where we will work to complete the efficiency of the Plan of Struggle, which has already had good fruits. We will strengthen coordination with the confrries and provide new media, such as the use of drones. Coast Guard will also strengthen its facet as a key element in maritime safety and rescue. To that end, we understand that we must work to achieve better funding for this service, especially since we are the autonomous community with a greater spread of means and that this savings situation for the state must have a fair return. In the wake of the fight against pollution, we will advocate an expansion of the work against the presence of marine waste and we will articulate a plan of struggle and awareness against marine waste that integrates all the measures and initiatives carried out in this area of action and which include measures of awareness, knowledge and direct struggle against the waste present in the marine environment. The Plan to Combat Accidental Marine Pollution in Galicia, known as the Camgal Plan, will play a key role, in which we are working, by adapting to new emerging regulations and by better integrating the means and protocols based on accumulated experience. Ladies and gentlemen, if we have to point out two issues that mark competitiveness, now and ad futurum, I think we will all agree that these are training and research. In the course of research we must continue to bet on the development of science applied to the sector, whether it develops from the top to the top, for fishing and seafood, or the Technical Unit of Bassura for coastal fisheries. Ladies and gentlemen, within this bet we also want to expand the one that counts with the active participation of the sector and society. We want to expand the same, dynamicizing the collection of data from the Bass Fishing Technical Unit to other fleets on the coast, or the launch of the digital platform Redogal, the observation network of the Greek marine environment, to integrate the information provided by society on the presence of new species or other issues of oceanographic emissions. They'll allow me here to stop me on a topical issue that we should put on the table: the transfer of the Spanish Oceanography Institute media, which we don't give up, but we're going to have to be economically and functionally reorganized, because without it, IEO couldn't respond to the task that the sector is asking you to do. In the course of training, we must continue to add good figures in the enrolments, deepening the output and incorporation of young people and girls in the sector, which makes it essential to expand the practical aspect of teaching, which is why we will continue to bet on the dual FP in this field. We will also facilitate the programming of unregulated training with the creation of a digital platform where we can access the programming of scheduled courses in ports and schools. However, ladies and gentlemen, working for the maritime-fishing sector and its future without abandoning its central role does not escape the fact that we can diversify and complement this activity economically and laborally, a matter which has already been done sufficiently, thanks to the work done by the coastal action groups, first, and by the current local action groups in the fisheries sector. In this line, and with firmness of the general bet that the European Union is making on this kind of budget and work lines, we believe that Xacobeo 2020-2021 can be a stimulus to this path, so we will proceed to the articulation and development of a plan to promote Santiago's roads along the sea. We want to implement a line that promotes the arrival of pilgrims through the Greek docks, running a line of improvement of the raids, mooring points, shelters and foundryers. In addition, marine and fishing tourism can be a new opportunity to generate income and knowledge of activity, reinforcing an aggregate and intangible value that improves the prices of marine products. In this line, we will take advantage of the drafting and development of an action plan, providing a compilation of the presence of cultural, heritage and ethnographic elements. We just want to keep the life of coastal villages and villages rolling around the ports. The ports are and must continue to be economic shocks and, as such, we must continue to bet on them. Planning, then, becomes a fundamental issue, and that stage is already underway with the bid, for 4.7 million euros, of two packages of projects that will allow you to attend more than thirty dredgings and above fifty improvements in port structures. To develop these actions, coordinated and related, it must be a fundamental way of working in improving uses and in the relationship of the docks with the urban contours, in which the transfer of spaces to the municipalities based on the agreements reached in the working group established with Fegamp will be one of the lines to be developed. But if there's something that we can consider as a great bet for these years, it would be focused on people, on getting a generational relief that will ensure the future of activity. Defending the pride of working at sea is a feeling and an attitude, and taking care of it and expanding it must be a constant. So we're going to continue with the filming and launching line of videos and promotional actions that result in better social knowledge of the sector, with particular reference to the reinforcement of the self-esteem of the workers in the sector. Increasing the number of crew of fishing boats and strengthening the delivery of new permex to shellfish are made that must lead us to redouble our bet and in which we have been working for a long time. Improving ships to suit their skills and safety, as well as working on connectivity with land, with loved ones, which are one of the things it costs to leave when it comes to boarding. To adapt ships, it is necessary to renew the fleet, for these cases with public aid from the new FEMPA, and that must not be related to an increase in fishing capacity, since it is limited by TACs and quotas. But having new and appropriate ships would make no sense without training staff and training them to make them profitable and competitive. In this social line, competitiveness will always come — and we know it well — by training, especially by practice, because the sea wants experience. So we promote the extension of dual FP programs to Ribeira and Igafa centers, with the progressive inclusion of new projects in all cycles and the increase of students and students enrolled in them under this formula. In addition, the social recognition of the woman of the world of the sea must also be incorporated in a prominent way within this social bet, a circumstance which must be accompanied by advances in matters such as the allocation of appropriate reduction coefficients for her activity. In this respect, recognizing and expanding the role of the networks and spreading and expanding their field of work must be a constant towards ensuring the future of this profession which is key to fishing. All this bet must be collected in detail in writing a statement on the reform of the common fisheries policy, starting towards 2022, with proposals and demands in the social field, to achieve that appropriate generational remittance and a dignified standard of living and income. In this sense, we propose that the dictatorship be submitted to the adoption of the Galician Fisheries Council and the Galician Parliament and the defence of it before the institutions of the Community's decision-making framework. All these ad futurum measures are marked by a difficult present, and this year and the next one are irremediably marked by the influence of the pandemic of covid-19. By June we had a plan that covered all those dimensions, the Avantemar plan. This plan is crafted around twenty-two measurements, which are integrated into five lines. All of this leads to direct injection or making available to the sector of EUR 77 million, of which an important part has been articulated, through aid orders, for entities managing lengths, nets, people on foot who have ceased their activity and fishing vessels that continue to work and that aim to reflect that activity in economic losses. In addition, towards the future, we want to take forward the already mentioned plan for the reorientation of the maritime-fishing trading system, advocating for the digitization and use of online platforms and door-to-door logistics, in such a way that the commercial channels are supported and can continue to work on remote spots located on our coast. Ladies and gentlemen, in front of us we have that challenge and many issues that are far from the future but that are already coming from the past. I'm telling you about Brexit, the need for better quotas, a good modification of the European Maritime Fisheries Fund or a blue economy, which must integrate all these activities. In Brexit we've been working around in the last few years. Five reports, dozens of meetings, active participation in European forums and events, clear alliance with European fleets and active follow-up of negotiations are a balance sheet in which we have always had a clear objective: to achieve a status quo and an agreement on equal access to water and markets between the European Union and the United Kingdom. Now that we have attended the last trading partners, we do not want fishing to end up as a currency of exchange for the rest of the negotiations. If there is finally no agreement, we want to be prepared, and that is why we call on the Central Government to support measures of continence, such as the adequacy of border inspection points in the ports of Celero and Burela. We must also just define, with fine stroke, a basic and fundamental tool as the new European Maritime Fund and Fisheries and Aquaculture. The new FEMPA must provide us with support to adapt the activity and the future and to do so in simplified and agile terms. We are also in the final line of the definition of another important issue in the implementation of the common fisheries policy, such as the activity control regime. Flexibility and adaptability of weighing and transport, heavy fishing tracking charges or control of discards that don't invade the camera boat are materials we work on and we hope to achieve a good result. All this planning must fit into a development of the blue economy that Europe is proposing, that reality demands and that the future needs. Any progress that is made must be worked on the maritime-fishing sector, active participation and seeking a joint benefit. We have examples of fishing powers that follow him and that rise again in leaders in the maritime economy; in that group of regions and countries we want him to remain Galicia. I'm done, and I'm doing it for the challenge of the nearest future in time: the fixing of TACs and quotas for 2021. The European Commission's proposal on TACs and fishing quotas for 2021 is clearly negative, especially with regard to the Cantabrian-West Side, but we must remember that it is not definitive. In addition, he excludes the Gran Sol and France cupboards, waiting for the negotiations between the European Union and the United Kingdom on the post-Brexit relationship, so the proposal that emerges in this area will be analysed almost without time before decisions are taken at the Council of Fisheries Ministers next week. In this council, Galicia will represent the autonomous Spanish fishing communities again. We will work with solid arguments to mitigate these cuts and convince the Commission that a common sustainable fisheries policy must be applied. We also ask the Central Government to add arguments and reports to achieve a positive result in this negotiation. In this sense, Galicia has been working from the very first moment to obtain the socio-economic data and arguments, which are necessary to soften impact decisions, making them appear before the competent bodies. This is the case of the potential impact report of negative quota adjustment in the Cantabrico-Northwest quay, and estimates that Galicia would bear 60% of the total amount of economic decline that Spain would suffer as a result of negative quota adjustment in the Cantabrico-Northwest quay by 2021. With the existing data from the proposal on 1 December, we would add 12.5 million economic cuts. This adjustment would be assumed differently by the fleet, with severe impact, of more than 150,000 euros of potential loss by boat on the trawl, and with a fleet of 128 smaller craft boats, which have in these quotas more than 25 percent of their billing, so a decrease in it could result in their profitability. We are, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of a complex future, where the risks are shown at every step and where all efforts are few. I was telling them last week that we should all row, because we're all on the same boat. That's why I ask them again for support for the sector, for the professionals of the sea and for the future of the people who live by and by the sea. I ask you for support for the future that hopes to move around the sea, I ask you for support for the sea, for the sea of Galicia, for the sea that moves us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u128	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We turn around the parliamentary groups. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Otero Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u129	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Welcome, Counselor. The truth is, I wanted to start with the end of Mrs. Counsellor's intervention when she said and asked for support, that we all go on that same boat, hopefully leaving in the same direction. I was already telling you the other day at the budget meeting that my group, the PSdeG Parliamentary Group, will be next to the board, as long as measures are taken and rule throughout the sector, and I therefore reiterate that offer of support from our parliamentary group. You also talked about how we found ourselves in an exceptional situation, in a situation of the coward-19, in this pandemic, and from my group I want to make a recognition to all those workers in the sea sector, a sector that has been declared essential in this pandemic, and that has always been in the forefront despite all the risks that it brought, so that none of us had missed a fundamental element in our diet. [[Applause]] You appear on this camera today to explain the general lines of your advice, but of course you must remember that these are projects, which you want to carry out, by the council, for throughout the year 2021. True, listening to you, we agreed on many of the things that were exposed here. I liked something that you had already moved forward in the Committee on Budgets, that of strengthening co-governance, with this establishment of these support offices, especially in the processing of these European funds, and we recognize this as a great act. We have certainly also asked for it to facilitate, therefore, that process — we know it is overwhelming — of European funds, and we hope that it will bring about the desired success. But, of course, you were talking about those general lines today. I am sorry that it is a bit repetitive again in what I said in the Committee on Budgets on the other day, but, of course, to put into practice those lines that you are presenting, apart from having political will, the fundamental thing — I repeat — is that you have to have money and that you have to have a budget share. It's true that we said it the other day: the Sea Council's departure increases by 2021, but it increases much less than other councils or even other departments. She didn't like him speaking twelve years later and twelve budgets later, of the 48 million less than with regard to government budgets presided over by Mr. Tourin, but it's just that even the 2021 central government budgets rise by 25% with respect to those last budgets of the People's Party. These lines, many of them, we hope they get to the right port, but I repeat that, of course, we need a budget allocation and then they are executed. Let me tell you that you talked about the whole sector, but I think that throughout your intervention you forgot some arts in the sector, and for example you forgot to make a bet for a sustainable, selective and respectful art with the marine environment as art is the way. We have had a lot of discussion in this Chamber about this art, and the People's Parliamentary Group always votes against the initiatives that often bring the opposition to this chamber, that we remember that it is an art that is carried out in a craftsmanship and predominantly in inner auras; and there goes the point of the matter: competition is from the Council itself, because so it is attributed to the Statute itself of autonomy. That's why we always ask them to govern by counting on the whole sector, and we don't want to think that this Government of Galicia because it takes measures based on the political profitability that it can bring to them; at best they think that these 429 ships will not give much profitability in electoral terms and banners to their fate. But, of course, when you talk about planning and what you're planning to do, let me have my group here, because I doubt they're going to carry out and move all these promises to fact, because, of course, I'm not tired of repeating it, the budget execution of the Sea Council is very low. In 2018 they left behind 75 million euros, 48% of their consulting budget, and in 2019 they left out of running 50% of their current credit and 60% of their initial credit. So with these levels of execution at which you get used to your counseling, you can hardly carry out many of the performances you talked about here today. And, of course, many of these performances are embedded within that 723A program, and I repeat again — and I will not tire of repeating it —: the execution data of this program speak for themselves. In 2017 they were left without running 6 out of every 10 euros budgeted, in 2018 only 23 % of the budgeted credit was executed and in 2019 only 36% of the budgeted credit was executed. So these are the numbers and this is the reality. You were talking about the great bet of the council for the year 2021, focused on people and focused on ensuring the generational relief, and, amazingly, when you have to make that determined bet, which is in the budgets, we see how we lowered the budget game for fishing lessons, despite the fact that we continue to lose workers in the fishing sector. From 2009 to 2019, with the 2019 closed exercise, 15% of members of the special sea regime have been lost. You also spoke — but it passed so far above — about the healing of the rivers, but it said nothing else; it named it, but it did not stop in the healing of the rivers. And you, like me, know that there's a lot of work to be done here and you haven't spent a minute talking about the healing of laughter. Something fundamental for our sector to work is to have a healthy laugh, and you didn't say anything about it. You also spoke of the Coast Guard Service, a service that increasingly assumes greater functions, which participates in the entire chain, from extraction to laying at the disposal of the resource, through transport and marketing, but, on the other hand, we see how the vacancies are not covered, and there is no true professional career — there are very long interinstances— nor are vacations covered. That's the bet of a service that takes on more and more competences. In fact, we share with you the worrying starting situation that we have with this proposal from the European Commission on the allocation of TACs and quotas for the year 2021. We also agree that there is a margin of improvement, and we hope that, as has happened in other exercises, in this Fisheries Ministers' Council which will be held next week, and in what you often accompany the Minister, these expectations will certainly be improved. It's not a closed document. We have seen how other previous exercises have improved these proposals from the European Commission. In these negotiations, therefore, it will be a priority for the Ministry of Fisheries to defend the economic and social sustainability of the different fisheries and the need for the sector of higher levels of TAC. The Ministry of Fisheries will flag social sustainability to correct the proposed reductions. In this very premonition to which you also alluded — and this is a preliminary of the Commission, because we are at the expense of what comes out of the Brexit results — there is already a reduction in quotas in thirteen species. Therefore, in order to consolidate the high standards achieved by the Galician fleet, in scientific knowledge and in the application of environmental measures, it will be necessary to improve the knowledge of the socio-economic component of fishing. And here, Counsellor, I would like to thank you — I know — for your department also constantly insisting on the socio-economic value of fishing in our Autonomous Community. But in this sense, I think it's essential to work together between administrations and also with the sector, to be able to move an objective and real vision of fishing activity, to highlight the positive aspects in which it contributes to fishing, and to move it to a society that every day requires more information about the products it consumes. We therefore believe, hope and hope that there will be an improvement in the Commission's proposal, which we consider to be a very bad proposal and a bad proposal for our fleet. But we have to work, we have to have technical and scientific reports that assess the industry's claims, and what's left now is debate and negotiation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u130	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u131	—Finished, President. We play a lot, and in order to achieve those better results in the distribution of TACs and quotas, we believe it is essential that this institutional loyalty, institutional loyalty between institutions, and also to go to the hands of the sector. For my part, on this first shift, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u132	Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] You have the floor, on behalf of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pérez Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u133	Good morning, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Counsellor, good morning. You look at the next week's Council of Fisheries Ministers practically on the eve of the next week, where they will surely be dealt with — and so you have just said it is clear — the new reductions in TACs and quotas of 2021. It also appears on the eve of the last turns, indeed, of the Brexit negotiation. From our point of view, it appears, therefore, late, and, by the way, quite squeaky, practically with the names of the plans and applications it intends to put in place and develop those that are already set in motion and little more. Well, late so that the opposition groups in this parliament, for example, can debate over time and make contributions that, if fit, on these two issues — namely Brexit and quotas — will certainly mark the life and course of the Greek fishing sector in the coming years. Counsellor, the data from the fisheries sector, despite more than thirty years of cuts, of Leonine regulations and discrimination on the part of the European Union but also of the State, are still striking. Galicia is the main provider of fishing throughout the state. We have more than 4,400 vessels around 8,000 in all the state. Finally, the sector paid in 2019 more than 550 million euros in wages. Ultimately, fishing means more than 2% of European GDP — exactly 2.1% — and for one in five Greek municipalities fishing means much more than 10% of their GDP. You came here today to make an exhibition that actually re-enacts in the lines that you explained to us the other day in your budget appearance by 2021. And we, Counselor, have just come forward with an amendment to all those budgets that you have introduced to us. And now, after this data I've just given, four data -- because we could give a lot more -- about the Greek fishing sector, we understand even less than last week's dwindling and the absolute devaluation in which the Government of the Union has been maintaining an absolutely strategic sector for our country both in economic and social, as has been said. And I say less and I say devaluation because any study we look at, any data indicates the precisely progressive decrease in the capacity of our fleet and the imposition of the great economic powers, which are the ones that send ultimately and ultimately to the European Union and also to the state, in deregulation, to allow the entry of foreign products virtually without controls, and, on the other hand, to put all kinds of legal obstacles to our people at sea. In fact, the photograph that leaves us the last ten years of government — of its government, because perhaps so — in the Welsh fishing sector is demolishing. Today that very high dependence that Galicia has on fishing remains unrecognizable anywhere at all. And the German Government didn't work for that, but it also agreed to the measures imposed by the European Union and the Spanish State which focused the sector on the lay-off and expulsion of the activity. Since 2009 more than 400 ships have been laid off; for this reason, the FEMP funds — which are now FEMPA — have served mainly here, not to guarantee activity and employment or at least all the activity and employment we want and would be desirable. They're here to carry them out, to execute them. Quotas. The allocation of fishing opportunities for the Member States of the European Union should take account of environmental, economic and social criteria. But, curiously, the socials, which in our country are almost the most heavy ones, hardly ever count. Let us hope — as you have said — that if you are actually giving them weight now, also taking into account the whole problem of cowardice. The real weight of that assignment continues to have the historical criterion, by chance the most detrimental to us and to which it is given more than excessive weight, as it has been maintaining and reiterating the sector in all recent years. Now -- lots, we're talking about quotas -- for the week the cock, the fish, the cock, the abbot... at last, quotas for the 2021 that will assume even less, more ships without quota, more loss of employment... you yourself today in the media have just valued about thirty million euros the impact that would have on the economy in Galicia the cut in quotas proposed for the Cantabrico-Northwest in 2021. But not only those thirty million euros, more than two thousand three hundred crew members with a potential reduction of their wages by more than 4.6 million euros. Finally, this is the starting point and the Government of the main fish producer in the Spanish state acting, from our point of view, little more than a spectator. Brexit. According to you, they have done -- I told you -- I don't know how many studies on their impact on the Greek fisheries sector. Some time ago I read you an interview that you were doing, and the main thing you were putting on the table about Brexit was that they were going to be alert to everything that was going on. Translated, Counselor: They would be waiting for others to move marks and, of course, others to negotiate. And this was exactly what happened. You didn't lie there: more than fifty ships and eight hundred Greek crewmen who make in the Great Sun; one hundred and forty ships of capital of Greek making also but with English, French or Irish flags, to which we would have to add the Malvinas, which we'll see in fact as they are. Have you, Counsellor, at some point, you have the importance, the weight, all that weight — that we have said in data and many more that can be added — of the fishing sector for Galicia? Did you, Counsellor, or your Government, the Government of the Union, set itself up to negotiate directly and defend the interests of the sector? Has it ever been planned in Madrid to say that it cannot happen again at any time with the Welsh fishing which has already happened with the Treaty of Accession of the Spanish State to the European Union? Anyway, if you've limited yourself to just waiting for the steps that others have been taking, you honestly can't reach us, and I don't think the sector either. It was now, just now, when the Brexit is being debated, that is, the final exit of the United Kingdom of the European Union, when we had to effectively battle for the disappearance of the obsolete principle of relative stability and all the disastrous consequences that have come from the beginning to our sea. But, of course, for all this, to debate the principle of relative stability, etc., etc., especially what needs is decision-making capacity. We've been, for many years, saying, the serious problem is that it's not Galicia, it's not us, it's not the Government of the Union who decides about fishing. Finally, to believe in the need, indeed, for decision-making capacity, we must believe in the country and also in the sector, and start by working to have more and more competences. They go there for more than eleven years, Counselor, and indeed their sheet of merits in this sense—not to acquire, in terms of their own competences—is blank; or black, depending as one looks. No powers in ports of general interest, neither in maritime rescue, nor in safety and fight against maritime pollution. And the work cost them and they still put an amendment — we approved the initiative of the other day in the Committee on Fisheries — about the transfer of the IEO; the work cost them. Finally, we understand that it is much easier to simply be attentive — as you said — to blame Madrid or Brussels. And speaking of competences, Counsellor, we go to the only area where we actually have/have competences, although often it does not seem like it: inland water. For the first time an art like the way it is, about which you have direct competence, has had quotas since 2016. As far as the seafood sector is concerned, what are the data today? because you have given very little data today in your intervention. The income of the seamstresses is far below the minimum interprofessional wage. As for the value of its products, the price in length is clearly lower than the final price, leaving precisely the largest turnover in the hands of intermediaries.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u134	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u135	I'm going to finish, Mr. President. The work of the seamstresses implies — you know it perfectly, like me or better — in many serious health problems. Today they're still unresolved — I know it's not just the competence of the Greek Government, so if the PSOE wants to take the message because it would be okay — the adjustment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u136	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u137	I'm going to finish, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u138	No, you have to finish. You've got another shift later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u139	...the retirement age of the seamstresses or the recognition of incapacitating diseases. I'm done on this first shift, Counselor, but I do have more than titles of plans and programs to tell you on my second turn. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u140	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Mrs Egerique Mosquera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u141	Good morning. Thank you, President. And welcome, Counselor. And thanks for the effort he's been working for Galicia yesterday and for the interests of the Galician Sea away -- he's arrived yesterday afternoon and he's here today coming -- for the rigor, for the transparency, for showing the lines of work of the councillor, which is what you're showing here today. I have to take advantage of the time, Counselor, to respond to so many things the spokesmen of the Socialist Party and the Nationalist Block of Wales have said here. Because the truth is, we must remember the reference we have to the Bipartite Government with reference to fishing, because these are the references we have to its Government in Galicia, the Socialist Party and the Galician Nationalist Block. First of all, Mrs. Otero, well, for she was very willing to offer all the support of the Central Government as well. But, of course, the Government also has to do its duties, and as regards today what the Counsellor said, we have the Law on Climate Change, which directly affects the sea sector and processing companies, with 759 amendments and article 18 which is very dangerous for Galicia; collaboration with border inspection points, with the PIFs, of which the Counsellor also spoke; the issue of Brexit and support also for Galicia; the fields of research... we must also be in hand. You offer collaboration to the Galician Union by the Government, but the Government must also do the duties with Galicia. Budgets — which has already been the budget debate — You made an intervention today equal to the budget; all right, you wanted to talk about it -- maybe you didn't care much about the lines of work and that's what you've already pulled forward. We've already had it, and there's an increase -- as you say -- of 12.7% in budgets to fulfill all these lines of work that the sea councillor says. And, as I say, if we look back and see the fisheries policies since 2009, they are positive data and we see applied policies and positive results. It didn't happen the same in the Bipartite—he remembered it later. You have not made the position of the Socialist Party of Galicia, Mrs Otero, on many subjects where, as I say, I reach the PSOE Government in Spain. And in addition, I'm telling you one thing: say it went over the subject of dragons. There are thirty dredgings in progress, there are very clear budgets that we are debating in Commission 3rd, the ports of Galicia has infrastructures in progress as well to improve everything that is the dredgings and the silences, and therefore you know well that we have already discussed it and it is perfectly prepared for the budgets. Like what? The greatest defense of the way that has been done in Galicia and in this parliament has been made by a Member who is Mr Balsairo, when a management plan has been approved here, thanks to a government of the People's Party. And, thanks to that plan, the data since there's a plan doesn't reveal that it's undefeated the way, because you have that theme, but it's not true. Because the average catch since there's a plan is higher than the middle of the previous decade, when there's no catch. And, therefore, you have that fear. Put four data today that you want to put in front of the Sea Council, but that's not true. The biggest job — I insist — was by a government of the People's Party and also by the sector and the workers in the way they know it too. About Coast Guard Service, which is an example in everything, is an example in Europe, is the most efficient, remember how you managed the Coast Guard Service in the Bipartite? Remember there were bills pending payment? Remember that efficiency wasn't the way it is now? Well, they also have to do a review, because that's the reference we have. And today, as well as the jewel that we often say is the Intemar, the Coast Guard Service that we have at the Fisheries Council is an example, and they are much better managed, because not to say that yes, that they were helpless, totally helpless with the Bipartite and that now we take it seriously. Look, with the Bipartite between 2005 and 2009 we lost 538 boats, Mrs Pérez, and between 2009 and 2020 only 533. The proportion in years in number of vessels is quite high. So they also have to see what they did when they managed you, because they come here and look at a number of issues that the truth is to laugh. What contributions did BNG make to Brexit in its pact with the Government of Spain? None. Which fishing lines in Galicia are in the Galician Nationalist Block pact with the support of Pedro Sánchez? Zero. So, of course, they come here and make speeches as if fishing belonged to the Galician Nationalist Block, but, at the time of truth, when they say that the advisor is absent and that she is the ambassador of all autonomous communities to defend our interests, you come here accusing her I don't know that, when she really is the one involved in fishing with Galicia. Actually, it seems like a lie that you don't remember or want to forget that Bipartite, which we don't forget, because today we have another multiparty in Madrid which is also hurting us a lot of Galicia, which is very far away from Galicia. And besides, when they were ruling the Bipartite and Zapatero, it turns out that he was representing us in Galicia a person from Extremadura, I think he was from Extremadura, who knew a lot of fishing and defended a lot of Galician fishing interests. So we're going to defend our sector. The advisor put on the table a series of plans that are really bearing fruit, that in 2019 we achieve the greatest value in fresh fishing, that we break barriers for the people of the sea to live better, that we have to keep working on that line to do what is reformulation and all that is people's renewal, that there are more people who are engaged in fishing, training, FP; that is, they are lines of work in which they are working and that work. Look, what do we also remember about the very curious Bipartite, when you say we're here betting on the species outside? The panga in the school dining rooms. That was a huge achievement when I ruled the Galician Nationalist Block in Galicia. And we are -- I have to say -- quite tired of hearing of saying that the People's Party is the enemy of fishing in Galicia and the Galician Nationalist Block, by the hands of the Socialist Party, are friends. And that's not true, because it's been disastrous for a few years for our fishing sector in Galicia. The model of TACs and quotas, because we have the debate on the table. I really appreciate the transparency, rigor, reality and the truths on the table, when we're always listening to how many other governments and administrations would like to hear. She came here with great humility to ask the political groups for help so that Galicia does not forget itself in Europe. And when Galicia defended a model change in fisheries management within the unanimous dictatorship of the Galician Fisheries Council, the Galician Nationalist Block and the Socialist Party voted against. So, of course, the quota system now is the very evil of the film, but really Europe is for everything. We cannot now take what we like or what we don't like from the European Union. We are also talking about very positive issues, European funds in the field of LAGs and better access to many aids that can be very favourable to the fisheries sector. In the quota system at that time — I insist — the Galician Nationalist Block and the PSOE did not support that model change. Therefore, we must now consider what interests us in a country that is eminently exporting products from the sea. It should be remembered that Galicia exported more than EUR 2,100 million into products from the sea in 2018, and this concept makes the sector clear and makes it clear to the advisor, and these are the lines of work we are working on in the future — I insist — are in addition to the socio-economic criteria and the sustainability of our fishing to which it wins. May the Government help us with reports to bring and defend in Brussels that our way of fishing and our way of living fishing is a sustainable way. How are we going to present ourselves with these socio-economic criteria, with a Climate Change Act that in article 18 what it does is to eliminate a pen, a pen, all the companies in the mar-industry chain? What will Brussels think? That the central government is directly attacking the way to work in Galicia. So that's also important to keep this in mind and work from here. We must remember something else when we negotiate, and it is the failure to exhaust the quotas attributed to Spain. Because it is true that in Galicia I assumed that in 2019 we stopped consuming in Cantabrico-Noroeste. So you also have to know what sharing is like and how to manage all those quotas and put a lot of effort also in solidarity, in sharing quotas with other autonomous communities. So I'm going to finish with a data that I think I've already said in my intervention: is that Galicia broke in 2017 a roof of 500 million euros in first sale of fresh fish and seafood and has reached the best billing figure since there's data. This means that the larger that figure is and the more you recognise it out there, the better the people of the sea will live, the more attractive it will have for young people and there will be that generational relief than we speak; besides, also with the improvement of the inhabitability of ships, with a joint work in which we can defend our way and our way of fishing. So, I think the lines that I put out the advisor, and then in the questions that you asked him, are lines that are completely settled in reality, which are accompanied by, of course, by some budgets, which are based on that reality, in the year covered-19, and with Plan Avantemar, which is 77 million on the table for the fisheries sector. And of course, nobody talks about it. You come here to put in front of the People's Party all the negativity that can be in the fishing sector, and really the data don't evaluate what you say. And the Bipartite, the management of fishing in the Bipartite -- it would only have to make an appearance of that -- was disastrous. We therefore want to congratulate and encourage the Fisheries Adviser to follow this line.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u142	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u143	We know that negotiations in Brussels are complicated, but we have all our support, and we know that those who put these sludges in, that is, those fisheries policies are being very positive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u144	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the replica shift, you have the word of the Sea advisor, Mrs. Quintana Carballo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u145	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have seen here, as Mrs Egerique said, to seek support from all society, from all political groups, in the defence of a sector that I believe — and we understand from the Government and the Government-supporting group — which is essential for Galicia. And the truth is, I'm accused of having made just a list of certain aspects in my first part of the exhibition and that I left many subjects without touching. The truth is, I could be talking here hours and hours in the fishing sector, because there are many issues that have to do with this sector. I understood that, after the last week's appearance in budgets, some had already been explained and therefore it wasn't worth touching again, but I see that it wasn't clear to the honourable ladies, Mrs Otero and Mrs Pérez, some of the cases they presented in the budget appearances, and so I'm going to have to play them again. They talked about I have to rule for the whole sector. That's what I've done since I arrived on 20 April 2009, at the Sea Council. I worked for each and every one of the different subsectors that make up the sea-industry chain. One of the things I feel proud of, after all these years in the Government, is that the work of the Galician Fisheries Council, where I am represented absolutely all the subsectors of the sea-industry chain; I am proud of the last formation that has been made of a confederation that represents absolutely the entire sector of the sea-industry chain; I am proud that the Council of Galicia, through the Sea Council, is also part of the patronage of the FREMSS Foundation, a foundation that emerges from the sector itself and from which we are also part of the Council of the Sea. And those are the working keys, ladies and gentlemen. We all need to be part of the same common project that is the defence of the Galician sea, and that's where I'm working, and with some data that I'm going to give them, I think it must be made manifest. I was told that I spoke, almost without quoting, about the healing of the rivers. Laundering was something I've already reminded them of during the budget appearance and what I'm going to put the data back on the table. When we arrived at the Government in 2009, there were 15.3% of C areas listed in Galicia; by 2020, the C areas in Galicia were 8%. The areas A in Galicia in 2000 were 4.1 per cent; in 2020, 15.9%. They've improved 112 polygons, 936 bats. In 2009, there were 26 production areas, now we have 46. As for seafood banks, in the infamous, they have improved 22 areas, 138 benefited banks. In 2009, there were 72 areas and now there are 86. I think this is what we've been doing since 2009 and what we've been doing, because, as you can imagine, the stream-cleaning work is a complex work and what we haven't been resting on since we got to the government. Of course, I'm accused to Mrs. Pérez that I'm acting as a spectator. I'm not acting as a spectator, Mrs Pérez. And you here today have given some data that you have thanks to the work that has been done since the Galician Union, from the Council of the Sea, to believe the social and economic impact of the proposal made to us by the European Commission. Did you tell me if anyone else gave you any data? Who did that job? He's gone from Galician Union, he's from the Sea Council. And the data is public. When I was accused of being a spectator on the issue of Brexit, look, from the minute one signed the referendum where the United Kingdom decided that it was going to leave the European Union, at the same time we sent the first report, it was commissioned by the Council of Galicia. From that van five reports, which are all at the disposal of society; all, in institutional loyalty, delivered to the Central Government, all delivered to Commissioner Barnier, who is in charge of negotiations. Since then we have been able to boost a platform for defence of the Community fisheries sector to keep the whole fisheries sector of all regions of the European Union united in the defence of the common interests of all European Union fishermen with regard to Brexit negotiations. Two statements were signed on that platform. The first to sign those two statements was President of the Board, President Núñez Feijóo. We are now talking about FEMPA, the new European Maritime Fund for Fisheries. The autonomous community which made the statement on what should contain the new European Maritime Fund for Fisheries and Aquaculture was the Galician Union. We have defended this statement by the chairman of the Galician Council in the Committee of the Regions, and we have achieved unanimous approval of the Galician proposal of what the new European Maritime Fisheries Fund should contain. And now the statements of a well-known Member of Parliament, Mr. Francisco Millán Mon, made reference to the fact that this new fund has since then had a Greek accent, because it collects the vast majority of the issues raised by the President of the Galician Council himself. And that's the value that the Galician Union gives to this fishing sector when the president himself is what defends the interests of this sector in the European Union. We are not spectators, we work, we work with data, we work with arguments and we carry that data, with all institutional loyalty, the government of the state and also with community institutions. [[Applause]] And we work on this line. And when you see the results of FEMPA, you will see that most of the positive things that this fund collects come from the Community Parliament itself. That is, others will see what they have done, but Members of the European Parliament have worked in defence of the interests of this sector. They also accuse me that I didn't talk like this, that the way it shouldn't be a minor art. Look, I could be talking here maybe two hours. I remind you that there's been a proposal from someone -- who I'm not going to say who -- to suppress drifting arts, without realizing that they were taking art the way, which is a drifting art. It had to be the Council of the Sea that made four reports to defend that the way was a sustainablely defended art that was regulated in Galicia since 1991, which is an art that is practised selectively and that is an art with which one can continue to work. Now of course, I don't know if you know very well what the competitions are and what they cease to be the competitions, and to what kind each fishing art is directed to. The way it leads to sardine fishing. It's true that we've been with a sardine crisis for a few years, a sardine crisis that is a cyclical fact. I remind you that the Spanish Oceanography Institute in Vigo opened a hundred years ago, and opened as a result of the sardine crisis at that time. Well, sardine is not a static species that is unique and exclusively within the Arousa River. The sardine is a migratory species, and therefore, while the sardine is in a crisis, all the arts dedicated to this fishery have been affected by the reduction in the fishing of the sardine. But look, I'm going to give you data, and since I don't want to talk about memory, I brought you here to remind you of what we did the way we did. We made a plan for the recovery of the sardine, to prevent it from entering the TAC system and quotas, as are the rest of the species. And since we made that plan, in agreement with the sector, we have to have the discharges increased, since there's been a plan of the way, by 12% with respect to when there was no plan. The billing of the way has increased by 25% since the plan and the average price of the sardine captured by the way, since the plan, it's increased by 16.6%. So don't accuse me of abandoning the way, accuse me of anything else, but not of defending any of the arts in which we have competence. We defend them here, we defend them in Madrid and we defend them in Brussels, and we work with arguments. [[Applause]] Maybe you won't be informed by some of the things that happened in the previous legislation, because you didn't take the fishing topics, but the subject doesn't defend yourself by taking an art in a suitcase in a manner in Brussels. No, no. In Brussels things are defended with data and arguments, as we are working, as we did last year, when we were the ones, with the reports that were made in Galicia, giving them to the Central Government, to change the proposal for the European Commission's initiative on fishing opportunities for 2020. And so we do it again with these fishing possibilities. Having known on 1 December the proposals of the European Commission, we have already made a report, which was given yesterday to the Minister, to use the data and so that he can be able to defend the arguments we are defending from Galicia. Look, I'm very proud, because when I arrived at the Government in 2009, I had to be working on the proposal that should contain the new common fisheries policy. From work done by the Bipartite there were two leaves, two leaves. We present a dictation which was approved unanimously at the Galician Fisheries Council. It was a titanic effort, because there the whole sector understood that everyone had to lose a spark to win the Marine Galicia, and we were able to get a consensus and unanimously approved document. And it was the first time in the European Union, in the common fisheries policy, that we began to talk about the three aspects that are necessary to maintain fishing: the environmental, social and economic aspects. Now, no one doubts that these are the three aspects that need to be taken into account in order to carry out the common fisheries policy. Until then, he hadn't thought of himself in the European Union. And do you know how they supported the Welsh fishing sector at that time? The Block voted against the adoption of this proposal, when it was unanimously adopted by the Galician Fisheries Council, and the PSOE abstained. Even so, all the proposals put forward by the Socialist Party were collected and all the proposals, except one, proposed by the Block, were collected; the only proposal that was not accepted by the Block at that time was the one that referred to aquaculture; we'll see how this topic ends. But you told him not at that moment in Galicia and they keep telling him not today, and they told him not when the two-party government was decided. Because, Mrs. Pérez, you came here accusing me of being a spectator, but I was very proud when the president of the board, of the first councils he appointed, was the Councillory of the Sea. In the two-party government I remind you that the last councillor who had the assignment was the Fisheries Council. The Block didn't ask for the Fisheries Council, it didn't ask for it. I don't know why, if so much they want to defend this sector, when they had the opportunity to get their ideas and policy forward for this sector, they could have asked for advice, but not; the Fisheries Council was the last named in their department. I'm told now that I'm reducing the budget share in formation and that I'm not betting on the generational relief. I've also defended him at the showhouse in the budget. At the start of training only the current costs are reduced, because, in the 2021 budget, the only spending that decreases in the Council of the Sea is the current expenditure; the spending for the rest of the training topics remains unalterable. And you see, generational relief is not due to the lack of students in our schools, which in recent years has increased by 46%. Over the past few years, they've been leaving our schools for more than 1,570 degrees to exercise command in ships. The problem is -- and I've already said it, by active, passive and peripheral -- that it's difficult for young people to work on fishing boats that don't meet the living and security conditions that are necessary for our people to keep seeing this activity attractive. With his arguments, with his little emphasis on all that has to do with fishing, of course, that doesn't make this activity attractive to our youth. If we don't talk positively about this activity, if we don't feel proud of the work that our people at sea do, we'll hardly be able to convince our youth that they bet on working by the sea. And you accuse me, both Mrs Otero and Mrs Pérez, that the only thing we did for this sector was to scrape the fleet. Well, I don't really want to talk about the two-party government, but you're leading me to that subject, because look, in four few years they've been in the government, they've spent 538 boats in four years. They had planned for the period from 2008 to 2010 to fire 93 more, which would be added to these 538. We, in 2008-2010, broke 37 ships. Since we've been in the government, fewer ships have been laid off than for the three years and I think you've been in the government. That's the balance. They say I don't give numbers, but it's just that the numbers I give from now on are to give them a little bit of evidence. They're telling me about the income of the seamstresses. Look, it's just that I didn't want to remember how the seamstresses were when I arrived in the Government in 2009, not only with that number of areas C there was, with that few number of areas A there, with low production in the seafood banks. At times where in theory and economy it was in the highest values, the mariners lost every year, and jobs were lost. And now, look at you, I'm going to give you the data, because, actually, the average income of 2017 was the highest in the historical series, 46% above the average. The average income has grown by 40% since 2009, and the average income during the government of President Feijóo, knowing that we spent some critical years from the economic point of view, where the prices of all the products fell, yet, was 13% higher than the average income of the marishers during the two-party government. Mrs. Otero, I was already talking about Coast Guard Service, which has more functions and has less staff. Well, the two concepts that you say are wrong. Look, he doesn't have the Coast Guard Service any more functions, because he has exactly the same functions as when he was created in the 1980s -- and I can certainly say it because I approved the Fisheries Inspector's oppositions in 1987 and since that job in this office -- the powers that the Service has are the same. And in recent years, we have increased the staff of the Coast Guard Service in forty jobs. Ten boats have been renewed. And I'm not going to say what happened to the Coast Guard Service while ruling the Bipartite, there are witnesses here that can... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, it's just that I've come with a very clear exhibition of seeking institutional loyalty and there's someone who draws data that I think they need correction, because of course I'm not going to be accused of lying, and everything I say is because I have data that they believe it. [[Applause]] The Coast Guard Service during the two-party government came to cut to light. We are devoting more than 22 million euros to Galician Coast Guard Service, we have all the boats running, we have increased seizures and increased commissioning, because we understand that theft is a tear. There was someone who said theft was insolidious. That data is there, it's part of the history of the marine Galicia, and each one will have to defend what he's done. I'm defending with great honor what I've done, and I don't mean I'm satisfied with everything I've done, because we have a lot of work left to do. But, of course, what I still have is forces to do a little more every day for my sector, and that's what I'm doing day by day, not acting as a spectator, but acting with data, arguments and jobs. [[Applause]] Reducing coefficient for seamstresses. Mrs. Pérez, we've been talking about this subject for four, five, six years; I don't know what they told you. The position of the People's Party Government has always been the same. It is necessary to review the reduction coefficients of the entire sector that has to do with the world of the sea. We understand that it's an antiquated legislation, that there are people who are collecting reducing coefficients when we understand that they don't need to be covered, and that there are other groups who need it, who need it, and who need to sit down at once. And so we did. Like we did with the bottles. It was not the competence of the Galician Council, and yet, as we were told that it could not be changed because there was a Community directive that prevented the reform of the shops, without doubt, we went to Brussels, we had an interview with the Director General of Employment, we took the arguments, we brought him a report drawn up by the Issga, for 061, working together with the sector, with the Technical Unit of Bassure, we convinced the European Union of the need to change that directive, that directive has changed. Ah! I'm sorry, I also had the unanimous agreement from the entire Galician Fisheries Council, including the three union representatives. We have managed to change that Community directive. And now we've been waiting for the Spanish State to transpose that Community directive and we can finally implement the new botikini regulation, which is very necessary, of course, for our fleet. Relative stability. What am I going to tell them, if, when I talk about relative stability, they tell me that I always try to blame each other? I don't blame anyone, I think we all have our history here, certainly didn't rule the People's Party in Spain when we decided on Spain's entry into the European Union and what conditions we entered. And we, ever since, all the governments of the People's Party have resorted to evil called the principle of relative stability. If we lose it, the question of the Community institutions, but one, when it is in Europe, has to be for the good and the bad, and Galicia should not leave Europe, because we have received a lot of money from Europe to change policies that were very necessary for the development of our sector and are still being. But, of course, Europe must go with work, with arguments and with data, which is how we often go, not as spectators. We never did. I didn't like to be a spectator. And as for the execution, I'd budget, because I'd already told them the other day and they'd take me back to tell you. Running the European Maritime Fisheries Fund is a complicated, complex issue, and we therefore call for the new FEMPA to allow greater flexibility to implement the budget. Is it hard to execute him? Yes. Do you sometimes discourage the sector itself from presenting projects for the amount of documents you have to provide? Yes. What do we have to do? In the two-party government, 69% of the funds available to the council were made available to the sector. We made 92.6% of the funds available to the sector available only in 2020. It's true that European funds are not lost; I've explained it this other day; what is not run this year goes to the next year, because sometimes when the projects are solved it doesn't give the sector time to run them, or they can't get certain licenses that they need from the municipalities, authorizations, concessions, boat reform projects... and we're doing it multi-annually so they can have enough time to run it. Of course, I don't know what else to tell you, but I summarize my appearance in two words: institutional loyalty. Of course, I've always defended her, I've never looked for the confrontation with any opposition group. All the documents that are approved at the Galician Fisheries Council are brought to Parliament, all the reports that have been made to defend Brexit's situation are there, all the data that you have at your disposal have one source, and that source is called the Sea Council. This is our line of work, and in this line we'll continue to bet on defending all the links of the sea-industrial chain, and I really wish we'd stop making politics with fishing and start doing a little fishing policy. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u146	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We have opened up the possibility of a special round of clarifications, with the help of the Government, and, first of all, you have the floor, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Otero Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u147	Thank you, President. Madam Counsellor, in order not to talk about the year 2009, the two-party government, you've devoted more than half of your intervention to talking about it. Just one point: he failed to say those 48 million less than they're missing on the road, which was lost from 2009 to 2021. [[Applause]] Loyalty. I believe that, in my first intervention, the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, because, Mrs. Egerique, I cannot compromise the Central Government here, because I am not able to speak on behalf of the Central Government, which I am not delegated to the Government. What I have committed to you is the support of the Socialist Parliamentary Group for those decisions that improve the sector. Of course, we can't give a blank check and we can't criticize those data or those advisory actions that we think are not the right ones for the sector. A point, Mrs Pérez, because he was speaking and addressing the Socialist Party. Go ahead, we think there's work left to be done on the subject of casualties, on temporary disability due to professional continuances for red tape and marshes, but only on time. In 2009, new occupational diseases of the reefs and marshes were recognized in relation to diseases and recurrent diseases: epicondyllitis, infectious and parasitic diseases caused by working in wet areas, but go ahead and work on it. The truth is, of course, that Mrs. Egerique came with the speech prepared, she came directly to attack the Socialist Parliamentary Group, when I believe that in my speech the words that I most used were loyalty and hand held at the Sea Council itself, because it is true that in many lines we shared that position that the Counsellor had made today, and what we found is that failure of budgetary execution. I think you were talking about me compromising the central government here. I think you were wrong today in your intervention, because you spoke on behalf of the Galician Union, when you are the sea councillor here. I said that the counselor had not spoken a single moment about the theme of the rye sanitation, and came to me to corroborate in his second turn, which was when he spoke of the rye sanitation. And I was left with a phrase that said, "With these rhyme healing data I just gave, it's all said." So I ask you, with that data that you seem today that you are so proud to give about the issue of river sanitation: how do you explain the loss of permex since you came to Galicia? Because you, as much as you say no, committed to duplicates and what you did was put them down in half. So you have to explain why, with those rries healing data you give, if you keep losing the permex. Mrs. Egerique used to say that we have the Socialist Parliamentary Group in the art of the way. No, it's not the theme of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, it's the theme of the sector. And then the advisor came to drop like the socialists tried to end the way. I'm just telling you that in 2014 and 2015, when Europe wanted to eliminate this art, Members and Socialists in different administrations we defended this art. You said you could be talking like that for a long time, but you didn't, besides, you don't have limited time, like the opposition groups, that we had to put this subject on the table. You were talking about the generational relief. It is not only a question of training, but we agree, but one of the measures to ensure this generational relief, you are lowering your budgetary share of training. It's just that he accused us of not making fishing attractive for our Thursdays. It is you who has exclusive competence to promote measures and policies to make fishing more attractive to our sector. We don't give a negative view of fishing, which we do on many occasions to bring to this chamber the voice of some part of the sector that seems that since the council office you don't want to hear. That's what we do from the Socialist Parliamentary Group itself. You used to talk again about the Coast Guard theme, also comparing it with the bipartisan government. Look, talk to the service, because, on the bases where there should be four or five people per crew, where there are three. So something's failing. I repeat: loyalty, support from the Socialist Parliamentary Group in all measures to benefit the sector, everything, but we will certainly not be able to keep our mouth shut in those things that we see going against the sector. And we also hope, along with the Minister of Fisheries, that next week we can improve these fishing opportunities. It's a joint work of everyone, of the administrations and also of the sector itself, and of course we hope that these fishing opportunities will be improved because we all play a lot. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Pérez Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u149	Thank you, President. Counsellor, the representative of the People's Party, I can't spend time with you, but you said here at a time of your intervention that seems to be BNG fishing. Well, as Mrs. Counsellor put herself in her second intervention, it seems that fishing is from Mrs. Fisheries Advisor, and that's not true, nor is it from the People's Party. What happens, Counselor, is that you can't come to Parliament late, as I told you at first, and wait to hear only what you want to hear. No, no, this is where you have to listen to what one or one doesn't like to hear, right? That is why we are debating, and that is why we are debating. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u150	You can remove the mask if you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u151	Thank you, Mr. President. And you said that, indeed, our speech — well, you said that the speech of the opposition — is not to speak positively, not to be proud of the people of the sea, and that we are contributing to the fact that new people do not opt for this work, for coming to the sea sector. Madam Counsellor, I told you the other day at the budget meeting, we are very proud, we are very, very, very proud in the area of the Greek Sea. What we're not so proud of is the policy that's been going on since eleven years ago by the People's Party with the area of the Greek Sea, because someone also said it: those pos come in these muds. By the way, thank you very much for clarifying me -- I didn't know, just like, of course, how I wasn't here either, I don't know so much, right? -- how was the division of advisors in the Bipartite; I thank you very much; now I'll take it into account in the next. [[Applause]] You said you were actually not in the State Government when the Spanish State entry treaty was negotiated in the European Union. True, it is true, but if they were in the Government of the State not at that initial moment, but at the time when Mr. Arias Cañete, Minister of Fisheries for several years in the Government of the State, of the People's Party, carried out the most overwhelming policy for the Greek Sea sector, from our point of view, Counsellor. You want institutional loyalty, you talk honesty and you talk humility. Look, institutional loyalty is demonstrated, for example, by admitting opposition groups even if they are observers within the Galician Fisheries Council, so that we can also observe others, I say no more opinion, but actually take into account all that is done there. I don't have time, Counselor, but look, two or three questions. General relief. They're so worried about the headlines of the generational relief, not because they're making a policy in favour of the generational relief, that you dedicate to it in the budgets of 2021 the same match you were given last year, 100,000 euros less than in 2019: 300,000 euros. If that's what we're going to do with a policy of generational relief from the sea sector in Galicia, we'll be late! You're talking about flushing. By the way, Mrs. Egerique, I told you the other day: it was in Mr. Sánchez's investment pact that they signed with the BNG, it contained the healing of the rivers. If you don't think it's a primary reason for increasing the productivity of our laughs, well, I mean, it's an opinion. Sanitation of the rivers. Counselor, I would really like to have been you today, or tomorrow, or when I have time, but as soon as possible, Ferrol. I would very much like him to go to Ferrol and talk to the confrereries of Barallobre, Ferrol and Mugardos, about the situation they are suffering, about their limited situation. I'm not going to extend, because then there's a specific question on that subject. But we're not just going to talk about Ferrol. I would also like, at this point, after twenty-five years of working all of us and all of us in favour of the dredging and regeneration of the Burgo River, which went to the Coruña, also when I had time — or telematics — and to tell the seamen and sailors of the Burgo River that Junta is not willing to put more than 100,000 euros to pay the economic compensation for the seamen and seafooders of the Burgo River. And not only that, he wants to put only 100,000 euros, but he also demands that the coastal municipalities bring exactly the same amount as the Galician Union, that the Sea Councillory, having absolutely no competition on the subject. Counsellor, if that is to support the sector, we really don't understand it that way. But besides — and I am finished, Mr President — we do not understand how at one moment as we are, where we are speaking absolutely throughout the world of Mr Feijóo's famous tractor projects, the Councillory of the Sea is the only one, or practically the only, who hasn't yet opened his mouth to today about claiming European extraordinary funds, of that mana that you say is coming from Europe, you don't know when or how, but you say he will come. It's the only councillor who hasn't yet opened his mouth to say: we, the productive sector of Welsh fishing, that is, strategic for the country, also have projects to present in Europe and we're also going to introduce them. You, the Galician Union, what you're dealing with, what you're dealing with with with with with extraordinary funds, are representing certain companies that don't even most of them pay taxes in our country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u152	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u153	So look, Counselor, in this country there is a huge company, a huge company: it's the Greek fishing sector. We, the Galician Nationalist Block, are proud of her. That's why our pride leads us not to be ashamed at all, not to practice self-hatred...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u154	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u155	...and take them to Brussels in the same way. We already know that's not the only way to get the way you don't have quotas, but, look, it's a way to get proud and take the sector where you have to take it, Counselor. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u156	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez Fernández. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u157	Thank you, President. Mrs. Pérez, I don't know what happened to you, that you were very upset, you came here very angry. It doesn't offend me that you don't answer me and ignore me, it doesn't offend me at all. I'll always tell you the truths and the realities here. If there's a person who's been working around the fishing industry in Galicia since 2009, it's Mrs. Quintana. What you don't like is that we remind you that the BNG, when it could and had the opportunity to rule in Galicia, has abandoned fishing, has abandoned the sea sector; they don't like it. [[Applause]] And they don't like that we're in 2020 and that Galician fishing has a good position, that improves the data, that's betting on the generational relief, that's betting on so many plans and so many plans that Mrs Quintana presented here. Because you have a very small view of fishing, but you have to open your sight a little bit, and that's what you came here to defend Mrs. Quintana. Look, what I'm saying: fishing, the sea, the marshmallows, the laughs, the ports... they despised everything and really afterwards the Greeks spoke again. And we also have coordination with the Government, Mrs Otero. This parliamentary group again spoke to Mrs. Quintana; we have coordination, we support the Government because we have an absolute majority, because the Greeks give us their trust. And we have coordination. It's no wonder to me that you deny Mr. Sánchez and the Government of Spain, that you come here to disengage yourself from the PSOE Government, as if you hadn't been with me, nothing misses me! because, of course, after the constant contempt of Galicia in the accounts, the contempts that make Galicia legislating... you really stay far away from Sánchez and Pablo Iglesias Galicia. And you, the representatives of the Socialist Party, should go over there and tell them what this reality is, how we are working here, how we are fishing, and who are defending us, because it seems that we are defending ourselves, nothing in fishing or in port matters — as I say — which also reaches this council. Mrs. Pérez, you don't have enough sanitation in the pact. He has had very little light on the budgets and has had very little on those sanitation points, which, I say, are environmentally fundamental. Mrs Quintana pointed out here the evolution since 2009 from areas C to areas A. Please! it's just that these are facts and data too. You tell me some data, something, something that justifies Mr. Cañete's doing the most predatory policy for Galicia, because to say it looks good, but it's not true, it's not true. Because, for example, when we talk about European Commissioners like Joaquín Almunia, for example, with the naval, with the tax read, yes, done, approved it in Europe. What did Mr. Cañete do against Galicia? It's just that, really, I don't know, you have to tell me, because sometimes expressions and phrases are released here very well, it's a completely legitimate political debate, but they have no data to say that they were aggressive to Galicia, because it's not true. And — I insist — here, of the parliamentary groups represented in the Galician Parliament, a faded, faded, and also defended much of fishing and no longer exists. I don't know if we all go hand in hand to go to Brussels really or ahead of the governments. Because Mrs. Quintana, both with Cañete and with Planes — and it is true — is absolutely loyal. She's the biggest known fisher because she's been managing fisheries policy for many years. And besides, the reports with which the Galician board works are from official agencies, they're from universities, from 061, she doesn't do them at home at night. That many say: you have to go talk to the confrereries, you have to go talk to you... Mrs. Quintana moves all over Galicia and knows this territory perfectly. I'd rather say that you already have it in your head, because -- I insist -- I think that's what bothers you. I saw you really angry with the counselor for what he said, came to justify his accusations. As I say, the Parliamentary Group supports this government, we are going on the same line. In Commission 8 we try to support and make proposals, not with difficulty or timidly; when we support, we support, and when we refuse, we refuse, because we do not do so many sera. When we have to refuse something that is sometimes complicated, we do, too, because we know it can't be fulfilled. Here we're used to left-wing governments, which is everything — as I say — a defense of package, a loyalty of package. So, here, Mrs Quintana, I have also been a little upset about the answers from the honourable Members, because, in fact, they do not recognize the minimum work, which, in addition, it is now in Brussels to defend on the environmental issue, on the subject of fishing, how difficult it is to show those reports and really justify that sustainable economic fishing is socially very important for Galicia. It seems a lie that they don't even recognize that this is important and that, in addition, the counselor will surely leave the skin there, as he always does. I had data here -- I insist -- with the proportion of bipartite scrapping. Today we wouldn't have a fleet. If we were to increase these four years to three legislates that we now have, there would be no fleet, it would be completely torn apart. So, as Mrs. Counsellor said, you do a lot of politics with fishing, but, in fact, nothing at all. Here is data on the table, there are solutions, there is planning for the future, there are plans to develop with important topics now, and, above all -- as we say -- every time we have more value in our product, so that the quality of life of people living on the sea is greater and that coastal villages have more strength and have made population in them. That's the work the advisor is doing, and, above all, representing all Spain in Brussels. As I say, we can't have a better ambassador — and less bad than we do — and not an adviceer of Extremes, which I imagine would sound because — I don't know — either river crabs or something like that. Thank you, Mrs. Quintana. I insist that, as a member of the People's Parliamentary Group, the Government of Spain should also be entrusted with its duties. That environmental legislation is very harmful. And Brexit has to keep track of the reports they also left Galicia. Collaboration with PIF is crucial in the future, if there's going to be an agreement with Brexit. And the fields of research are priority, and they can't crawl with them as well as this, without anything noticing and covering it up. Thank you very much, Mrs. Quintana, for your work.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u158	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Close of appearance, sea councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u159	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. The truth is, I don't know how I have to address all of you. I'm a person who, of course, accepts criticism but whenever these criticisms are constructive. So, of course, I don't think we're contributing anything to society or the fishing industry, it's putting ourselves in the face of things that aren't supported because there's no data behind them. I'm accused of being late. Home!, I have registered the request for appearance on September 7, I think they should take possession on day 5 or day 6. But I understand that Parliament has its full office, has its appearances, we are eleven advisers, we are living in a pandemic, and opposition groups were eager to come up with data from the pandemic. I agree with what is established from Parliament. But I will never stop coming to Parliament, because I believe deeply in this institution. So when I come here, I'm trying to bring as much data as possible and as much information as possible. Mrs. Pérez, either you misread me or I didn't say it was no reason to be proud to defend art in the way. I'm the only one who criticizes you is that you can't go to Brussels to carry a net in a suitcase and think that that's why you fixed the problem the way, because that's how you sold it, and that's not how you sold it. Brussels certainly has to explain to you what our sector is like, and you have to take arguments about what our sector is like. And we have to invite the people of Brussels to come here and meet us, and we do that. And I brought the head of the European Maritime Fisheries Fund to come here and see what our ships were like and see how inhabitable our ships are. And he climbs on board a ship where he could see that six people shared a cabin that had to be working on the Great Sun for fifteen days. And those are the ways in which we have to convince the European Union that it is necessary to improve the inhabitability of ships so that we can be an attractive activity for youth, and that must be argued. And for that we feel proud, yes, but it's not worth saying: I'm proud; I'm proud to take back the data they believe I'm proud of. And what you can't say is -- as it happened last year -- that fishing quotas were bad and that they had a huge impact on Spain without having a data report. We have to say that the European Commission's proposal is bad, but we have to argue with it; and we have to say: gentlemen, with this downside proposal that you make us only in the Cantabrian-North-West Spain can lose 29 million and a half euros directly. Which, if we multiply it by 3.8, which means indirect work, is 60 million euros, which I think Spain is not willing to give up on them. And besides, we have to say that only in Galicia affects 2,300 sailors, data that you exposed in your intervention. And you've exposed that data because you know it from the work of the advisor's technicians, who looked for that data, and we've argued about it to take our minister yesterday so he can use it and give it to the European Commission. And today morning we've also sent them to DG MARE's director general in Brussels so that he can have these data and use them in the defense of Spanish fishing arguments. I can't tell you how the distribution of fishing opportunities in the Great Sun will come out, because we haven't known them yet today, because it's waiting for the United Kingdom to decide if it comes out, if it doesn't come out, how it comes out and what conditions it's in. So we have many hard working days left in Brussels to see the proposal that we make and how we argue the counter-proposal, which is what we are talking about. Mrs. Otero tells me that I hear only part of the sector. Mrs. Otero, are you listening only to a part of the sector? Are you listening only to someone in the sector? Because, of course, I'm not the one who decides who the representatives of the sector are, I don't choose them, I choose them the sector. As society elects who governs it by voting in polls and decides that it is the People's Party who governs it. For in the sector it is also the partners of the different organizations who decide who the representatives are in front of the institutions in that sector. And I hear the whole sector, of course, not only when they come to the full of the Galician Fisheries Council, but I'm going to have a lot of shortcomings, but, of course, my phone number may be few fishermen who don't have it; heeding all the calls they make to me and I am answering all the messages they send me on Facebook and all the social networks. I mean, I'm trying to be in direct contact with the sector and solve the sector and each of the problems it's having and for which I can have a solution. And for those who have no solution, I also openly tell the sector, and I commit myself to work to keep defending it. Sure, the way. Today it's become fashionable, which we haven't talked about in days. Well, what do you want me to tell them? I come here in an institutional way, but if they attack me, I have to defend myself. It's just, if you attack me on the subject of the way, I have to tell you that it was a PSOE proposal to suppress drifting arts and that then you had to change that proposal because they realized that the way it is a drifting art, and we had to argue it. Yes, Mrs. Otero, don't turn your head, that's it, and that's argued and documented. And it was the work of the Galician Union that allowed you to modify the way disposition in the European Union, and you can look for all the information you consider appropriate. Look, I don't like being told here that Mr. Arias Cañete was the ravages of fishing, because then I have to say what happened, and they're going to tell me I'm coming to talk about the Bipartite, and I don't want to talk about the Bipartite, but it's that, hey!, in three years and peak that they ruled they lost 44% of fishing opportunities, and Mr. Arias Cañete didn't rule. Since the arrival of Mr. Arias Cañete to the Government, the fishing opportunities have improved by 75%, and Galicia has benefited from all the distribution criteria for the entire fleet of minor arts. That's the data. [[Applause]] It's because we had to get to the Government in 2012 and change the distribution criteria to give more weight to socio-economic aspects. I'm not talking about prehistory, I'm talking about 2012. How can you get me here, quietly and say: Mr. Arias Cañete was the biggest wreck of fishing? Listen, I'm not saying that Mr. Zapatero was the most devastating; now, if you tell me, I tell them: okay, because Mr. Zapatero has lost Galicia and Spain 44% of fishing opportunities in just three years. As Mrs. Egerique said, at the moment, we would have neither boats nor fishing, nor seafarers, nor seafarers. And last of all, Mrs. Pérez, I have to tell you that I could understand many positions of the Galician Nationalist Block, but since then the Burgo River has not been able to understand it. Look, when we arrived at the Government in 2009, Burgo's hive was classified as C area. 100 million euros were invested in the sanitation of the Burgo River, 100 million euros that invested the Galician Union; the microbiological classification of that area changed; and it was only pending in the Burgo River to make the Burgo River dredging, which corresponds to the Central Government. And I say, who does the work, who is the promoter of the work must be what compensates those affected by the work he does. If, therefore, the State is what this work is going to do, it is logical to think that it should be the State which compensates the mariners for the period of affect they have. And what I'm saying — and my words are there and I won't deny them — is that the dredging project in the period of public allegations has increased by more than 2 million euros of budget, and those over 2 million euros of budget have been to make improvements on a green path, on a matter of a maritime walk of a municipality, in which I don't know how many more things have been asked for by the neighbouring municipalities with the Burgo's laugh. And I say: why were the allegations taken into account to the council and the allegations made by the confrerery partners, that they said, "Hey, gentlemen, while they're doing the work and I can't work, please compensate me so that I can continue to live"? Well, this didn't do by the state, we demanded that the state do it. At the time that the Galician Union set the bridge over the Noia River, the Galician Union itself compensated the Confirmary of Noia for the amount necessary to cover the possible compensations that were needed during the time of the work. For the same thing, the state, since it's dredging, will have to see that it has to compensate these sailors. But going beyond that, the Galician Council, two years ago, at a meeting in the Government Delegation, where the neighbouring municipalities were also present, offered to make the most of a social plan to help the mariners in this task. And in that social plan we proposed that Junta should put 10%, each of the municipalities 10%, because we should not forget that this work will benefit the municipalities as well, and the seamen of the Burgo River are neighbors of the municipalities that are next to the Burgo River, and therefore the Junta of Galicia, still not being competent to do the work, tries to help the mariners by making a social plan and is willing to put money. To me, since the Bloc, which always accuses us of not knowing that, if I wanted to pay with money from the Greeks something that the central government has to pay, I haven't just fit into my nationalistic logic; I really don't. I don't know how everyone else sees it, but I think the logic is that, if the Government has to pay compensation, first, that thinks about the sailors, who are the most affected; then, if you have to make an improvement on the seawalk, because they do it too; I don't say you don't do it. But, hey!, why is the project changed to more than 2 million euros to meet the city councils' requests and don't the marishers get paid with a million euros for the damage they have to stop marinating? That that was another one. They already wanted them to stop fishing for a year, when they haven't bid the work today. That's right, they've already announced it three times. Then they accuse us that we are the ones we do most in advertising and the ones we sell most. But I've seen it in the newspapers for three months now that the work was auctioned; I check the BOE every day and yet I haven't seen it bid, but sold it's already for three times. I – I tell you – criticisms will always accept them, whenever they are constructive. If they're critical of destroying the sector, they'll certainly face me, and all the criticisms I'll try to defend them with data. I come here always supporting my arguments with data. On that line I pledge to continue to work in defence of Galician marine-fishing sector. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u160	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Agenda Change
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u161	There's a change in the agenda now, and we've passed the substance, which is a question. Q. Ramón Fernández Alfonzo, from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the willingness of the Government of Galicia to initiate a process of recovery of marine production in the Ferrol River, in the process of articulating measures of economic and social protection for the mariners of the river, with figures such as biological unemployment
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u162	Mr. Fernández, anytime.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u163	Counsellor, you are undoubtedly aware of the agreement adopted unanimously in this parliament on the initiative of the BNG, who says textually: "The Galician Parliament urges the Government of the Union and the Central Government to immediately initiate a genuine process of recovery of seafood production in the Ferrol River, in collaboration with the confreries of the area, with the technicians of the Sea Council and with the Graña Marine Biology Station, to which measures will be accompanied by economic and social protection measures of mariners and mariners committed to the sector itself." We did not have the opportunity to know at parliamentary headquarters what action the Union — we were waiting for — would be doing to comply with this agreement, until in its presence in the Committee on Budgets you referred to Ferrol's laugh. And he said, besides some inaccuracy about the fact that it's the whole Ferrol B creek, when there's two zones C and another unclassified, which he's not willing to do in Ferrol's creek. Now you can't tell us what your advisor's plan is to save Ferrol's laugh, as this parliament has agreed. Counsellor, I suppose you know that the BNG has been meeting for some time with the wineries of the river, as well as with the staff of the Marine Biology Station of the Queen. Everyone shares that the accumulation of mud for so many years, in which sanitation did not exist, as well as the continued incorporation of artificial barriers into the river, seem to be obviously the two determinants of the current situation, although they are certainly not the only ones. The Grain Station technicians and confrries agree on the need to develop an integral study of the river, before undertaking any regenerating work, a study that should contain water parameters, sediments and water dynamics. As we are told, the conduct of this study should not have a high cost. The main problem will be the deadline for its completion, for to do so rigorously must take place during different tide phases, and time is precisely what people in the sector today do not have in the Ferrol River. In any case, they coincide with the need to do so without delay, in order to be able to design the necessary regeneration process on solid bases, confirming or discarding the incidence of some of the factors that a priori may seem relevant, but above all to avoid doing some work that the posteriori is unproductive or even harmful. Counsellor, you know that the situation in the Ferrol River is practically collapse, with half of the completely lost pias seafood bank, which was on your day the most productive bank in all of Galicia, with the problem that this also entails for the growing up in the rest of the banks. She is also aware of the social situation that this is causing in the sector and therefore in our region. What is the Union's plan, therefore, to implement the regeneration of the river and what are the social protection measures agreed upon with the sector? Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u164	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Alfonso. Answer from the sea councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u165	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, to begin with I will tell you that yes, we are willing to begin the process of marine recovery of the Ferrol River, even more, not only immediately but we have already come to do so in these past times, even in solitary and without any support from other administrations except that of the Ferrol Harbour Authority. That's why this question should perhaps be formulated to other administrations, which even in recent days have shown their support for this process, and which I hope they place it where they have to shape, in commitments, because some of their demands are about issues we've been waiting for a couple of years. We're willing to move forward in the best of Ferrol's stream, because that's what we've been doing since 2009. We worked on this line when, with the help of other governments, the Council of Ferrol and the Waters of Galicia, the sanitation works were carried out that enabled the improvement in four of the marine areas and did not get worse at any. We worked on this line when we were able to stop the fall of the marsqueo permex, from 123 in 2010 to 233 in 2019, and stabilize the number of boats that count with the fleet permit of marsqueo from 2013. We worked on this line when we set up the reinstallation battery system in 2012, thanks to which much of the extractive activity could be resumed throughout the year and put on the market 320 tons of shellfish extracted, and generate 2.7 million euros at first sale. We've been working on this line when we approved, since 2010, 42 re-engineering projects to the river confrereries, and we've developed jobs with investment owned by the board to improve the state of the banks, adding about 2 million euros of economic nearing. We worked on this line when we started almost a year ago to analyze the possibility of developing work, along with the Graña Biological Station, to add effort to the knowledge of the circumstances that diminish the production of the river, and that other formations just seem to know with only one eye. Since then, with this balance, and the intact will, we -- and I'm telling you, I've already told you at the budget meeting -- are ready to continue working for the Ferrol River and its collective of seafaring people, and we bet on putting 1.5 million euros for this task during the year 2021. Others are, Mr. Fernández, those who must be added, because one thing is preaching and another is giving wheat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u166	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Fernández Alfonso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u167	Counsellor, we know from memory your litany about how much you've done by Ferrol's laugh, but you'll have to accept once and in view of the current situation that you don't give on the nail. Today, the accumulation of mud is such that it can practically go down the tide with low tides from Neda to Couto. The nearness of the arids, indeed, the plows, the beat, despite their cost — this does not deny anyone — have not solved the problem until now, and it does not seem that they will solve it in the future. The seafood sector in Ferrol is dying of starvation, it's driving people out of the sector; so far it's been little by little, it's very likely that after the Christmas campaign it increases in an important way. Assuming you're acting in good faith — because in Ferrol's laugh there are already a lot of people who are questioning you — you'll have to correct what you've done so far. If what happens is that you're delaying the solution to the problem of the river, because in order to resolve it definitely, beyond the usual patches, it requires strong investments and the participation of other administrations, say it, you draw a roadmap and put your hands on it to get the funds and collaboration of those who need it, but assume this as an undeniable obligation from your department and from the Government of the Union as a whole. Ferrol's laugh can and must be very productive, very productive, it can and must be that source of wealth that needs our region so much, and public investment in the river to achieve that goal -- it does well what I'm going to tell you -- it must be what it takes. It's not assumed to let a creek die, which is what's happening in Ferrol. Not in this country, not in Galicia. The same can be said of expelling workers from the sector. The laugh is the company -- you said it, my companion said it earlier -- where they work. The Galician Union is responsible for the well-being of the laugh for its exploitation. If, in order to re-establish the stream, we need to paralyze the activity, we have to actually give people a solution for as long as they can't work, and then we have to negotiate with the sector. In charge of a technical study on the laugh to the bodies of the Counsellor and the Grain Station, as approved in this parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u168	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u169	They therefore draw a corresponding path sheet, but no longer add the necessary solution.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u170	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. Close the question, Counselor of the Sea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u171	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Fernández, look, I don't know how I'm going to explain it anymore, I've explained it to you the other day at the budget show: I'm not the one who decides what to do in the Ferrol stream, it's the technicians who make the proposals, and we're the only ones who do it is to meet the technical recommendations and look for the money needed to cover those requests that they make, and so we're doing it. There is no need to approve here in Parliament of Galicia the need to work with the Grain Biology Station, we are already working with it, we already ask Graine researchers, as knowledgeable as they are of the operation of the Ferrol River, to tell us what they think it is necessary to do to recover production in that area. We all agree with the sector, absolutely everything, we have it going on. There are others who don't have it in motion and who have the commitment to do so. For two years now, the Government sub-delegated has committed itself to the sector to commission a study to Cedex to see what happened in sediments. We're waiting for that study. If the study decides that something more needs to be done, it will be done, but all we have to do is get it started. It's quite true that you have to be very careful about what you talk about, what you say and what you do about it, because I remind you that in 2006 you decided to pay the mariners for doing some work to maintain the productivity of the stream. EUR 38 million has been invested in European funds on the condition that they recover and maintain production in the stream. We can't be saying that production was not recovered in the stream after all this money invested. Maybe they don't blame the Marishers for a bad investment that was made in 2006 and so on. So we don't want to say what to do. It has to be the technicians who tell us what to do. It is true that technicians have found that Perkinsus has been infected, but also technicians themselves recognize that this must not be the only factor causing the disappearance of production in the stream, because it is quite true that Perkinsus is a parasite that has a great impact on plumage and that we have it in other parts of Galicia where productivity has not been reduced. So we understand that there has to be something bigger, that we don't have a glass bowl, that I can't tell you what's going on. All I can tell you is that my commitment continues to be effective, that all studies must be done, that all administrations must be committed; we are already doing so. The commitment to the Grain Institute is under way. And now we hope that Cedex's report, two years ago, too, which would in theory be done, because once again we have it and we can take the necessary steps on the basis of this study to recover the productivity of an area as important to the marine Galicia as Ferrol's laugh. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u172	Thank you, Counselor. We suspended the session until 4:30, four and a half.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u173	Good afternoon. We resumed the session with the fifth item on the agenda, appeals. Da Noa Presas Bergantiños and three other members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the policy of the Greek Government in relation to the wind sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u174	To formulate the inquiry, you have the floor to Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u175	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Good afternoon, Mr. Count. Counsellor, today we have asked you about the situation of the wind sector in our country, and I have to start by telling you that we do so with great concern, with great concern about the consequences of the past that we have still been dragging, but especially because of the current development of the wind sector in our country. Because look, you first were responsible that our country had lost positions and suffered a decade of life-long, unique and exclusive parion – and it is necessary to remember it today – for its political sectarianism and an industrial and energy policy that had exacerbated neoliberalism as the only strategy. [[Applause]] You used the sector as a political arian, and our country paid for the consequences. Thus, in the first decade of his Government – – you were already there – – the sector was paralyzed; there were years in which even zero megawatts were installed in our country. They gave up control of public participation, and that was not only a loss of economic income in a period of economic crisis, but they also gave up active participation in the design of the model. It also had consequences like the payment of more than three million euros from the budgets of the Galician Council in the matter of judicial judgments, for having cancelled the Bipartite competition. We have seen how this public participation has changed, also because of a very limited return to the municipalities, with a failed tax policy, which leaves us an Environmental Compensation Fund where everyone reigns is obscurantism and that leaves us, for example, situations such as the one analyzed by the Galician Wind Observatory, which estimates that local and rural income for landowners only weighs about 5% of the total of those multimillionaire bills that are generated by the wind of our country. In short, this model has not been used to transform the economic and social reality of rural populations, which is where this resource is mainly based. And you also sponsored a loss of economic guarantees and employment and industrial projects, because what you did, instead of demanding those projects attached to the territory, was to take steps such as allowing the modification of parks, so that promoters had easier to circumvent commitments. In short, Galicia lost positions, lost a very valuable time, lost a very important investor effort that it had made before, was affected by regulatory changes in the area of the state, by the majority of which were driven by the People's Party, and thus lost employment and also lost a business fabric that had associated with this sector. So, we have stories of failures like T-Solar, like Isobar, or even today the media collected how Emesa is aimed at an extinct ERE. But this didn't stay here, but today we have a reality in which the present, especially in the future, are very worrying. And that's why the sense of this interpellation, because we're in a certain way in front of the saying that "it's worse the cure than the disease," because we've come from an earlier paralysing scenario, but right now we're seeing how you're sponsoring an wind ballast, with a model that is alien to the social, economic and environmental interests of this country, Mr. Conde. Only in 2019, by setting an example of this new ballast, was there in our country 19 more parks, more than 400 megawatts were installed in one year; in the previous decade, until 2018, they didn't even reach 300. This, apparently, could be a good news, but the question is, the way they're doing this new development of the wind is being an outcome. We're living a ballast that's in service, Mr. Conde, just from the oligopolies and you don't have a proper planning along the territory. Here are the examples. This divorce continues between wind development and the innovative and university fabric of our country. There's no specific schedule for which to have our new energy model in this transition context. The energy guidelines of the Galician Union are a folio and medium that do not mark that roadmap and the legal framework is obsolete; these projects are still being designed on the basis of the 1997 framework; and that's why you refused to consent and promote a new sectoral wind plan in this country. Inega has no vector role, and we don't know what role the European funds will play in the wind development of our country. For example, you're talking about green hydrogen macroplants, when you know that they would be more efficient, from all standpoints, plants more to the small scale and close to wind installations, so they would take advantage of greater efficiency. And you're also going against what makes Europe and what makes up advanced countries with regard to environmental protection, so that nowadays the management and protection figures of our territory are an extinct species, and so you're making an absolute breach of the Natura Network, which is not its extension or expected; it allows you projects that affect both areas that were intended to be expanded in 2008 and 2012. We have dramatic examples, such as the silk saw. And finally, in this context that we are living in, where the energy transition and the precipitation of the end of coal invite a new energy model, we see how that new Green Deal in which we are becoming is an alibi of capitalism to reinvent itself as a green capitalism but which is not taking our interests into account. We are not at all faced with a paradigm shift, but with an energy conversion without dialogue, without consensus and without regard to the interests of this country. Paradigmatic is the example of one of the great precursors of that green capitalism, as Enel-Endesa is. Even as it's practically closing down a region, it's intended to be one of the most benefited from these new renewables and the new wind development without assuming a single responsibility to this country. And we regret from the BNG that you don't act in this situation, because this really happens because you're an active part, because you're an accomplice in this process, which seems to be the electricians and then who's the lawmaker. We saw it with the Business Implementation Act, which was basically an alibi to introduce a Trojan horse, so that you did it, for example, to impose that the arbitrary decisions of the Boards of Trustees have more power than the public utility of the communal mountains, for example, so that the promoters, without giving just justification, can adhere to this question. They made expropriations on a standard basis. Our country's own Wind Observatory places, as from 2017, from that law, the expropriations have greatly increased. And, in fact, it's better any bad deal than forced expropriation, and you know it perfectly. They know it perfectly, because what they did was to turn their backs on social interests, to be profiled as administration. There are no public consultation, counselling, support tools, and people, municipalities and mountain communities are abandoned in front of these great giants for whom you have cooked and produced a declaration of projects of special interest to shorten deadlines and thereby rob the ability of public opinion and civil society to question those projects when they did not agree. And that has consequences, it has consequences with a great boom of social response throughout our country to all these issues; a social answer that you are no longer able to silence, Mr. Conde. And we could put here many examples — and I would not get the time of intervention —: Galineiro's greenhouse, Groba, Morrazo's mountains, Oribio's Coast of Death and Surroundings, which is overexploited, and with social response in municipalities such as Carballo, Laxe, Santa Comba, Black, Mazaricos, Outes, Coristanco. The Central Macizo, the San Mamede greenhouse, the Command County, for example, is an example of the absolutely fraudulent fragmentation of macro projects in mini-projects to draw out environmental procedures, with silence, with the complicity of its councillor and also of the Environmental Council. We see how they apply that in other sectors as well. Recently, in the mining, after political and social pressure, they had to rectify you with respect to the Alberta I mine, which was doing exactly what many wind companies are doing in our country to draw procedures, with their silence and with their complicity. Because that's how the Galician Union is working in this new scenario where, instead of taking advantage of the opportunities to change the model, what they're doing is to profile themselves as administration and let others rule. And so on November 19th, more than sixty groups in our country were also calling for a new wind sector plan, calling for a new model. And I ask you, Mr. Conde, if you're going to meet these social demands, if you're going to correct or if you're going to continue on this line, which is a grant-free bar without social, economic and environmental guarantees and which you can't agree on. [[Applause]] Because, besides, you're only giving in when Justice acts, of course! For example, it's often late. We have the example of Sasdonigas, the damage done, and it acts the High Court of Justice, and before you haven't imposed measures because you didn't want to. It seems not to be embarrassing to them, and it seems that they simply comply with cosmetic gestures, such as Mr. Tahoces, when we know that you and the President of the Galician Union are responsible for this policy. [[Applause]] And, as if it were little, far from learning from such recent judgments as this, what they do is to bring this past Monday to this parliament, register spuriously through the Popular Parliamentary Group, a law that is the law of depredation bis, which is the law of the free bar to the transnational wind sector in this country, which in 99% to this sector shorten processing deadlines... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u176	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u177	... relax and privatize environmental processing. The one on the Nature Network, simply, has no name. So today we bring up a number of issues that you have on the initiative, which we would like you to answer, but above all we want to do is appeal to a change of course, transfer to this parliament the majority feeling of this country, which is: wind yes, but not so, and of course, that you are the Government that defends the interests of this country and not the great electric oligopolis. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u178	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Response from Vice-President Second and Economic, Enterprise and Innovation Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Presas, it's hard to say and move so much arbitrariness and sectarianism in a parliamentary intervention as you have just done right now. I understand perfectly well that in your intervention you tried to rewrite the story of what wind development was during the bipartisan government. [[Applause]] I understand it perfectly, because he probably has a very bad conscience and they probably haven't told him the whole story. [[Murmurs.]] But I'll try to logically answer all your worries, but with data. You moved here an intervention from an economic sector without a single data, I'm going to transfer specific data to you. Look, thirty-five of the thirty-six wind projects that were put into operation during the Bipartite initiated their processing before the year 2005; you put into operation a park. But like Mr Seco last week — his government partner, the Socialist Party — you forget that in August 2005 the Industry Adviser — BNG — declared that Galicia could not bear more wind farms and that the idea was to do no more but to increase energy production. That was the government line of the Nationalist Block in the wind sector. In January 2006 — curiosity — the BNG changes its mind and decides that wind energy is a strategic industry to reduce the energy dependence of coal or oil, and announces — yes — the refounding of the wind business in the only way that you understand the economy, which is to nationalize, in this case, the wind, which was its proposal. Shortly afterwards — it is true — they gave up this idea out of fear of possible legal obstacles — once again they have to be corrected — and instead they opt for a wind decree that accumulated various resources from the industry and — as you know — had eight objections from the Advisory Council in its drafting. But, above all, he forgets in his speech that the annulment of the 2008 invitation to tender by Law 8/2009 was validated by the Supreme Court, a reversal which was added to the judicial annulment of the previous competitions of 2006 and 2007, for being declared contrary to the law. I'm surprised you come here to say that we have to develop wind politics through your visions, your positions. I summarize what was the wind sector of the Bipartite — you were ruling — in the words of then President Emilio Pérez Touriño. Leo: "They did an wind competition that did not offer guarantees, from the perspective of land management, of environmental sustainability and economic viability of the projects accompanying the offers. At the end of the process he had practically taken — at least on two occasions — the decision to cease the Industry Adviser; his performance was inadmissible and of great disloyalty." That was his Industry Advisor, the Galego Nationalist Block, which was trying to develop in an absolutely arbitrary and sectarian way the wind sector. [[Applause]] But look, I come here to talk about the wind sector and an industry, because, Mrs. Presas, the wind industry in Galicia is a serious industry and the autonomous administration is a serious administration, even though you understand and want to move a completely different situation. Galicia has been able to overcome this heritage of the Bipartite and that campaign that you permanently try to move "no" from your parliamentary group, against the economy permanently, against industry and against the wind sector. I'm deeply sorry that's how it is. But look, Your Honor, the Greek wind sector generates more than 7,000 direct and indirect jobs. It brings EUR 581 million to gross domestic product, close to 1%, and pays a price of EUR 130 million in taxes, taxes and income. These are the actual and concrete data of the wind sector. And this has been possible because this government, Mrs. Presas, which is moving to the sector is legal security, a legal security that did not have the wind sector before the adoption of Law 8/2009, so a clear message of confidence was moved to the citizenship about how Galicia is developing its wind sector. We created the wind cannon, Your Honor. You know perfectly well that we are the only autonomous community, together with Castela-León and Castela-La Mancha, that we have a tax linked to the environmental impact of the parks; a tribute that is also allowing to collect up to now about 230 million euros, financing more than 2,000 projects of the municipalities. He knows perfectly well that, when possible and so permitted by the legal system, we have established associated industrial plans, which have mobilized more than 1.2 billion euros of investment and about two thousand six hundred jobs. And you know -- one more fact -- that this government has developed 741 new megawatts, 68% in the last two years; among other things, thanks to the auctions of renewables that were driven by the Government of Mariano Rajoy, who had before it solved a deep economic crisis that you forget. And it's also obvious the tariff deficit of more than €29,200 million that has left the Government of Zapatero, by the way, Your Honor, with the support of the Nationalist Block of Wales. Finally, we're talking about reality. I'm sorry that you want to rewrite your history, the history of the Galician Nationalist Block, trying to carry against a sector that is generating jobs and that is participating in Galicia's economic and social development. And I'm also very sorry that you're trying to move here that we're not complying with environmental legislation; I'm deeply sorry. You know that wind projects are authorized only if they are compatible with the rest of economic activities and all legal, technical and environmental guarantees are fulfilled. And in that sense I remind you — because you usually forget the rules when you come to this forum, and I think you should really include in your argumentaries the contents of the law, and you know perfectly well — that all parks are subject to environmental impact assessment, which is perfectly regulated by European directives and basic legislation. You probably understand that once you leave Galicia, the legal order has no validity, but the evaluation, Your Honor, is adjusted to that national European legislation. And you know perfectly well that the location of new parks on Natura Network has been banned since April 2014, and Galicia is also restricted to its repotency. So if you want to talk about the wind sector, let's talk about data, let's talk about reality, and please don't try to rewrite your story. Nor is it through the statement of public utility. You know that the declaration of public utility is collected in the law of the State's electricity sector and that the wind law states that, indeed, all relationships of goods and rights concerned must be presented and the agreements reached in the responsible declaration must be presented. I'll give you a date, Mrs. Presas. Data for the year 2019: Eighteen parks have been launched and 85% have agreed with the owners in the development of the various initiatives. So, Your Honor, this is the reality. I regret your vocation to paralyze the wind sector. And, of course, what I want this afternoon is to deliver a message of confidence to the citizen in the face of the doubts that you always intend to generate around wind energy in Galicia and also generate that same mistrust in the industrial and economic sectors of our country. The administrative process carried out on any wind farm has all legal, technical and environmental guarantees, and, in addition, this process includes, as you well know, a process of public participation in which citizenship can have access to all projects and present all the considerations it considers appropriate. Together, ultimately, it takes account of all the regulations, it is guaranteed from the point of view of the impacts, and from that point of view, the Galician Union will not authorize any project that is not compatible with the protection and sustainability of the environment. That's our way of understanding the wind sector, and I'm sorry that you're still installed in Galicia, in the "no" industry, in the "no" industry, in the wind sector, in the "no" industry, in the "no" industry. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u180	Thank you, Vice President. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mrs. Presas's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u181	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Conde, paralysing the sector, not; paralyzing this wind boom to the sole and exclusively service of large companies and investment funds to the detriment of the social, environmental and economic rights of this country and losing another development opportunity that becomes not a decade lost but a legislate of irreparable destruction, of course! [[Applause]] And it's not a question where the Galician Nationalist Block is alone. Open your eyes a little bit, go out, look also at the register of your counsellor, where you have collectives who are asking for the current wind regulations of the Galician Council for their legal insecurity, where you are asking for a new sectoral wind plan — which is not the first or this is going to be the last time we ask for this chamber too — and where you are also doing a recompilation and putting on the table — Mr. Counsellor, you who is so legalist — judgments of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia that what they say is that you have not fulfilled environmental guarantees, Mr. Counsellor, or Heritage, Mr. Counsellor, or Network Nature. I told him about Sasdonigas before, but we can talk about Oribio. There's no better deaf than you don't want to hear, and that's what happens to you. [[Applause]] Because, of course, you come here to tell me: data, data. I didn't give my data. What's the matter is I didn't give data that you like, of course. We've been talking about these years with 0 megawatts and this development now in 2019, showing up in those utility statements that give broad sleeves to the Council of Galicia, to you and to the gentlemen who sit on that table, but not to the people who are in the territory, receiving, as estimated by our country's Wind Observatory, just about 5% of the great income and benefits that generate that German wind and that generate that territory. That's the question, Mr. Count, that's the data you don't want to hear, because they're indisputable. The question of employment. Of course, you come here with that figure given by the Galician Wind Association — with all due respect — of seven thousand and I peak jobs, as soon as you computed who passed by an airliner. Because, among other things, the Navantia people — who actually do metal carpentry with elements that go to wind — but that there is no team here with added value development. Because you, among other things, over the course of this time have also lost opportunities in that area, that the part of added value has remained here. And there were many companies and sectors that were also closed thanks to their paralysis. Of course, legal security, finally, you say while you nail your pupil to my blue pupil, Mr. Count. [[Laughter]] Because, really, judgments of the courts of our country, Supreme Court judgment, are very clear. [[Murmurs.]] Counselor, I don't know if I have to take back on this camera the budgetary changes of the Galician Union, which cost us the Greeks and Greeks more than three million euros for what you did with the Bipartite wind competition. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantiños shows a document.]] Counsellor, that is indeed the price that our country had to pay for this political sectarianism. You've come so excited that you told us we'd raise 320 million of the wind cannon. You have reviewed, please, since you are a Member, the Budget Act, which will also pass with your vote. And also check those 38 million euros that we're paying all the Welsh and Welsh, too, you, me, on our bill of light for those territorial supplements thanks to you and Mr. Rajoy. Or take a look at the discontent there is in our country, because, of course, it's resting now. Repotencing is not harmless, because they're larger machines, because they have a greater impact on pass-by servitudes and a long et cetera, and the municipalities are going to charge less and less through that part that corresponds to the wind cannon. Because it's meant to charge for mills and not charge for power. You don't change it, because you don't like friends who embrace you and Mr. Feijó. That's why they don't change it. And yet, Counselor. [[Applause]] It can't be seen that the rule is guaranteed, because you know perfectly well that the court rulings and claims you're receiving do not say the same thing. And what this country says is that wind, yes, but -- I repeat -- not this way. And finally, a brief point. The other examples of doing things, because, of course, here you talked about what we wanted to nationalize the wind. In fact, we want to take advantage of the natural resources of the Greeks and the Greeks, not to speculate with electricity, but to make it a good guarantee for the population and for the small and medium-sized enterprises in our country. And that could be achieved with that public participation that you reinvest in the economic system. That's what you should look at. Maybe you should leave Galicia, because there are examples of public participation from the United States, which is the paradigm of capitalism, the Basque Country. Go to Basquedi and do something more than copy her election dates, copy something else. [[Applause]] Yesterday it even went out in the press as the public energy company Basque will have 40% of the wind farms in the public group. [[Applause]] The government of Basquedi is not a communist — which I know — but there is something that is neither stupid nor, you see, too much at the service of the big electricians. They could copy that question. They could also, of course, copy it or make a full monograph of the European funds. So then you don't have to blow up coming to this parliament to show up...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u182	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u183	...in a committee, don't say anything about the European funds and then your parliamentary group asks you to come back, see if it seems a little more democratic the procedure you're doing... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u184	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u185	...with that opportunity I'm afraid it's lost for our country. So, Mr. Count, take this question a little more seriously and answer some of the questions. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u186	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Closure of the inquiry, second vice-president and economic, business and innovation advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u187	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Presas, this is not a certain poetry. I understand perfectly that you have no interest in Galicia's economic development, have no interest, but quite the contrary. [[Laughter]] Your interest is to close companies. By the way, check your intervention, but that's about the precipitation of the coal closure should certainly clarify it with your parliamentary group, because it's not exactly your position you've defended here. In any case, I think they should be careful in their statements, because, Your Honor, it's not all political. When you ruled, the windman in Galicia just went backwards. That is a perfectly established reality, and not only from an economic point of view, but also from a political point of view and from a legal point of view. And so I think they should be a little bit more humble, recognize the mistakes and, of course, if they want Galicia's economic development, try to collaborate with the development of the sector. Because it seems that the only interest that the Galician Nationalist Block has is simply to block, in this case to block the development of a sector. Look, if you're really sure that environmental criteria are being breached, you have to go to the courts and therefore not use this camera simply to transfer sectarian positions and demagogic positions by the Nationalist Block Galego. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I am sure that the Council of Galicia always respects the rule of law — we have proved — and that it always takes all measures in defence of the general interest, as we have shown. I understand perfectly well that you have as your sole objective the nationalization of the sector; unfortunately, you won't find us there. That, yes, the difference with respect to the Government is that we try to transfer coherence, because the wind sector understands that it is an opportunity to carry out a fair energy transition and, of course, an opportunity to continue to generate employment and wealth in Galicia, and of course we will continue to do so with all guarantees from the legal point of view and with all guarantees from the normative point of view. And indeed, Your Honor, a new law of reactivation that will serve to be more agile in administrative processing; of course, yes, more agile. I understand that you do not share this position, but we will try to push administrative axillization within the wind sector precisely seeking that business projects have a response, regardless of their size — whether large, medium, small — and, of course, keeping all and each of the guarantees that up to now were also within their own regulations. We therefore have an opportunity for the development of European funds, of which you seem to want to mock, and, of course, since the Galician Union we will try to push these initiatives forward so that there can be a real economic and social transformation and, of course, that these funds will also serve the development of the wind sector. And so in this law, Your Honor, a uniform and simplified procedure will be put in place for the authorisations of electrical installations, because we understand that they are relevant to the whole production sector. So we're going to work on that administrative axillization. I hope that in this case the parliamentary groups will be able to join this government vocation to dynamize our economy. As for the wind cannon, I said it well, Your Honor: 229 million euros have been raised by this government since the wind cannon was implanted. And so there's a measure that clearly tries to generate and reverse this environmental impact that generates the development of the sector. There are only three autonomous communities that have this canon or similar, and therefore we will continue to work to be guaranteed from the point of view of the development of the sector. In short, Your Honor, there's no reason for the Galego Nationalist Block to start a campaign against the wind sector again, it's simply irresponsible and has no criteria at all at this time that we're working on that energy and economic transformation. We have a serious industry — I repeat — a serious wind industry and we also have a serious administration that will drive the wind sector whenever it is compatible with the rest of the economic activities, seeking consensus with all parties, respecting the agreements and thus facilitating the sector to be a vector of growth, a vector of wealth and a vector of job creation as well. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u188	Thank you, Vice President. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Interpellation of the Mercedes Complaints Zas and three other Members of the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block, on the policy of the Government of Greece in relation to the sanitation of rivers
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u189	To formulate the plea, Mr. Bará has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u190	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor. This interpellation that BNG makes is to ask questions and also to make proposals. The proposals will be made primarily by means of the motion. We'll make a few proposals here today too. And the first thing we want to tell you is that this interpellation is the result of BNG's concern about the situation of rivers, rivers, river ecosystems, wetlands, river basins, which actually form a set, and what happens in the Groba saw, in the Swedish sawmill, in the Eume park also affects the rivers where the rivers that are born in these habitats and in those ecosystems. And that's why it's so important to protect them and not destroy them, as if you're systematically doing in recent years with those laws that the People's Party is approving -- we have to say so -- serving the interests of large transnational corporations that come here to depreciate our resources with the complicity of the Galician Union, which stands by its side, against the interests of people. Look, I don't know if you know where this picture is. I don't know if the images I have here look good. [[Mr. Bará Torres shows a photograph.]] I'm in Corme at Roncudo promontory. I suppose you'll meet this area, which is being torn apart by a repotencing, an area protected by the figure of the Natura Network, where there's a protected wetlands that are literally being torn apart. The truth is it hurts, it hurts to be there and it hurts to see these images. I don't know if you're hurt, we're hurt. And if they do this with the Natura Network, what will they do with the rest of the country, Counselor? This can't be agreed. And you should do something to avoid this outcome. It's not fair that you do this with places that should be protected as sacred places almost. Because laughs are unique ecosystems, they're ecological reserves, they're biodiversity paradises, and they're also production and wealth generation factories, with sustainable economic activities that have been done for a long time, even though in some places they don't want to understand it. And they are also privileged places for leisure, leisure, sports, tourism activities, which also generate dynamism and economic activity, well-being and wealth. That's why it's so important to memala, to take care of them, to protect them. One of the great lessons that this pandemic leaves us is that natural spaces, which biodiversity are protective shields, are like collective life insurance. We can't afford to destroy them, to undo them, to rattle them, as if many of them are doing. And the first problem, the first need is that we need the ability to act on all these spaces. We need decision-making ability about them. We call it sovereignty; I don't know what you call it. We can also call it the ability to govern food things, which are very important. And the first question is whether you share this vision that we have in the BNG, which is important that we have control and decision on all these issues. Because if you share this, you don't notice. And I want to remind you that in the 2009 electoral programme you were going to ask the Central Government -- I don't remember who was ruling at that time -- the powers in fisheries management, oceanographic research -- I remind you of the agreement we had recently had in a commission -- the ports of general interest, the nautical-fishing professional titrations, the management of the coast and the management of the public domain of the sea-terrestrial -- i.e. the competences on the shores, the hydrographic enclosures, the meteorology -- what was all this, Counsellor, that you were going to ask for in 2009, when the President of the Union said that he began the period of greatest self-government in the history of Galicia? And you know what the balance is, you know what the result is? Zero, zero potato. Zero potato with Zapatero... I won't do poetry, as he did before; neither will I proceed, as the counsellor did. [[Murmurs.]] But with Zapatero, with Rajoy, with Sánchez, with all of them, with zero competences, zero transfers, and they are fundamental issues to manage globally, comprehensively, with a joint vision, these so important ecosystems. And they didn't. Have you considered defending the interests of the sea and the Greek coast and demanding these powers? That's the first question I want to ask you. Skills that already have other communities, historical nationalities, nations, as they want to call them. They've got them. The third question, Counsellor, how do you value the state of health of the Galician rivers? We think it's very worrisome. And it's very serious, in addition, because you assume that they invested more than 1,100 million euros in stream sanitation. So the results of truth leave much to be desired. And we don't say that. Say it yourself. It says Galician Waters when they say, for example, that they did an audit of the debuggers, the municipal management EDARs, and that half — more than half — work badly. They'll have to see you, who designed the projects and built many of these debuggers. By the way, another question: when are you going to do an audit of the twenty-eight debuggers that manage directly the waters of Galicia, Counselor? BNG asked him in the past legislation. We're waiting for an answer. Looken, a press headline with data from Galician Waters: "The Galician rivers bear nearly 1,600 spills in 2019, 21% more than in 2014." We're going to get worse with that wonderful management and those millions of investments that they say they're doing. The reality is this, it's the data from Galician Waters. Do you know what the laugh has more pollutants? Well, it's Galicia's most productive laugh. A companion of mine says it's the most productive laugh in the world; I daren't say so much. It's Arousa's laugh. It's the one with the most pollutants. She's 60, and they were 66 the year before. It didn't get much better. And the next is the creek of Muros and Noia, with 45. Then comes Vigo, with 30; Ferrol, with 29; Ares and Betanzos, with 19; and Pontevedra, with 18. They're dirty, toxic and dangerous. And what are you doing in this situation? We think it's necessary to do an audit of all the investments that the Galician Union has made in these years. Are you ready to do this? It's another question I leave here on the table, I expect an answer. Numerous scientific studies from universities, from scientific organisms, have been alerting to the serious environmental problems of the Galician rivers, which cause them to lose productivity and biodiversity. And they talk about the causes of this situation. One of the main things is the malfunction of the network of debuggers and sanitation — including the most advanced technology recently built by the Galician Union. And there are studies at the University of Vigo made in several laughs that I can deliver to you and prove that it is. And I could put a lot of examples. Today we've talked about Ferrol's creek and we've also talked about Burgo's creek in the morning. But I could talk to you, for example, about the Minor's Foz. There is a study that says that the situation of this space, which is declared Nature Network, is equivalent to an outdoor cloaca, the open sky. That's how researchers at the University of Vigo literally put it. How do you feel about this situation? I remind you that you manage the debuggers of the Minor Foz — Eagles of Galicia. What can you tell me about this? Yeah, he'll say no, it's municipal competition. But you manage the Minor's Foz debuggers. And another question: when do you think about doing the Galician General Sanitation Plan, which is up to the Galician Union and is in the budgets of the Union year after year? Year after year is also planned in addition to the Galicia-Costa Hydrological Plan, with an amount for that purpose that they have not spent. Finally, I could also tell you about the Arousa River again, the Ares and Betanzos River, the Eume situation... Finally, the number of cases, and the pollution by heavy metals — from which they are also alerting different scientific studies — and the pollution by myrcroplastics — which is the great threat we have in our marine ecosystems as well. But, Counsellor, I end with a question: do you not believe that in a country that has 1,500 miles of coastline, as is Galicia, that has eighteen laughs, with prestigious research centers, with the Campus do Mar, with reference university titles, with the Intemar, there should not really be a plan, a monitoring program, follow-up, control, analysis of all the really, really, and not what is going on? Because studies are being carried out isolated by several organisms and a global plan for analysis and follow-up, control, monitoring of all this contamination is not being made. They're going out in isolation studies from one organism and another, but there's no such thing. And the BNG wants to propose to you here, Counselor, is a rescue plan for the Galician rivers. That's what we need right now, an integral plan for sanitation and regeneration of the rivers of the entire administration, not that you do a thing Sea, that you do another thing Environment, that you do another thing Infrastructures, waters of Galicia, and that you don't know your right hand what your left hand does. We need that rescue plan. What better tractor project, Madam Counsellor — really tractor, not that of Mr. Fexóo's and Mr. Conde's Ibex companies — for a wealth factory like the laughter of thousands of Galician families living from the sea, fishing, aquaculture and shellfish, and what do you want to continue living for many years? I think they deserve that attention, that effort of the German Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u191	Thank you, Mr Bará. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Answer by the Infrastructure & Mobility Advisor, Ms. Ethel Vázquez Mourelle.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u192	Thank you, President. I thank you, Mr Bará, that we can talk today about the healing of the Galician rivers. He knows it's a matter that is a priority for us. And at the entrance I've already told you that I'm also sorry that you don't know and know what the waters of Galicia are doing. That's why I appreciate even more the opportunity to tell you and explain to you that Galician Waters is constantly controlling the pollution of the Galician rivers. I'm sorry you don't know, but you do. For us, it's a priority, and so we've shown it since 2009. And we agreed that I'm a wealth factory for all the German rivers. We are talking not only about the environmental importance but about the impact it has on fishing, aquaculture, seafood, tourism and even public health. So it's a priority for us, and there are facts and investments day after day. And I insist again on a killing, on something I always say and it doesn't seem to be quiet but it is. Supply, sanitation, and debugging are municipal powers. It's the basic law of local regime. At some point they agree with me. Now they seem to deviate, but it's a state basic law. And I'm telling you something else: the competent in the spills in the sanitation networks are the municipalities. This does not take away our cooperation, but the competences are who they are. And we can't invade the municipal powers. The municipalities also charge the corresponding fees to keep those services well managed, well maintained, and to modernize the networks and which is invested, which are investments and finalist rates. Having clarified this division of competence, I insist again that collaboration is not incompatible. And that's what we're doing: supporting and helping the municipalities in their competences, as is the sanitation of the Welsh rivers. Since June, we have invested very much in the main objective of efficient and responsible use of the integral water cycle management. And, Mr Bará, never had Galicia a government with so much involvement and so much commitment to the sanitation of the Welsh rivers like this. He never had it in the history of Galician autonomy, so committed. The EUR 1,100 million is not a saying, they are clear facts, concrete investments that are there, in the territory. I'll invite you to go to work. Sometimes you have to go more to the ground and see the works going on to see the investments made. There are 300 supply actions in 165 municipalities; 350 in sanitation; 45 debuggers. It's two-thirds of the population with debugger. But the debugger must be exploited, it must be kept, you know, Mr. Bará? That's forgotten. Perhaps the rescue plan is in good management and exploitation of the investments that are made. Don't get confused, that's the rescue plan -- where I hope we can match -- to clean up the rivers and the rivers of Greece. 90% of the agglomerations have and comply with the European directive, because we run all these debuggers by helping the municipalities in their powers. And I wonder where the provincial deputies -- the city councils -- are the ones who have the legal obligation to help, yes, the municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants. Where are they? You're co-governing in the MPs. Where are you helping the municipalities in that competition that they have with the municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants? The government of the state, which also has powers, has a watershed in Galicia, has the powers of the back. We ran into Cotes to make the debugger of Foz, which you told me about. Well, see if you can talk to Coast to see if the proceedings are agitating, because they're eternal, and they're filling us up. It's a shame, I'm sorry that you don't extend your vehemences and that emphasis on asking only for the board of Galicia, when we're all helping the councils, all the administrations. Where are the deputies? Since 2009, with firmness and effective action, we have improved at seven points the quality of water and its good state; in very singular areas, such as laughter. Because I insist again that they are unique ecosystems -- and of course we agree -- it's a peculiarity, a singularity of ours, of Galicia. That is why we have fishing, seafood, aquaculture, tourism. Our laughs are potentials that we have to take very seriously. And, Your Honor, we're improving the water quality of our streams with a basic tool: planning, investment planning and technical effort. Because the local sanitation plans were thanks to this government, analyzing palm to palm. Ask the Town Hall of Pontevedra, because you have all the information from your entire sanitation network — which you should have. That's thanks to the Galician Union, because we made the local sanitation plan. And the first, Your Honor — I was in the direction of the waters of Galicia — was that of the Arousa River. It was from this Government that the local sanitation plan — as much as you talked about — of the Arousa River; also of the Burgo River. Investments in the Arousa River: the debugger of Ribeira, that of Corrubedo, that of the Grove too — which, by the way, I didn't want to exploit it — wanted to collapse but explode, no. We can't do these works five times, we have to do them one time and exploit them well, like we do the works in our homes. And, of course, justice has come to put in order who has to exploit the debugger. We have also done the debugger of Ribadumia, works in Rianxo — in execution, with 14 million euros — and we are working on the sanitation of Vilagarcia, Vilanova, Cambados — 61 million euros are mobilizing in the Arousa River. In the Burgo River: Bens Debugger, Storm Tank in Santa Cruz and the Temple — 100 million euros —. What about the dredging? We did what corresponds to the help of the Town Councils. Where's the dredging? Don't move. And that was already in January 2019 when we made the financing solution. And now all the excuses are over, there's no more excuses. What about the dredging of Burgo's creek, what do I think I haven't heard from him? In the river Pontevedra we have the only one of the big cities that does not exploit its debugger. Look what you're interested in sanitizing your laughs! Because to clean up, systems must be properly exploited. We have EUR 65 million in the Pontevedra River, in the local sanitation plan; EUR 10 million in the improvement of the pleasures — a new submarine emissary with more than EUR 8 million —; 10 new actions that we have just proposed to all the municipalities of the Pontevedra River to clean up the stream, with EUR 47 million in total, of which we are running EUR 32 million. We need and ask for cooperation from the municipalities. We can't do the work the municipalities have to do, because they have their powers. And, Your Honor, it's been years to solve the problem of the river Gafos. In 2019 there were 28 inspections we had to carry out in the river Gafos — almost all were in the municipality of Pontevedra. Won't you have something to do with the sanitation network? It's everyone else's fault, too. And, look, the Town Hall of Pontevedra comes up at supply rates — of debugging, not, of course, they don't manage the debugger — of sewerage and supply, 6.3 million euros a year. With €6.3 million a year, how many collectors and sanitation measures can we do? Thirty and a mile! And what do you guys do, where do you invest? So don't come up with any lessons in eliminating spills, and so on, and so on. I think it's all more complex. And see if you can tell me where you're going to spend the €6.3 million a year entering the Pontevedra Town Hall for fees to manage supply and sanitation. We can keep talking about the creeks of Cee-Corcubion, of Camarines. We built the Gate Bridge Debugger. The Board also gave yesterday, the other day, the green light to the drafting of the project so that they could expropriate and avoid spills — 5 million euros —. In Walls and Girl, also 14 million euros in collectors and in EDAR — also in the general collectors of Esteiro. In the core of Esteiro, other performances of 7 million euros. In girl, 4.5 million euros. In Port of Sound, the general collectors and EDAR, 14 million euros. Together, 40 million euros in the stream of Walls and Girl. In the Vigo River, in the Lagares Debugger, more than 200 million euros. It's 100 million euros from Galician Union to invest in the biggest hydraulic work to clean up the stream. And we'll follow next year with the sanitation at Teis, helping the council to exercise its powers despite the fees. In the Bayona Debugger, 26 million euros. We try to push sanitation in Gondomar, but, of course, soon interrupts our own council after asking for our works. In the Ferrol River you have already reported investments by the most important Galician board, which adds to the last act of 7 million euros in the Malata. At Rías Altas, the debugger of Ribadeo made it to the Council of Galicia. But, Your Honor, the exploitation of Ribadeo's debugger, where you rule, nothing they want to know. I sent an attentive letter to the mayor, who can assume the operation of the debugger, and did not bother to answer. I don't think it bothers you to answer enough of the lack of interest. In Foz and Burela we want to do, we want to invest 8 million euros in Foz and 10 million euros in Burela. But the truth is, Coastal does make it very complicated. Ladies and gentlemen, I have here a plan of Galicia-costa with all its investments in the rivers: Vigo, Baiona, Pontevedra, Arousa, Muros-Noia, Cee, Corcubion... all this. I suppose he'll be overwhelmed, because this has to be invested, but it has to be exploited. The hydraulic infrastructure we do must be well exploited. And there you are, I invite you to this rescue plan, which is a society to exploit well what is executed. Because that's the big problem, you know it perfectly well. Because since you don't want to know anything about the exploitation of Pontevedra's debugger, 5 million euros to create this society. And I hope this rescue plan will have your support if you really want to take a step forward to really clean up the rivers of Galicia, the rivers of Greece. Because the pending subject is the good exploitation of the systems of the integral water cycle. For my part, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u193	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. Bará's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u194	Galician waters control the water spills, but I didn't tell you about the water spills, I told you about an integral control of all the rivers as ecosystems. But, look at what control does -- I read the headlines -- "The Vigo and Ferrol laughs are highly contaminated by copper." This doesn't measure Galician waters, this invests them in the Greek universities, but you don't count on them. Look, "The microplastics invade the low streams." This doesn't control the Galician Waters, this is investigating the Greek universities. [[Mr. Bará Torres displays a document from the stage.]] See: "Investigators from the Oceanographic Centre of Vigo present a complete study to analyze the main contaminants in the most productive rivers of Galicia." This does not promote it to the Galician Union, which has competences in inland waters. This promotes him at the university, and you look elsewhere. They should be at the forefront of all these investigations and have a public body with competences in all these matters in order to be able to track, monitor, control, and then logically do the regeneration of all these great spaces. But they're not doing it. Skills. You come here with the basic skills mackerel. But it's just that you put in the Galician Water Law what the powers of the autonomous administration are. And Article 32 clearly states that the works and infrastructures for the sanitation and purification of urban waste water are of interest to the Autonomous Community of Galicia. Yes, yes, yes!, in the Greek sanitation plan that they didn't, that they didn't, that they're not doing. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He's not doing it.Oh, my God! Sure, anybody like that. They don't do the General Sanitation Plan and then they don't take care of anything. But the law says they have to do it, that they have to take care of these urban debugging works. So read the law well. You also charge the Galician Water cobra, and you have to explain to us how you invest those funds and the sectarianism that you use to invest them. And then I'm also talking to him about Pontevedra. There are 1,100 million euros and 1,600 points of dumping, and increasing. Something's going to hurt! They should have a little less sovereignty and come down a little more to the ground — or to the sea — and see how things are. Debuggers. I told him about the Minor's Foz and he didn't tell me about it. There are three debuggers —Nigran, Baiona and Gondomar — managed by the Galician Waters. And do you know what that study said the Ecotox group at the University of Vigo did? The highest amount of Foz contamination is the arrival by the Minor River — where the debugger of Gondomar is. "The Minor River, as it passes through the tip of the EDAR of Gondomar, has already leveled intolerably high levels of fecal bacteria," in a debugger managed by the waters of Galicia! So take note and do something to solve this situation. Planning. I urge you to do the Galician General Sanitation Plan, which you are not doing. It's recorded in the budgets, it's on the Galician hydrological plan. I got him here. By the way, it is also here, on the Galician Coastal Hydrological Plan 2016-2021, the collector of the Gafos, in the municipality of Pontevedra, that you have not done by sectarianism, Counselor, by sectarianism! [[Mr. Bará Torres displays a document from the stage.]] He was adjudicated in 2010 and you cancelled that adjudication by sectarianism. But that collector -- that you put in the local sanitation plan that needs to be done -- is done. They don't even make plans, they don't know! It's done. It was made through an agreement between the council and the deputation. You had it on the hydrological plan and you didn't do it for a political decision. And you in the stream of Pontevedra started acting, you know when? When there was a European Union fine mix in 2016, a millionaire fine threat that had to be shared in solidarity with the Galician Union. Then they staged and made a local sanitation plan, a very poorly done plan and which, by the way, took three years to do it, three years to do it! So they've been doing nothing for eight or nine years without investing a dog. And now they're with the debugger zoom, with the debugger renewal. But in the meantime, what did they do? They made a local sanitation plan that took them three years to do it. At least the council at that time put 36 million in works and made the collector of Gafos, who had to do so by the board of Galicia. But if you really want to do something in the stream of Pontevedra, I recommend that you do something very important, that is to get the plague of Ence out of there, that's all right, that's all right! It's good to use the state cloacas and the rotating doors to impose a factory that occupies 600,000 square metres of public land in the maritime-terrestrial domain. [[Applause]] There's no right! And the worst contamination of Ence is neither of the mountains nor of the rivers, it's the democratic contamination of the state cloacas. Therefore, Counsellor, take note of these issues — many of them did not, by the way, answer them. Take note of the importance you have of making an integral plan of action for the whole of the Government, for all administrations, including with the collaboration of scientific entities and also of the universities in Greece, to, first, study and really know the situation of the Galician rivers, and then to make a rescue plan and an investment plan for their sanitation and regeneration. It's going a lot to us on that. They're going to live, the future, the security, the job, the job and the guarantees of being able to continue living and working in the rivers of Galicia to many thousands of Greek families. I hope they take note and do this that we propose to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u195	Thank you, Mr Bará. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For closing the query, the Infrastructure and Mobility Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u196	Thank you, President. I don't know what you see here about sectarianism. Viveiro, Ortigueira, Cedera, Ferrol, Vigo, Ria de Arousa, Muros-Noia, Cee, Corcubion, Camarinas... These are investments made that are there to see. When you want, we'll see all the works. Therefore, sectarianism, none; and investments, very many: 1,100 million euros since the year 2009; and in the sanitation of rivers, 600 million euros that we are mobilising. And, Your Honor, there is indeed an effective sanitation plan, there is indeed a sanitation plan. I know the Water Law, you'll know that I know it. I am in the interest of the Autonomous Community of those declared in the sanitation plan, not all that you want, not those which Mr Bará says, but those declared and placed in the sanitation plan. So it's not what you mean — it's practically only Pontevedra's debugger. I insist that collaboration is essential to support the municipalities in that complicated task that is the management of the integral cycle of water, sanitation and purification. Here's our bet on the integral sanitation of the Welsh streams, where we're leaving our skin working, leaving the tabs working, yes, even if you don't want to see it. Here are the facts and there are the performances: 600 million euros that we are mobilising only in the German rivers since 2009. Because they are important to us and they depend on fishing, aquaculture, seafood, tourism and of course also public health, which you do not refer to. We had the opportunity to talk here wide and warm about the management of the water talking about the Eume. Maybe that rescue plan is like the Eume plan. I told you about it at Eume's interrogation. But it's important that all administrations comply. And, Mr Bará, you speak of the 28 debuggers we manage. I wrote to all the mayors and no one answered me — for the debugger. None! And practically all of them are from the Socialist Party and the Nationalist Block. Nobody wants to know about the debugger. So, the mayor of Ribadeo should ask what he thinks about the debugger management, if it's okay, if it's wrong, why don't he take it if he cares so much, if he's gonna do it better... So, I think water management is much more complicated than just throwing kicks at Galicia's board because it does. And it's not the way to solve the problems. It's not an exclusive autonomous competition, you know it well. I think it's a matter -- I insist again -- complicated, and we have to help the municipalities and support them, but we can't invade their competences. We cannot expropriate because it is municipal jurisdiction, that is the decree of technical and financial cooperation. We can't make public information, they have to do town halls. We can't have licenses, etc. It's documentation that has to do the Town Hall and sometimes becomes eternal. I wonder, don't you know that the Cabana Town Hall took over a year to give us those papers? Otherwise, we'd have made more progress. That's why they're only in tender; otherwise they would be executed. Or the Ferrol Town Hall also took a year for those papers that are simple, but complicated for the municipalities. So don't come here to blame the whole board of Galicia, which is the easy one. That's the easy one, and of course it's no use. And when they have trouble expropriating and ask us for help, there we are. There we are when they want to expropriate and need our agreement. Ask the mayor of Carballo if we haven't made him a deal on the subject of flooding, so he can expropriate. And also in Cee and Corcubion. Ask Cee and look at the political color. What about the political color of these two municipalities? I think we're much more professional than other administrations on this matter as important as water. One thing is to talk, but, when it comes to playing, to see who does it. Of course, the Galician Union has €73 million to run next year, and we'll do it by helping the municipalities in their jurisdictions. The sanitation of the river Pontevedra we've seen. They're coming to teach us how to clean up! Obstructing not to build is its motto, its motto is so. Where were you at Pontede me when I was in trouble with sanitation? We don't know anything about the Coruña Deputy. Helping Betanzos or those municipalities in sanitation. Burela and Foz are on the coast. So I wonder what you guys are doing to really help in these competitions. But I'm going to give you the joy of legislating, because next week we're going to bid for the Welsh Sanitation Plan all over Galicia, with 1.7 million euros. It's not because I asked for it, but because we want to update it. [[Applause]] So I give you the joy of all the legislation so that we can understand each other and continue working together on sanitation, adapting it to climate change, sustainability and, of course, efficiency and efficiency, promoting a circular model specific to these services. I, Mr Bará, hope you're overwhelmed by all the investments we've made, I'm sure you wouldn't. I'll give you a calculator to add. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u197	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Interpellation by D. Pablo Arangüena Fernández and Da Paloma Castro Rey, from G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the policy of the Government of Galicia in relation to the impact of climate change in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u198	Mr. Aranguena has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u199	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Vázquez, even if she's not around now, I'm glad to tell you that this is about feeling overwhelmed... yes, yes, I'm sorry! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't want to get into the previous one, but I'm telling you, this is about being overwhelmed by the investments in Galician Waters, it seems like something like science fiction. Since I have something to do with you too, even if I'm not, I'm telling you. Madam Counsellor, yes, I refer to you, I will try to appeal this afternoon to your reasoning, and to your group, in a humble, almost begging manner. Because the truth is, the only thing the Socialist Group can do about this interpellation, besides asking, is asking. Because, as much as we demand from you, you have the majority and you will do as you consider. So much so, you adopted, in a resolution on last year's state of autonomy debate, to declare the climate emergency. It was a shaky, fallacious resolution, in our opinion, but it recognized at least the need to declare the climate emergency. And what a surprise to us that when the Socialist Parliamentary Group presented this initiative last month, it had not even been adopted that statement by the Union!, a year after it was agreed by this Parliament. I don't know if it's approved today, frankly. And that is why I would be grateful if you could explain it to me, because it seems to me to be unprecedented that a Parliament approves that the Board is doing something as transcendental as it is declaring the climate emergency and today it seems that it is not yet declared. Let me get this straight. We are immersed in the sixth great process of mass extinction of species that occurred in the biological history of our planet, which dates back to approximately 3,800 million years ago. There were five large mass extinctions in billions of years, and we are rightly, at this very moment, immersed in the sixth great mass extinction. And probably many of those present here do not — perhaps not — know that, unlike this current episode — in which we are directly participating as a causing species — the five previous episodes of mass extinction on earth were directly associated with climate change situations. The year 2019 was the warmest in history in Europe, and the second on the planet. And the last five years have also been the warmest in the history of our planet. And as much as the pandemic we are experiencing right now seems to us of enormous importance — there is no doubt that it has it, and much — climate change or global warming of anthropogenic origin is at present and throughout the history of our species — no doubt the greatest threat to the threat facing or facing humanity, insofar as the climate directly or indirectly determines all aspects of our lives, from food production to the energy needs of housing, water, etc. And it goes back to the rest of the planetary biophysical system, which causes the rupture of ecological balances at all levels: loss of biodiversity, fires of unusual intensity and periodicity, increasingly extreme climatic phenomena and a long et cetera. Exactly one year ago I had the opportunity to attend COP25, which was held in Madrid, and there the Secretary General of the United Nations, Antonio Guterres, at the beginning of that summit, said that humanity is consciously destroying the system that serves as our life support. And that destruction most affects the poorest but not even the rich can escape its effects: increasingly intense and frequent natural disasters, loss of crops and decreases in their yields, water wars, massive migrations, political instability and a very long and so forth. The good news is that there are ways to fight this crisis and that our country, Galicia, is well positioned to be vanguarded in this revolution — this time yes, not only in propaganda — unlike in the past. We have excellent conditions for renewable energy, knowledge and high motivation, or at least this should be to the extent that, within Europe, Spain and Galicia will be uniquely and especially affected by the climate crisis, such as coastal and climate transition zones. We are the first country in the world to have a fair transition strategy — Spain — within the framework of an ambitious integrated energy and climate plan. And we have an Ecological Transition Ministry with a high-precision team, which is part of a government that takes the problem very seriously, which is explicitly recognised by both the European Union and the United Nations. The Paris agreements of 2016 intended to limit global warming to less than 2 degrees, with the intention of further moving forward to a reduction of below 1.5 degrees. But these objectives tend to be overcome by the reality of the behaviour of countries and societies and by the progress of science. And predictions are increasingly bleak about the speed and effects of climate change, which is to question or doubt our future and become a species. We must not lose sight of the fact that climate change is in relation to and is part of the gradual collapse of ecosystems, which began to accelerate in the 20th century and is dramatically accelerating much more in the 21st century. And there are many scientists who claim that the pandemic we are suffering today is more of that global ecological imbalance. The declaration of climate emergency is an international movement which aims to assume from public institutions the reality of the grave impact of climate change, the urgency of acting against it and, consequently, the commitment to do so. Dozens of countries and cities are declaring the climate emergency. Spain declared the climate emergency early this year. Cataluña and Castile-A Mancha, Aragon, Balearic Islands, Canary Islands, the Valencian Community, the Basque Country, Asturias, Murcia, Cantabria, Extremadura, Navarre or Asturias are already in progress or have declared it largely — because it has already been declared practically all — the climate emergency. Tens of municipalities throughout the state also declared the climate emergency. Vigo was the first city in Galicia to do it. In Galicia, the difference between all the autonomous communities mentioned above was postponed, and it did not make any movement in that sense except to remove the Strategy against Climate Change from the box from 2005, from which it was remembered at the age of 15. Nothing but fifteen years without remembering that there was a strategy of climate change, a lifetime of climate change and science associated with it! And it was reworked, moved and made up in 2019, announcing the bomb and dish that Galicia would be pioneering in this matter; another of so many advertising strategies of the Greek Government, that it is customary to claim that we are leaders in I don't know that, or first in I don't know what, when reality is that we are only prominent leaders in saying that we are leaders. Instead — as I have said — Spain counts since the beginning of 2019 — although it is pioneering, since it was the first country to do so — with a just transition strategy within the framework of the integrated national energy and climate plan — I insist, the first country to have such an instrument. And the Government of Spain is making a bet determined by that ecological transition that is demonstrated by facts, because this year's budget increases nothing more and nothing less than 132%. Do you know what is the budget specifically devoted to climate change in your budget plan for the year 2021? It's 8 million euros!, eight million euros, Counsellor, to deal with the biggest problem of our species, the biggest problem for ourselves and also for our children. Therefore, Counselor, humbly, in supplication, I appeal to your survival instinct, appeal to your ethics and your reasoning. From the Socialist Group we appeal to the instinct of survival, to the reasoning of all here present, and to the love of everyone here present by their children and daughters to face in a serious and decisive way the enormous problem of climate change by making it necessary virtue and by taking care of our new green economy, by taking care of our natural spaces, by recovering our forests, by rekingling our rivers and rivers, by making all public resources available to the process of fair ecological transition, and even of a new individual and collective ethics. The time to act is not tomorrow but right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u200	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Reply by the Environmental Adviser, Territory and Housing, Ms. Ángeles Vázquez Mejuto.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Aranguena, the truth is, in an afternoon like today's, that you appeal to humility, I thank you. But being humble is also recognizing the work of others. And when the Galician Union presents a strategy like the Strategy for Climate Change, or the Strategy for Circular Economics, it's not something that takes away an advisor from a cyst, not even his cabinet, not even his team. It's just that there's a lot of professionals behind it, and there's the three universities in Wales, and among them, with a greater involvement, the University of Vigo. With which, humility is what we need politicians, and above all recognition to those who do a job so that later others can expose it and be good for all citizenship. [[Applause]] If we talk about budgets, when these are real, when they pay Galicia what they owe, then we can talk seriously. And while, when you look at the Greek budgets, your exposure -- and there you were not but one of your partners -- you'll see that the Directorate-General for Climate Change, Sustainability and Environmental Quality has 53.5 million euros. And you'll see that Sogama has 111.3 million euros. And I'm setting the example of Sogama -- some fellow ri -- because we just bought over 20,000 meters in Vilanova de Arousa, in an industrial polygon that is from SEA. [[Murmurs.]] And his partner Beatriz Sestayo came out to say that he was grateful for this institutional collaboration, I'd miss it more! So let's put everything on the table, be institutional as well. And when we say that Sogama has 119 million euros and one gives him the laugh — and he keeps giving it and he goes up the mask — man!, with a little respect we would go much better, because it is to carry out suggestions to move forward in what is the circular economy, in what is composting, to serve the municipalities and, therefore, to curb what is climate change. Having said this, Galicia goes beyond mere declarations and intentions. We have to move on to action and that's what Galicia did, move on to action. And indeed, we are in the vanguard, Mr Aranguena, in the fight against climate change, in front of other regions and in front of the Central Government. We are equipping ourselves with the necessary tools -- that's what Galicia does -- to be a reference and also to be able -- because we've already achieved it -- not a problem, but a solution. Do you know how many broadcasts Galicia brings worldwide? 0.06%. I'm saying this because we have to get in context, and it feels like Galicia is doing everything wrong and this is the big world problem. No, we bring solutions, we never bring problems. What do we intend to achieve, Mr. Aranguena? Climate neutrality in the year 2050. As it cannot be otherwise, from the German Government we are fully aware that there is climate emergency at the global level, not at the Galician level. [[Murmurs.]] And that's why we consider it a primary objective to activate the measures that are in our hands, and so we are doing it. We're going beyond mere statements, what we're doing is actions, and we've moved on to action. The movement shows itself walking, and that's what the Galician Union is doing: moving and walking to achieve neutrality. That's why we prefer to defend and bet on climate action, which, as you should know, is the most up-to-date and effective expression to define the fight against climate change. Sometimes it's just that we get ankylosed and we just relate to a sentence and, of course, if I'm already an example of the Vigo Town Hall, then we start to tremble. If you tell me we took the model of the PSOE, and that's the model of Vigo, I'll have to tell you that what the Vigo Town Hall did was to adhere to the Mayors' Pact in 2011, but it was just an accession, it was good intentions, it was to sign a document. And what is the result? Well, he didn't present his plan. What happened? That he was expelled from the Mayors' Pact for the climate. By the way, there's a total of 229 members; 170 already have their plan, but it's not Vigo's case. So we have a commitment and the facts speak for themselves. And I'm going to give you examples. The first, the approval a year ago, in December 2019, of the Welsh Strategy for Climate Change and Energy 2050. As I said earlier, it's not a document that was made from day to day, it was more than 300 professionals who participated; therefore a minimum of respect. But this brings together an integrated regional energy and climate plan 2019-2023, defining a total of 170 measures in four areas of action: mitigation, adaptation, research and awareness-raising; which involve an investment of 1,250 million euros. A strategy that, I see, you despise and that others value and recognize. You just have to take off your phone and talk to the Asturias Environmental Council, which has asked for our collaboration in preliminary work in its Climate Action Strategy. We are willing to collaborate, just as they collaborate in other actions with us. But it turns out they're still denying the most obvious. They take off the phone, summer, and boast a little bit of what Galicia and the actors that Galicia has about stopping climate change, and they're much better Iranians. Adherence of the municipalities to the Covenant of Mayors by climate and energy. As I told them earlier, they're a total of 229 municipalities, and we start from a base, which is the local base, and then raise it to the region. So we're expanding the aid to 1.5 million euros so they can have individualised advice and, therefore, they can get it forward. In 2019 we also gave light to the 2030 circular economy strategy, which marks the steps to be taken when passing a linear economy into a circular economy. Yesterday we even started processing the Waste and Contaminated Soil Law in this House, but it doesn't seem to have anything to do with it either. A text with which we advance state legislation. What you've got right now is just an articulate, but you haven't received the Council of Ministers' approval yet. Does it seem normal to you that we have to go ahead with autonomous communities, that the central government doesn't do it, and that then, so, we have to make adjustments? What we can't do is keep our arms crossed, but we have to walk, because that's what society is demanding of us. We have developed a comprehensive diagnosis based on the indicators of the 2020-2030 Agenda proposed by the UN. Among its main conclusions is already the increase in the volume of depurated waste water, as my companion Vázquez said before — I am also Vázquez, but she too. The data are crossed, and here are the conclusions, which you'll see soon. Also the positive evolution of sustainable tourism or the approval of strategies such as those I said before. We also conducted the first ecological footprint study in Galicia; an internationally sustainable indicator that allows us to recognize the impact of human activity on nature, as well as to evaluate the effectiveness of environmental policies. This study sets Galician ecological footprint at 3.35 hectares per inhabitant, half a point below the state average. But, Mr. Aranguena, we not only take action, but also acquire commitments and have results. Galicia reduced its greenhouse gas emissions in 2018. And you know how much he did? In half a million tonnes of CO2 equivalent, which is 1.7 % compared to the previous year. And why am I referring to the year 2018? Because that's why gross domestic product has grown by 2.8% and, therefore, we don't have to talk about whether there's any greater industrial activity or whether the economy's going to be better, because emissions are also better... No, no, no, no. And there you should rethink and, above all, give the message to the central government: fair ecological transition. And to talk about fair ecological transition is to talk about the efforts made by the Greek companies, hence the 2018 results compared to those of 2017. Galicia is still among the three communities that have reduced its emissions the most over the year 1990. It's almost fifteen percentage points below the level of the Spanish set. Let's go further and sink, year 2019. The 47 Korean industrial installations that participate in greenhouse gas emission rights trading issued 7.2 million tons of CO2 less than in the previous year...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u202	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u203	This is the result of a thorough work being done by the Administration, but in which others work as well as the municipalities — such as, of course, we cannot put Vigo — and also companies. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u204	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the reply, Mr. Aranguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u205	Thank you, Mr. President. Counselor, you didn't answer me. I'd appreciate it if you answered my question. You don't have to do this, you don't have to, but we're in parliament and I asked you, have you declared? Or rather, the Galician Parliament in the previous debate of the state of autonomy last year agreed to declare the climate emergency. This was more than a year ago, and so I conclude, you did not declare the climate emergency, even though it was agreed in this Parliament that it was declared; resolution — I insist — with which we did not agree because it seemed to us to be cicadas and falsifica, but it was at the request of you. You yourself have voted that climate emergency has been declared in accordance with what you yourselves considered appropriate and appropriate. So I guess a year later it wasn't done what the Galician Parliament agreed it had done. And I find it totally unusual that you don't answer me to this. Well, I'll thank you, if this is the case, as everything seems to indicate and everything points. Look, you gave me a series of data, but I think you came here to drop things at random. I mean, he's not interested in the least. I understand that the matter that you manage, the environment, doesn't interest you at least, but, of course, you come here to put a series of foreign arguments, saying I'm vanguard... but what I'm most concerned about is that some advisor to you has kicked in a scandalous way or I don't know... maybe, I don't know... you're not in numbers, it's going to be letters. I'm a mixed letter. But you said literally... I'm telling you with respect, eh! [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] I'm going to talk about numbers, I'm not going to talk about you or... You said that Galicia has or represents 0.06 percent of the world's emissions, that is, the planet Earth. 0,06 said. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] All right, tell me it's 0.06. But do you realize what that means? I mean, Galicia has 0.0038% of the population and you say it represents 0.06 of the emissions. That can't be, it's impossible. To say that would make it up to you... I don't know. You can't pollute so much, but don't let Galicia burn, set up here 25 thermal power stations... You can't do that; that is, it's nonsense to say that Galicia produces 0.06% of the emissions from the planet earth, from the world. It can't be! It can't be! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You can't be, Counselor! I insist, you talk to your advisors or you check your numerical capacity, because something fails here. You're throwing stones at your roof, I'm helping her. [[Applause]] I mean, it can't be. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So, Counsellor, incredibly, eleven years later, we are still far, far away, from the 295 million euros of budget from 2009, rising to 2021 to 199 million euros; 295 million in the last budget of the Bipartite, 199 million in this budget, which is the most expansive in history and which, in addition, is associated with the State budget, which, as I told you, increases by 132%, and to European funds, which grow in an enormous and very significant way. So in an exceptionally exceptional year, when more European funding can be spent than ever and more state funding, with an expanding budget and when in the general budget of the State grows by about 49%, that of Miteco grows by 132%, 2.5 times more. I mean, you don't even use this time to make a bet decided by the environment. And in that sense, I have to tell you that you are negationists. Beyond strategies and statements, that the role bears everything, in practice you're just as negationistic as Mr. Rajoy when he said that he had a cousin who told him that climate change wasn't for so long. Because until a year ago, climate change didn't matter, they didn't care, they didn't care, they didn't care at all. And a year ago -- I insist -- you pulled out of the drawer the Welsh Strategy on Climate Change and moved it, but it's been in that drawer since 2005. Fifteen years in the field of climate change in which science, in which knowledge of climate change and the impact of climate change itself have increased, would almost say exponentially. Just at the end of last year, at the height of the information on climate change associated with the COP25 celebration, you pulled that out to say, as you said today -- which is a firing statement, as fired as the figure you gave -- that you are a vanguard in the fight against climate change. You can't say these things! I asked a companion of his this morning to stop counting. What you're doing is not environmental policy, it's greenwashing policy, an environmental washing policy. But they don't do anything else, they don't even have plans for the use and management of natural parks. The Natural Parque das Fragas do Eume has been in its 20s and so many years without a master plan of uses and management, and so on. And with the most expansive budget in history...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u206	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u207	...they're not able to make you a bet on climate change. Please tell me that the climate emergency has been declared, as has been agreed in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u208	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the closure of the inquiry, the Environmental, Territorial and Living Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u209	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Aranguena, the word humility knows it exists, but you put yourself here and the truth is that you totally forget it. It's quite predictable and it's true that little progress has been made. Let's focus on Mr. Mariano Rajoy. I'm proud that you bring him out here in public light because often you have to hide those who are part of your group, even those who are now with you. And little progress is made; that is, they are left behind, indeed, and prevention must be done, but there is a lack of humility. That said, the examples you can give are the minimums. Someone reminded me of the wagons that were thrown into the Sil River. We had to apologize for pulling those wagons, but, far from asking for forgiveness, the Ministry said to relax and, then, it was Adif and it wasn't Adif, that were the others... well, in the end, what had to be done is to bring it out to the public light because, if not, they would continue the wagons, and it seems that this is not the first time this happens. Having said this, what we do, Mr. Aranguena, is measure, we put tangible measures, we make comparisons, we expose numbers, and from there there there is a reality; reality that, of course, what you do is close your eyes and once and a thousand times insult those who come forward with a strategy like that of climate change. They don't care if they go to college. They're capable of insulting technicians. They just say it's four papers or a floppy disk that's on a computer without more. No, let's go a lot further, Mr. Aranguena. [[Murmurs.]] You insist on immobilism once and a thousand times on the part of the Galician Union in terms of climate change, and I remind you that as much as you repeat a lie that will never become true. I know you don't like me telling you that Galicia is in the vanguard of the broadcasts, that measures are being taken to fight this phenomenon. I know you don't like to hear that the Central Government's Climate Change Strategy is 2007! and it's 2020. You haven't seen the light yet of the new Central Government Climate Change Strategy. Every autonomous community we're doing our own, and they come here to teach us lessons, what choices? [[Applause]] Presumably, Mr. Aranguena, you can assume the quality of air in Galicia, it's measured, it's compared and it's tangible. You also assume the excellence of our waters; they're also measured, as well as then put small examples of things that happen in the territory as well. Suppose it's Galicia one of the three regions in which we have a weather observatory, and that's what we're talking about predictions, but not just predictions, but also studies. You have Catalonia, you have the Basque Country and you have Galicia, why don't you ever talk about them? And thanks to that, we have strategies, and thanks to that, we move on to action. [[Applause]] Spain declared the climate emergency, but I remind you how it was, just to let you know. In January of this year, the Council of Ministers approved the Declaration Agreement before the climate and environmental emergency in Spain, something that was not requested by the ecological organizations, since it is not the same thing to make a statement before the emergency to declare Spain urgently, which was what they had to do, and it turns out that they did not do so. [[Murmurs.]] They take their hands to their heads, and that's how they do it, one after the other. Beyond this nuance, that statement was due to the Central Government. Better, look what those results are, I won't take your colors off, do it directly. I don't know what happens in the rest, but results are, for example, cars that end up in the rivers. That's how it acts from the central government. The facts speak for themselves and are easily comparable, but you don't want to admit that Galicia goes forward in other areas like the Waste and Contaminated Land Law. They don't make any kind of contributions, they just say: amend to the whole, they're returning. They don't participate. You take part, you are part of it, I'm sure society will thank you more than being here over time and, after all, with very little humility to say that nothing is done at all. So we've been working for a decade to meet European demands, and we're even going much beyond what we're being demanded. I'll give you a summary. In 2010, the Galician Urban Waste Management Plan was approved. The results are there. In 2016 we gave green light to Galicia's Industrial Waste Plan - their results have just come out -. In 2019, we approved the Welsh strategy of circular economy and brought forward the Strategy of Climate Change and Energy - 170 measures -; we did the first study of Galicia's ecological footprint; we worked on meeting the objectives...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u210	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u211	...of sustainable development 2020-2030; we design the future Law of waste and soil contaminants; we promote the Mayors' Pact; we present an budget of 53.5 million euros for the General Directorate of Environmental Quality, Sustainability and Climate Change; it will have Sogama of 111.3 million euros for the next exercise; and we allocate 1.2 million euros for...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u212	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u213	...continue eliminating uncontrolled greens and EUR 2.3 million for municipal waste actions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u214	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u215	Having said this, I don't think I have to explain it anymore. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u216	Thank you. That's good enough. That's enough for today. Thank you. We move on to the seventh item on the agenda, questions to the Government. Question by Mr Martín Fernández Prado and six other Members of the People's Party of Galicia on the views of the Government of Greece on the support the Central Government is providing to the Mediterranean corridor of goods to the detriment of the Atlantic corridor
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u217	Mr. Fernández Prado, any time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u218	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Good afternoon, Counselor. We spoke again today -- we had yesterday a non-law proposal from BNG about this -- from the Atlantic freight corridor. That two groups bring initiatives to this plenary about this, I think it is evident from the concern that exists in this House, which is also a reflection of what exists in Galicia and, in general, in society about the commitment of the Government of Spain, the Socialist Government, to the north-west branch of the Atlantic corridor. From the People's Group we hear with perplexity and great concern the statements made by the Minister of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda in various forums expressing the central government's firm and determined commitment to the Mediterranean corridor, but not very quietly on the Atlantic corridor, and not even to try to conceal it. Despite the fact that in the act of putting in service of the AVE Zamora-Pedralba the minister said that he would deal with the two runners with the same intensity, we see that the matches collected in the general state budgets by 2021 show that this fairness is not being met and we see that, in addition, far from being comparable, much less sound still in the attention of the Greek corridor, the yellow branch and the improvement of infrastructure, as we spoke yesterday. This, in addition, despite the fact that they know the enormous interest of the Galician Union, the Government of Greece, on behalf of all the Greeks, and the rest of the communities in the north-west of Spain, who want and agree - even though they are of different political colors - in the joint modernisation of the railway network of commodities. I want to remember that a meeting we had in 2017, where we were representatives of the three autonomous communities, the three governments and all the social agents of the three autonomous communities, was that a key point of inflection to advance in this recognition of the northwest corridor and the importance of this investment not only for the Greeks, but for the rest of the citizens of the northwest, this necessary improvement of the competitiveness of the northwest axis, the Atlantic axis, the Atlantic corridor. Since 2018 all investments in Galicia have been stopped. Yesterday we knew that the Government announced that the works of Lugo-Monforte were to be auctioned, which were in the 2018 budgets, in Mariano Rajoy's budget - by the way, that request of 2017 was also with the Government of Mariano Rajoy - who responded and therefore put it into the 2018 budgets. But, look, unfortunately, and as BNG well said, those 2018 budgets will no longer be in force...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u219	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u220	...and they're much worse than the Party's budgets...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u221	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u222	Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u223	Answer by the Infrastructure & Mobility Advisor, Ms. Ethel Vázquez Mourelle.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u224	Thank you, President. Your Honor, we have had the opportunity to address in this House the negative state budgets in Galicia for the year 2021, and also in this context we have to place the treatment given by the Government of Spain to the Atlantic freight corridor. Of course, the Government of Spain ignores the potentialities of Galicia, the interest; we see a clear lack of interest in improving competitiveness and in promoting economic development in our community, and it is not due to lack of insistence on this Government nor to maintaining, of course, constructive, dialogueative and proactive action, because we spare no effort and we will, of course, not spare any effort, remain active. I will do so until the Government of Spain hears and shows receptiveness once and for all to our demands. Because it's not a Galician demand, it's a demand for three autonomous communities, which we've made an alliance and which we've been on this road for a long time. We heard our voice, and those images of the year 2017, when Mariano Rajoy ruled. An alliance of three autonomous communities joined by economic agents and other port authorities. We are many of us who want to make the Atlantic corridor a progress tool in Galicia. And for months we insist, we insist on active and passive, because, of course, it is vital to access these funds not only from the Connect Europe mechanism, but from the Next Generation funds. A unique opportunity that is letting the Government of Spain escape by ignoring Galicia. We have long asked for a clear, comprehensive and detailed planning to implement the important actions and to meet the requirements set by the European Union in order to access those funds from the Connect Europe mechanism for this end from Galicia-Asturias-Castela-Leon, as I said, by adding effort. We request the appointment of a commissioner to be created. Nothing, it's all long. Commissioner does exist in the Mediterranean corridor, but they don't want it in the Atlantic. Disinterest, of course, is more than obvious, and we want to continue to add to our efforts. We ask for a greater balance on the part of the Central Government that not only the Mediterranean but also the Atlantic. Look, there's no management plan, and the advisor doesn't say it, it's what the Atlantic Axis says, that it engulfs the municipalities of Galicia and the municipalities of northern Portugal. There's no plan, there's a power point with lots of eves, and there's no provision for the southern exit, no improvement in Portugal's connection, neither the bypass of Monforte, nor the Manzanal's, and they're fundamental and priority. Perhaps Mr. Abalos thought that since Galicia hasn't arrived yet, we don't know what's said in Valencia and Madrid, but we know it and we hear it because the Greeks are not stupid.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u225	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u226	Replica, Mr. Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u227	Thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor, for your answer and appreciation. We will have to continue to press from all institutions, with all civil society associations, so that the Socialist Government and of Podemos will listen to Galicia's unanimous demands and stop discriminating with Galicians. He has already done so in the state's general budgets and has rejected the amendments that this group has tabled in Madrid. The only thing we ask is that you do not do it for the third time and that you finance the European funds from the Connect Europe Facility, the Reconstruction Fund, which you have to ask for from the Government, these infrastructures and that you do not miss Galicia for the third time. I hope that I will apologize to the Counsellor and the Presidency if I take this last minute of my speech - whether it is possibly my last speech in this Parliament - to thank you. First, to my group, to the party and also to the employees of the group for their generosity and affection; they always had it with me and always gave me much more than I deserved. But also to the opposition groups, with whom, despite the differences, which motivated many times that we had given ourselves - as the president says - we fit it with deportivity and I believe that with respect and mutual recognition, and, as a result of that work, we agree on important issues - the last yesterday -. If I've ever been wrong, I hope you forgive me, I'm sure they've been many times, but you can be sure that it was in the spirit of correctness. I cannot help but thank the Presidency, the Bureau and all the staff of Parliament, who have also been patient with me, especially the lawyers - I am seeing the lawyer - who I have worked closely with, for the infinite patience and help that I have always had on their side, and also all the staff of Parliament. It has been an honour for me to be a Member, to be part of this institution and to collaborate on matters of importance to those concerned here. I think we have to make an effort to make people know better what Parliament does, because I think it's a great job. I put on a little big sand, and all I can wish for is that they have many successes, because the successes of Parliament will be the successes of Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u228	Well, I don't know if there'll be a replica. But, in any case, you have a shift, counselor, to close this question. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u229	In any case, I believe that yes, that the Atlantic corridor deserves a replica, a little shorter perhaps, but we do not ask for anything to be a whim, but we ask for balance by the Government of Spain, given an equitable distribution of investments, because Galicia's future depends on the investments of the present, and the future of the port of Langosteira, the future of the port of Vigo too, the competitiveness of the whole South of Vigo and the connections to the Euroregion is at stake. So we're talking about strategic performances. And it's not an exclusive demand from Galicia, it's a demand from Asturias, Castile and León, the Atlantic axis, all business agents, port authorities and political parties. So it's an already historic claim, because it's already been very reinforced in 2017 -- I insist -- when Mariano Rajoy ruled. And we did, we asked for it -- even if some people wanted to hide it -- along with all the economic and political agents. We want a joint vision, and that's why we just agreed with the Atlantic Axis that executive commission, and we want to strengthen that alliance and join efforts. We hope you join the Fegamp as well. It is a defense in which the Government of Portugal is also committed - we have seen it recently -. His minister gives priority — in Portugal — to the Lisbon-O Porto-Vigo Atlantic connection. It's our way of proceeding, summating efforts, bringing together all interests and, of course, asking and doing. Because so we did with the southern exit, and so we pushed the logistics strategy together with Galicia, Asturias and Castile and León, to add and contribute to that non-existent director plan, but at least they're going to have our information so that they have a master plan and there are no excuses. I wish we'd been summoned to a meeting. We see that there's no money for the railway connection and there's no money for the southern exit, but we're asking for an equitable distribution and that the gap is not widened. I take advantage of the last minute, without extending much more, to thank the honourable Member, Martín Fernández Prado, all the work done, which has been very much, and to wish him very much luck in this way, in which he will have the collaboration and the tender hand of the Council of Galicia. I'm sure, because of your ability to understand, to work together and to approach positions, you'll be a good president, a great president of the Harbour Authority of the Crown. Of course, I want to thank you for all these years in the Galician Parliament, for my part and for the German Government. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u230	Thank you, Counselor. Question from Da Oolaia Rodil Fernández, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the forecasts of the Galician Union regarding the call for post-Doubt aid corresponding to the year 2020
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u231	You have the floor to Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u232	Thank you, President. If I may, I shall say, indeed, Mr. Fernández Prado, from the ideological distance, which I must also acknowledge to you that we have always been able to debate in this House from this respect, from education, and very humorous, in addition, the times that you and I have been touched by. That's good to put it on the table today. We wish you every success, I say, from the staff. And now, going to a question that we have discussed, precisely, Mr. Fernández Prado and I - good afternoon, Counsellor - I will tell you that today since the BNG we have asked you about the call for post-doctoral contracts for 2020, because the publication of this call, Mr. Rodríguez, today depends on the future of 37 people who finish their contract of modality This month of December, but also on the future of doctors and doctors, who cannot continue in Galicia with their training and research if they don't come together. And it's done that there's a little less, or a little more, 20 days left to finish the year. I'll be very clear. What we're asking you from BNG is that immediately, urgently and without losing a single minute, you call the postdoctorals and sign contracts with these 37 people, so that in the time when that call is processed, they don't get fired. Because this country cannot afford to lose more talent, lose more knowledge, or lose more personal investigators. We can't afford the 37 people of the modality to see their career, their research, nor can so many others start their career this year. From time to time, we heard the People's Party and the Galician Union say, talk a lot about what they have to make a determined bet in science, research and knowledge. What we ask you today is not words, but facts, exactly on that line. It can't be said in the morning that without science there is no future and in the afternoon to deny, precisely, that future to 37 people, leave them thrown away, pushing them to choose between working free or emigration, if they want to continue researching. [[Applause]] In fact, without science, there is no future, but also, without decent working conditions, there is no research. At the BNG we are very critical of the policy of the Galician Union and also of the People's Party for the little investment, for the destruction of the programs that advanced in the definition of a research career with the Incite Plan, and also for the design of summons like this, which I shall recognize to them -- Mr. Fernández Prado said many times -- that they were unique. Indeed, they are unique in giving trouble, generating insecurity and even expelling human capital, after investing a lot of public funds in their formation. I insist, call the postdoctoral because, being a bad program, so far it's the only thing we have in Galicia to be able to investigate after depositing the thesis. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u233	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[Applause]] Reply by the Councillor for Culture, Education and University, Mr. Román Rodríguez González.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u234	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I would like to congratulate the BNG, frankly, for his great ability to turn things around. It's really a surprising capacity. It's also called manipulation, because, coming here and saying without any noise that the research career in Galicia is terrible, expels people, it's bad, etc., etc.... I'd ask you or tell you to look at what is done in other autonomous communities and compares. [[Laughter]] Look, we have in Galicia a system of predoctoral and postdoctoral with a mode A, which is the one you put on the table, and with a mode B, which is not the same, and in the middle there is an evaluation and an accountability. It's a program, a project, which has to be evaluated, and then there's a talent retention program. We are of the very few autonomous communities in Spain that have such a powerful research program, with around 500 people that we have funded throughout the research career, from predoc to postdoc, in both modalities, and also in retention of talent. And, of course, you say only one part, so I congratulate you, by saying only one part and stay so wide. You know that modality A is 2 plus 1, two years in the foreign and another year abroad, and you know -- because I'm sure they told you -- that there was an automatic extension during the pandemic so that all researchers in the system would extend their contracts -- which ended about in the spring -- until December 31st, because, if not, it was very difficult or practically impossible in those conditions to implement and develop research tasks and, of course, go to foreign research centers, which were closed and could not be done. So I say there's a certain way to play with the information that obviously doesn't fit. And I can tell you with all clarity that the postdoc A and B contracts have specific, determined characteristics, they all know and are made about projects. And there is no direct linkage, there is an intermediate evaluation, which is the one that can promote and enhance the excellence of research activity. This is what makes it possible that year after year they can be trained and that opportunities can be given to different researchers, both 2 plus 1, in training abroad for two years, in a foreign research center, and elsewhere in Galicia, as later, and after an evaluation and a new call, with different projects, a second. With which, I think, Your Honor, that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u235	Thank you, Counselor. You've got another shift later. [[The Councillor for Culture, Education and University pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Thank you, you have another shift later. That's it, thank you. [[Applause]] Replica, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u236	I, Mr. Rodríguez, have to tell you that I don't know what you came to talk about here not to talk about whether or not you're going to call the postdoctorals of 2020 before the end of the year and whether you're going to let 37 people who are pending call these new modalities B, which are connected, as you know perfectly - and try to take us all here for idiots, but not - ; i.e. if you're going to ensure that those people who have to make the transit and evaluation of the mode A to modality B can do it, because there are people who are about, a little over 20 days, to stay in the streets. [[Applause]] You actually extended those contracts for six months, and at that point what they were told was that, as soon as possible and the health situation allowed, the 2020 contracts would be convened so that they would not remain in ostracism. I can tell you it's one thing. The coward has created a lot of problems, perhaps the biggest ones we've lived for over a hundred years in our country, but the bug doesn't even cover up the incompetence and inability of governments. Because you can't hide behind the vault, and I'll set examples of very few suspicious entities. [[Applause]] The European Commission has called on the Marie Curie, who also have this stay abroad as part of the training of those post-Doubts, and the Basque Government has also launched its summons. I'll tell you something. We'll talk long and hard -- I think today we don't have time -- about whether Galicia is an example or not of research programs, research career; I'm telling you no, and the data goes wrong. A country that invests less than 1% of gross domestic product in science is not an example of anything at all. Mr. Rodríguez, will you call or not? Are you going to make those bridge contracts, yes or no? What's going to happen to those 37 people and the postdoctoral summons this year?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u237	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. To close the question, the Councillor for Culture, Education and University.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u238	Mrs. Rodil, if you're angry, you won't be right. You won't be right to be angry. [[Murmurs.]] Look, I think I've explained it very clearly, and what happens is that you don't want to understand it. Mode A is 2 plus 1, and against a project, and Mode B is another two years. [[Murmurs.]] You're part of a guess that's not true. [[Laughter]] They're not connected; that's their absolute mistake. [[Mrs. Rodil Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] And you and these people can be absolutely sure that at the beginning of the year 2021 no one will be summoned, but no doubt! when the budget is approved. You should value the effort you make and made this autonomous community -- around five million euros -- which I assumed automatically renewing the pre- or post-doctoral contract to nearly 500 researchers. Obviously, you don't care, you're left with a part of the story, and you don't remember that we're talking about that, at the end of a contract, you have to evaluate it and that it's not automatic the second contract, but that it's very competitive contracts, which are tremendously oriented to promote surpluses and are based on projects. And what you say about "bridge contract" is a different call that has to pass an assessment. It does not exist in this model, in others it may be, but in this model there is no such link you say. There's a summons, Mrs. Rodil, different; one thing is a summons for a priest and another thing is for a postdoc, and within the postdoc there are two different summons. You say they're not different. [[Mrs. Rodil Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] Well, then, we'll all be wrong and you'll be right. That's why I congratulated her nothing more than to begin my intervention, because, really, the way she's going to try to turn things around is unheard of. You may be calm and absolutely certain that there will be a call to give security and certainty, and it will be done when you can do it, because for a long time it was closed the possibility of bringing out foreign people, of going to foreign research centers, because they were closed and there was no mobility. And that will undoubtedly enable contracts, as they are proposed, to be called with the new budget. But you will understand that if we extend nearly six months more than 500 contracts to make it easier to comply with the commitments and projects set out in the calls, you have to wait until these projects are completed to start the new calls with new budgets. From there on, you can give him the rounds you want, but, in any case, we guarantee...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u239	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u240	...that in the first months, in the first weeks of the year 2021, there will be the summons, no doubt. And Galicia keeps...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u241	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u242	...in the field of university research, a tremendously relevant role. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u243	Let's go with the next question. Question by Da Paula Prado del Río and seven other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the main results and conclusions of the macroeconomic survey carried out by the Galician Union in relation to the perception of Welsh citizenship regarding gender violence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u244	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u245	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Counsellor, gender violence is the most cruel expression of inequality. In our society we still have countless cases of gender-based violence; some — most of them — are denounced, but still many who are hidden, who are at home, who are under the fear of the women who suffer them. It is a responsibility of everyone and all, of all administrations, of all political representatives, to continue working every day - not only on November 25, but on the 365 days of the year - so that every day any woman who is subjected to gender violence denounces, so that every day society has more sensitivity to this matter and, if known, also denounces, so that every day the professionals who work in health care, in the bodies and security forces of the state, in the courts or in the lawyer also have more sensitivity with this matter, more training and every day can work better, prevent gender violence and get many women from that horrifying circle in which they live. And to design and implement effective measures it is important to know the reality of the country. In this sense, in this House, in the past legislation, all groups have reached important agreements, and one of them was that the Galician Union had made a macroeconomic survey to identify and determine the reality of the country in this sense and to be able to take effective measures in the same line of results as this macroeconomic survey had brought to us. And in that field of the macro-enquisition that we had to draw up the Council of Galicia what we wanted was that the Union had a fixed picture of our country's reality to, on the one hand, continue to bet on those measures that are effective and that are moving forward in the fight against gender violence; and to supply the evas in those areas where measures needed to be incorporated or expanded. So I think that in this sense it is important to know the results of this macro-enquisition so that the Board works on that line. But we also feel very good about this data to Parliament, Counselor, because we have a work of the previous legislation to achieve a Greek Covenant against Gender Violence. It's a challenge we're proposing for this one and I think from January we can start. So we want to know what are the main results and conclusions that the macro-enquisition on gender violence developed by the Galician Union. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u246	Thank you, Mrs. Prado del Río. To answer the question, you have the word of the Employment and Equality Counsellor, Mrs. Lorenzana Somoza.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u247	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon. First of all, and taking into account the background of the question, I would like to recall the memory of the three women victims of gender violence who died this year in our community: Soledad Rey, Manuela Iglesias and Clara Maria Exposto. And also, of course, their families. As you well said, Mrs. Prado, the institutions and, of course, the Galician Union are not going and we cannot spare any effort to eliminate this scourge which is gender-based violence. I try to detail the results of the macroeconomic survey, which is actually one of the very useful tools that the Administration has - the effects - and, on the one hand, to evaluate those measures that we are taking and that we have to extend for their positive results, but also those that we have to modify, that we have to innovate, that we have to modulate to work in those areas that are needed. A macro-inquisition was already made in 2005 and 2012 but it is important to note that this year 2020 is much more extensive than the area of respondents. Indeed, 3,874 people living in Galicia, always 18 or more years old, were surveyed, with which, the sample size increased by 287%, because in 2012 there were 1,001 people surveyed. The population distribution of these people was 2,156 women and 1,717 men, of which 58.4% of the people surveyed reside in rural areas and 41.6% live in urban areas. Of the results of the survey, especially by comparing them with those of the year 2012, it is very important to note that Galician society is particularly aware of the problem of gender violence. Eighty percent of the respondents consider it a social problem, 10 points more than in 2012. This percentage also has a hopeful demographic hue that increases to 97.4% in people between the ages of 18 and 29. Citizens consider 88.3% that gender-based violence can be eradicated, 56.9% that is avoidable by a global change in values, and 31.4% that can be avoided by better protection and prevention. 85.2 percent of the population, that is, 5 out of every 6 people, claims that if you knew any cases of gender violence, you would report it. With regard to the assessment of measures directed at the protection of the victim and the eradication of violence against women, it is worth noting that 93% of the citizenry considers the main measure from an institutional perspective that increases resources; from a civic and social perspective, that families educate children equally; and that women report as soon as possible. The most well-known resources of the Autonomic Administration are the shelters for battered women, with 82% of knowledge; it follows psychological support for women, with about 74%;277 and support for work insertion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u248	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u249	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u250	Thank you. Mrs. Prado del Río has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u251	Thank you, Madam President. Counselor, I want to say hello to the data you just exposed to us. On the one hand, the increase of the people surveyed, 287% — you said — from 1.001 in 2012 to 3,874, gives us a much broader view of what the situation is. You also said that more than half of the people who participated in this survey lived in rural areas, which is also very important, very interesting, in order to implement measures in this area, because for us it is a concern, because rural women have different specificities than urban women and for them different measures have to be taken. And we think he's throwing up important data, as it's that Galician society is particularly aware of gender-based violence. You said you've increased by 10% the number of people who think this is a social problem, and this is a symptom that things are doing well, that awareness campaigns are reaching people. That's why it seems important to us, because the German Government has been working in this direction for ten years, and this data is evaluating the good done and the good management of the People's Party Government. You also talked about an increase, especially in younger people, of 97.4%, and that 5 out of 6 people say they consider that, if they knew one case, they would report it; the goal is to reach 6 out of 6. The most important fact that you tell us is that everything is in education on equal terms, indeed, and we must start with the political representatives, by making an important commitment to equality, by eliminating the micromachisms from this House, the macho tics that we are watching lately. We believe it is important that, as public representatives, we must set an example for citizenship. What evaluation do you and the Galician Union make of this data for future action? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u252	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. To close this question, the Employment and Equality Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u253	Thank you, President. Indeed, the macroeconomic survey shows points, as you have reflected: that 80% of the respondents already recognize gender-based violence as a problem in this society because it implies that awareness-raising measures and that the information measures being carried out are bearing fruit. But we must not forget that there is data as well and that the valuation that the Galician Union draws leads us to where we have to steer our policies and that there are still certain stereotypes, certain false beliefs, that we have to eliminate from society. For example, in this line it is highlighted that the main factors that cause gender violence are the psychological or mental problems of the aggressors - so it considers it 88% -; the Machism or sexism of society - 87% -; and even the abuse of alcohol or drug use by the aggressor - 86,986.9% -. What does that mean? That the philosophy of our work must continue, of course, but it must continue to try to eliminate these kinds of ideas and these types of stereotypes. We will continue to work on the two lines we are doing: on the one hand, from the perspective of information and, above all, from the training of children and the training of children, from the awareness of youth from school, from the universities; but, of course, also — and as it cannot be otherwise — by increasing and maintaining the Greek Network of resources from reception centres, the Psychological Support Programme for Victims and the other programs we have in collaboration, many of them, with local authorities. This is demonstrated by this year 2020 as Junta has reinforced the attention of the victims of gender-based violence to the situation of the health emergency covered-19, precisely to anticipate any negative developments in relation to gender-based violence. That is to say, with this data in hand, I think it can be summed up, in some way, that we are on the right path but we have to keep moving forward in public policies aimed at the whole of the population of Galicia, with clear messages of awareness and awareness—which show that they are producing results—but we must focus on prevention to dismantle the roles, ideas and stereotypes that are still very rooted in gender violence. Women who suffer this kind of violence in our community must know and be clear that they are not alone, that there are a number of public resources that are there and that can help them get out of the situation they are in. Nothing else on my part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u254	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Ana Pontón Mondelo and eighteen other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the reasons of Ourense's health management to initiate a disciplinary file to a professional at the Hospital de Verín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u255	You have the word "Noa Presas" from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u256	Counsellor, with this file the truth is that we have seen how Mr Feijóo and his hijackings — among whom you are — really have overcome themselves. They're so drunk with absolute majority that they're already installed in political absolutism. [[Murmurs.]] If they don't like to hear it, they have to hold on. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Look, we're talking about serious facts that we could know about because the Journal of the Thames brought them to light. And they really deserve an explanation in this House. Because, look, you, with Verín, couldn't bear to be right, ethically or scientifically. They couldn't bear to give their arm to twist and they couldn't close that delivery room in Verín. They couldn't stand Verín becoming the capital of dignity, the capital of the defence of public health, and also the capital of the right we women have to be mothers near our homes regardless of where we live. [[Applause]] They had to adjust. And, unfortunately, in the absence of explanations on this issue, in the light of the facts we're seeing and the documents that are being brought to light, the only conclusion that can be reached is that you have calculatedly waited for the elections to pass to continue with this offensive, Counselor. Today you have to explain here what Mr. Feijóo didn't explain in the morning, who spoke of twisting, manipulating and lying. He failed to say that this is what he does, because he said that there was no disciplinary file — and there was— or said that the complaint was from a pediatrician — and the report that motivates this file is signed by Mr. Rubal. Mr. Rubal is a political officer, just like you. They are political positions within the health structure of this country appointed by Mr Feijóo. So they don't appear in technical criteria, they don't appear in professionals, because this decision is signed by a political leader. That's what leads us to think it's a political instruction. They have to explain why Galician Union is so worried about an occasional disagreement among professionals and they worry so little about other serious facts that we know of this situation and others, such as those attempts at separation or forced separations of mothers and babies in the time they tried to close the Verin delivery room. It is really regrettable that we are not worried about these kinds of issues and that we see this which seems to be a political hunt. I think today he owes us an explanation, which he was unable to give to the president of Galician Union in the morning. I think Verín also deserves an apology and I think this country deserves a correction. Stop acting like Torquemada. They rectify, explain this situation and assume that they lost in Verín, because they had no reason either from an ethical or scientific point of view. They assume that rectification was correct and that Verín is no longer afraid.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u257	Thank you, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u258	He's not afraid and this isn't gonna work...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u259	Thank you. Your time is up. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u260	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Before I begin with the answer, I want to correct two inaccuracies in the formulation of the question itself, beyond the term "sequeak". They tell you what the reason is that Ourense's health management allegedly took part, months after a seemingly harmless event, a file for a professional at the Verín hospital. Well, first of all, Ourense's health management doesn't fit the file. The proposed initiation is made by the Ourense Health Inspectorate and, subsequently, by the Assistant General Health Inspectorate. I mean, this file didn't happen, at any point in its proceedings, to the board of Ourense's health management or to the board of the health adviser or to the board of the president of the board. Secondly, the event that gives rise to the file may seem harmless to you, but perhaps it is not so much for the professional who denounces it. Of course, I don't feel with the authority enough to doubt this woman's complaint. If you want to, it's your problem. Having said that, the only participation of the Ourense administration in this matter is to avoid interfering with it. When a pediatrician makes a complaint about a partner's behavior before the management, both the manager and the chief of staff decide that they don't fit in with that dispute. They recommend that this act be directed by the most independent channel possible, which is that of the Health Inspectorate. Of course, Your Honor, in the field of administration these things are done in writing. That's what the manager and the head of the pediatrician are advised to do in writing. The Ourense Health Inspectorate makes confidential information and proposes initiation. And now the file has passed to the instruction phase, which corresponds to a professional in a different area. At this stage the dossier can be called to appear — as you have already done — and to demand the practice of evidence — the principle of contradiction. And by the way, he can also access the file only, and see it. After the instruction is completed, the file may be archived or converted into a job nail. Against him, the defendant might also argue. After that, there would be a final proposal on which I could also argue again. So, as far as the Union is concerned, this professional is absolutely innocent, and he will continue to be sealed unless the file is settled in the opposite direction. That's why they won't listen either to the president of the board or to me or to the counselor of Germany or to the manager of the area say no one word about this professional, because we respect the guarantees and respect the procedures. Political pressure — as you call it — would have been pronounced on this file trying to influence the instruction. We didn't, you're doing it. A reprisal would publicly insult this professional while he is subject to an absolutely guaranteed process, which will be what determines his responsibility. [[Applause]] That's not our style. You now have an opportunity to rectify. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u261	Thank you, Counselor. Mrs. Presas's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u262	Well, look, Mr. Comsaña, we're not going to rectify our exercise of political responsibility to find out what's going on in this case and to make sure they're not using this to send a message to the professionals in our rural health care about who's moving is getting consequences. This smells like it, Mr. Comesaña. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] Of course, you come here with a series of information — which I imagine has moved Mr Rubal orally — that we have to believe in blind faith. We are guided by written information that comes out in the press and that attests to alleged documents that are real. If they are not real, they send to this Parliament all the documentation, covering personal data, or bring people to this Parliament and whether they know what happens or not. Because this is what says this isn't a complaint from a pediatrician on his own initiative. [[Murmurs.]] What appears here is that this has been recommended, as you say — that is interpretable — by Mr. EOXI of Ourense, who is Mr. Rubal. [[Mrs. Presas Berganginos is showing a document.]] And you don't explain here either why it took us ten months to see the development of these kinds of issues. And it doesn't explain here why there are apparently no issues to be taken into account like the testimony of the nursing staff, who has a different version of the facts. Indeed, we are cautious in the formulation of our questions. But what is not prudent is that you come here with accusations that we allegedly do not take the public health personnel seriously, when those who are not doing this are you, those who are not being transparent with this issue — that the self-involved complaint as a political persecution — are you. Our responsibility is that this matter doesn't go unnoticed or glorified, that it has a public explanation, that it has a rectification and that it doesn't commit any more harassment against the people of Verín. Because your former occupant of the office said very similar issues when we came to bring to this Parliament the impoverishment of pediatric care in the province of Ourense...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u263	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. You've finished your shift. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Thank you. Your time is up. That's right. [[Applause]] Close the question. Mr. Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u264	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I really don't know what part of the procedure is not understood. I'm glad you know there was an incident between the pediatrician and the gynaecologist. You just removed part of the file — which, by the way, only the gynecologist has access to. No, I don't. I didn't see that file. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, but whoever has access is the gynaecologist. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] And you just taught a part of the document that says that the pediatrician, when he gets to the head of service and the health care manager — which is, by the way, called Rubial — is told that if he has something to say about the gynaecologist, what he has to do — as is done in the administration — is write it down. That's what makes that document that you just taught and that I've seen in the newspaper as well, but only in the paper, I haven't seen it anywhere else. I repeat, I'll do the first part of my answer again. This is a guaranteed process, which gives all guarantees, in this case, to the gynecologist, which also gives all guarantees to the pediatrician and in which, of course, if you heard and will hear again — if necessary — the nurses of the parent in order to give their version; and in which an independent person, in this case, a medical inspector, will pronounce himself. On that statement, the gynaecologist will have the opportunity to argue. And when this inspector makes a motion for a resolution, the gynecologist will again be able to argue. What else do you want? What more guarantees do you want from the process? You want me to tell you why you did this? I repeat, you just showed it yourself: the pediatrician reflects a conflict with a gynecologist and, as the president said this morning, there are twenty similar processes right now. What's the matter, do we do the same thing with the 20s? What are you asking me? Are you asking me not to continue this process? Are you asking me to hide it under the table? Is that what you're asking me? The inspector will finish his process and, I repeat, against this initial proposal of the inspector, the gynecologist may still claim what he deems appropriate. I don't think there's any more. If you want to stretch this as they've been doing for a long time, that's your decision. Of course, we're going to be respectful of the gynecologist, the pediatrician and the medical inspector. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u265	Thank you, Counselor. Question by José Alberto Pazos Couñago and six other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, about the valuation made by the Government of Galicia from the beginning of the course marked by the covid-19 in the children's schools of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u266	Mrs Elena Suárez Sarmiento of the People's Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u267	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Counsellor, as we all know, in September children's schools were reopened in Galicia after six months of forced closure by the pandemic. This reopening was done in a programmed manner, as usual, but this year with a special involvement of the Government of Galician Union in order to adapt educational centres to the new situation created by the coward-19, since a strict security protocol had to be drafted to protect the educational community from possible infections of the disease. The beginning of the course meant a reasonable concern in the pupils' families of the children's schools in Galicia, but since the Government of the Union it has been considered essential to restart the educational activity on the usual dates. So President Feijóo was able to transmit the necessary confidence once again in the first line of decision-making. In this sense, Galicia led the drafting of the protocol for the start of the school course with the advice of the Clinical Committee — of course, the Clinical Committee of Galicia —. Once again, our community was at the front. And I say that re-incorporation to classes was essential at that time for a number of reasons: for the necessary reconciliation of family and work life once economic activity was initiated, for socialization, so lacking in confinement; and for the return to routine, fundamental to small people after so long in an environment of restrictions and without routine patterns. Madam Counsellor, from the People's Parliamentary Group, we would like to thank the Government of Galicia — and, in this case, more specifically the Social Policy Council — for not giving in to pressure from the opposition, which, on the side of the BNG, through its trade union arm, wanted to delay the start of the course by promoting protests and demonstrations and, on the side of the PSdEG-PSOE, demanded from the Greek Government some conditions that do not meet their party partners in other communities or much less the Government of Spain, which once again demonstrates its little interest in rowing; on the contrary, indicates a mere propaganda interest and peace in the wheels, away from the collaboration they ask for where they rule. It's only bad that those who make decisions in Galicia are the Government of the People's Party. Currently, about 100 days have passed since the start of the childhood school course, families are checking their functioning as normal as possible given the circumstances. This normality is to thank, on the one hand, for the management of the pandemic by the Feijóo Board, but especially for the involvement of the staff...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u268	Thank you, Mrs. Suárez Sarmiento, you have another thunder later. [[Applause]] Reply by the Social Policy Advisor, Mrs. Fabiola García Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u269	President, ladies and gentlemen, very late. Mrs. Suárez, as you know, Galician childhood schools have reopened their doors last September to start an exceptional school course without any precedents. Just as for the rest of the mothers and fathers of all Galician countries, the absolute priority of the Government of Galicia has been at all times, and it remains now, always ensuring maximum protection for the educational community, both for the educators and educators as well as for the little ones in our home, who are our children. And for that, we have always acted with anticipation for several months before the start of the school course, providing all educational and child care centres with a protocol of action against the covid-19 and a catalogue of measures that we carry out with that post to the facilities to adapt them to the new reality, with the training of all staff and with maximum safety and hygiene for the 4,800 professionals of the different child care centres and also through the conduct of PCR tests to all personnel before the start of the school course. Ladies and gentlemen, you will recall that for six months, children's schools had to temporarily suspend their activity. This assumed a double challenge. On the one hand, the challenge for the Galician Union to urgently implement assistance to families so that they could reconcile their personal lives with their working life. And I also posed a challenge for the professionals who manage children's schools, and that's why we approved an extraordinary package of measures to help them cope with the economic consequences of their cessation of activity. Ladies and gentlemen, three months after this school year, the figures speak for themselves. More than 99% of Galician children's schools work at this time with total normality. Only four remain closed at this time by health indication, and what they tell us is that in the next few days they will start their activity again. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic has presented unprecedented evidence for the families of Galicia and for the Greeks and the Greeks that are part of the educational community of the children's schools. And if we look back for a moment, we can conclude that the test was passed successfully. Because in this course it has been shown that Galicia has excellent child care professionals, who deserve to be trusted every day in them by their parents and mothers in Galicia by leaving to their care and education the people they want most, the little ones in Galicia, who are their children.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u270	Thank you, Counselor. Mrs. Suárez Sarmiento's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u271	Thank you, President. Counsellor, once again commended for the management of the start of the course in Galician children's schools, for the effectiveness of the measures taken and, as I said before, for the trust transferred to families and to the educational community of these centres. In addition to the direct conditioning of the pandemic in the lives of children's schools, it is also fair to pretend in the social measures taken since its department with the aim of improving people's lives, more specifically in terms of child care and the reconciliation of working and family life. The Greek families are familiar and would benefit from these measures, more necessary than ever in the times that we are living in and in the ones that come upon us. Counselor, I would like to thank you for giving us a summary of the results of the implementation of these measures that are so beneficial to the Greek families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u272	Thank you, Mrs. Suárez Sarmiento. Close this question by the Social Policy Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u273	Thank you, President. The activities of the Social Policy Council in the field of children's schools focused mainly on ensuring maintenance and also on adapting to the new reality of the entire network of child care resources, and also on the virtually normal start of school in children's schools within such an exceptional context as we are living, which is that of a health pandemic. The protocol developed jointly by the health and social policy councils not only applies to children's schools in Galicia, but also to children's homes, child care points, children's spaces and various places of play. And as I indicated in my first intervention, the start of the school course is developing with total normality thanks to the strict application of the protocols developed in front of the covid-19, thanks to that centralized supply of protection material that makes the Junta de Galicia every day and also thanks to the involvement of parents and mothers and the various professionals in this very difficult task. The commitment of the Government of Greece to families is one of the main pillars of work of the Social Policy Council and this will allow this course to be remembered not only by the health pandemic, by the pandemic of the coward-19, but also by the year Galicia begins to apply an exceptional measure, an unprecedented measure, such as the freeness of child education for the second and next children. It's a measure where Galicia is once again a reference, where Galicia is a pioneer in the whole of Spain, and which guarantees families the greatest support when the needs are greater. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u274	Thank you, Counselor. Agenda Change
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u275	We moved on to the last question, because they know there's a rendezvous, that a question has been postponed. Question from Da Paloma Castro Rey and five other Members from the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the availability by the Government of Greek from a report of an epidemiological nature of the twenty-five farms of visuals existing in Galicia regarding the cover-19
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u276	Whenever you like, Mrs. Castro
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u277	Mr. President, to whom do I ask the question? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But it's not addressed to either of us, is it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u278	No, you ask the question, the Government will answer you. Don't worry, there are two advisors. He's got both, besides, next door.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u279	All right, all right! Ah! Is it health? Sorry, I thought I was going to be the environmental advisor! Sorry!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u280	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u281	Before starting my question, I also wanted from the Socialist Group to wish Mr. Fernández Prado all the luck on the road he's going to take. And take note of some of your bankmates that the moderate and conciliatory attitude of some Members because they have their reward. I believe that at this point we are all aware of the situation in northern Europe's vision farms, and that at the end of April the sequencing of the complete genome of SARS-CoV-2 outbreaks in a Dutch vision farm revealed the transmission of viruses between humans and visors and vice versa. And from there, multiple infections were detected between the animals and the workers and the workers of these farms. These have spread to farms throughout northern Europe — Holland, Belgium, France, Denmark — and have also caused the massive sacrifice of thousands of sights and the closure of these farms. In Spain, we did not go any further to this problem, since in July on a farm in Teruel, as a result of the emergence of several germs between animals and workers of that kind, the slaughter of 100,000 animals had to be decreed. Galicia is the autonomous community that most farms have from all over Spain, has almost 80% of these farms. And we compete in farms with countries like Russia or China. I am not going to take account now of the convenience or not to allow the existence of these farms, because I believe that this is another debate, and that there will be more at the national level. But if I think it's time to focus on prevention. We have in our community a potential health bomb that has to be controlled. And Junta, despite being aware of what happened elsewhere, is not taking appropriate action. In Galicia we now have approximately 500,000 visuals distributed among 25 farms, and we have no knowledge that there is no protocol of the Galician Union other than what they already had before the pandemic. We need to follow the recommendations of the World Health Organization and urgently implement proactive monitoring systems, such as taking systematic animal and human samples even if there are no symptoms, sequencing the SARS-CoV-2 genome in case outbreaks appear around the farm and communicating and reporting any suspicion. In Galicia until now there was only a passive follow-up, when there were suspicions of possible cases, and only analyses were carried out by the Joint in four of the twenty-five farms of vision in operation. There is a need for proactive follow-up, as was said, as was done in the Netherlands and as experts recommend, which would involve periodic analyses of workers and farm workers, as well as visuals, whether symptoms are present or not. And it is also necessary to perform autopsies to animals that die to know the actual causes of death. That's why I'm asking the questions of whether you have the Union planned to report and make an epidemiological protocol for these twenty-five farms, if you believe that Junta can pose a danger of a groin in them, if you're going to take some kind of measure in relation to the health hazard that these farms pose, if you're going to make periodic PCR to the workers, as you're also doing to other workers who have been...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u282	Thank you, Mrs. Castro Rey. [[Applause]] Answer from the Health Counsellor, Mr. Julio García Comesaña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u283	Good afternoon, President. Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the Cunta de Galicia has conducted a study of the groars produced in Galicia that determines that the area in which they originate is mainly familiar and social. But if we know that, in addition to human infection, in recent months there have been cases in farms in several countries, such as the Netherlands, where transmission of infected human beings has been considered the main source of infection for animals. Since this information was officially communicated by the Ministry of Culture, Fisheries and Food, the Galician Union, immediately, and the official veterinary services contacted the Galician pelagic sector for first-hand information on the situation of farms in connection with this disease. They have also been informed from the Union about the situation in the Netherlands, and they have moved the need to increase prevention measures to prevent the entry of the virus into farms, mainly in relation to the transmission of infection from people. From the very first moment, the Galician Union has, in coordination with the Ministry, established measures aimed at the prevention and control of this disease in vision farms. We also set up a coordination channel between the Animal Health Service, the Rural Council, and the Epidemiology Service, the Health Council. We have launched the Programme for the Prevention, Monitoring and Control of the Possible Introduction and Movement of SARS-CoV-2 in American Vision Farms in Spain, a programme developed by the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries, Food, with the approval and consensus of the Health Alerts and Emergency Coordination Centre of the Ministry of Health. But, in addition to the actions collected in this program, common to the entire state, Junta has decided to carry out a regular monitoring of the total number of American vision farms active in Galicia, consisting in taking periodic animal samples for its PCR analysis at the Galician Animal Health and Production Laboratory. As a result, they are and will continue to be subject to active surveillance of all high-state visual farms, registered in the Galician Gang Exploitation Register, which currently have animals present. The number of holdings in this situation is indeed 25, as shown in your question. In it, animal samples shall be taken by the official veterinary services of the Union, accompanied — at least in the first proceedings — by the veterinary staff of the group of defence of gainful security to which the holding belongs. And in addition, the Directorate General for Public Health of the Board also requires regular monitoring of farm staff through PCR. Finally, not only are we scrupulously fulfilling the protocol established by the state health authorities but we are expanding it in order to give as much security as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u284	Thank you, Counselor. Mr. Castro's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u285	Thank you, President. Counsellor, you can't talk about a foreign problem that occurs only in northern Europe's farms, because I remind you, as I said in the first intervention, that 100,000 animals had to be sacrificed in Toledo because there is a groum that has infected not only animals but also the workers of this farm. I think you're underestimating the health risks of these farms since June, and it's possible that there are no possible outbreaks and mutations due to the lack of preventive monitoring, which is essential. We also spoke to the Galaga Visions Association, and they told us that they are carrying out passive controls; that is, to indicate and report on any attitude or indication of disease. [[Agavi]] But it's not what we were talking about, which is prevention work, which I think is the key to avoiding this. Because, at best, when we realized, it was already out of hand. Besides, what they tell us is that these PCRs and these controls that they're doing to some animals are doing them and assuming the cost. They've been telling us that since March, they haven't been able to make any kind of international sales because the international market for this product is stopped. So you can't leave to third-party responsibility such a serious thing as it can be a health situation that can be generated not only among the populations of these farms but among nearby populations. I think that Junta has to take an active attitude, it has to develop a protocol, because we're talking about a very serious situation, and it can have disastrous consequences on the population, between the Greeks and the Greeks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u286	Thank you, Mrs. Castro. Close the question by the Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u287	President, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Castro, as I indicated at the outset, the board not only complies with the demands of the state health authorities, but increases it. The national program does not establish active monitoring testing for animals — i.e. scheduled routine testing in the absence of any disease suspect — but rather, according to that program, animals would only be subjected to diagnostic tests in the event of detection of symptomatology compatible with the presence of the virus in the farm, or in the case of people in contact with animals diagnosed as positive. On the contrary, the Union goes further. We demand active surveillance testing for animals, and we are also demanding regular monitoring of farm personnel through PCR. So far in Galicia controls have been carried out by suspicion in four farms in our community — because there is some symptom that could be compatible with the infection of covid-19. These controls were carried out both before the approval of the state protocol and from this protocol, and in all cases the results of the laboratory were negative. But, on the other hand, since the existence of infected farms in the Netherlands has been known, Junta has demanded PCR tests on farm workers after their summer vacations. In all cases, again, the results were negative. In the presentation of your question, you realize that these farms can become a health hazard if they do not have full control over the competent authorities. Well, the competent central government authorities have issued a control protocol that we are implementing, but since you are concerned that the state measures are not exhaustive enough — and we too — the health authority of the Galician Union took the initiative to strengthen them and avoid this danger. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-10-DSPG016.u288	Thank you, Counselor. As they have noticed, today there is a fact which is not very common in Parliament, which is to say goodbye to three Members, who are three who are leaving in the coming days. I'm Mr. Cores Touris, Mr. Fernández Prado and Mr. Vázquez Almuína. I want to say goodbye and thank you for your parliamentary work. You are now ambassadors of Parliament to their fate, which we know is what it is. And I ask them to divulge the work we do in Parliament. We are still committed to knowing what Parliament's mission is and how it works in Parliament. I ask you to be our accomplices. I can't tell you how proud you feel when you stop being a Member, because I'm still going around, but I can tell you that I've talked to a lot of people who have been Members and that everyone comments on me the same thing, that there's nothing more proud of you than being Members of the German Parliament. I wish them luck. I know that the three go to a port authority, and the best we can wish for is that they have a very good journey, that they are very healthy and very lucky. We bid them farewell with great affection, as they deserve. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] It's over.
