ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u1	Good morning. We resume the session with the sixth item on the agenda, questions for oral answer by the President of the Union. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Gonzalo Caballero Miguez, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the assessment made by the Government of the Italian Self-Government by the National Audience on 1 October 2020 regarding the merger of savings banks
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u2	You have the floor, Mr. Knight Miguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. I have to start my question today by referring to a historic issue that is now living in the Congress of Deputies. A motion of censure that jeopardizes the model of coexistence presented by the ultra-right, and we want to transfer from the PSdEG all our rejection and ask all political forces, also the People's Party, to stand by the Government in the face of the fascist threat of ultra-right populism in our country. [[Applause]] Ten years ago Galician savings banks were merged. Ten years ago there was a roadmap in which Galicia's financial system ended up losing, after that political decision made since the Galician Union that you chaired led to a hole that involved a cost of more than eight billion euros; every year that passes in its government we are paying a billion euros because of its management in the merger of the boxes. Because there's a car, Mr. Feijóo, of October 1st which is very revealing. He just told the National Audience that "the only reason the FROB intervened was because of the economic-financial situation in which it was in 2010 Caixa Galicia, before the merger took place. Caixanova would never have been intervened had it not been forced to merge with Caixa Galicia." You marked that obligation, you implied and determined from the power of the Board a merger that Caixanova didn't want, that the direction of Caixanova rejected in his council unanimously, with BNG's abstention, because they knew what the scene was. And as one car says, which is not an opinion, which is a judicial resolution, there was an intervention which led to a stage that left Galicia without the boxes, which left Galicia in such a complex scenario. And you, Mr. Feijóo, are responsible for this situation. He is responsible that while you were offering and signing with a stylograph Montblanc, made for the occasion, citizenship was on the street, tens of thousands of people telling him in the city of Vigo, representing people from all throughout Galicia and all the south of Galicia, that this merger was an outrage against the city, against the south of Galicia and also against the old House of Ourense; that there could be a box like the car now says. [[Mr. Knight Miguez shows the House a photograph.]] [[Applause]] [[Mr. Knight Miguez shows the House another photograph.]] And this is what was marked in other autonomous communities, where structures were sought to continue being the foundations of the savings boxes that have control and share ownership even majority in different boxes. What happened in Galicia didn't happen in Catalonia or the Basque Country, where foundations are maintained that control a very important part of the shareholdersship of the various banks that emerged. That's why this is the biggest financial disaster in Galicia throughout history. And you, Mr. Feijóo, with the chief of Feijóo, with the chief of fiasco, with the end of failure, with the end of the merger, have to explain to Galicia a car that involves an eight billion-euro hole that you have to explain to the Greeks and to the Greeks, Mr. Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u4	Thank you, Mr. Knight. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u5	Congratulations, Mr. Knight! With regard to this motion of censure, which seems to have just received a message from Ferraz, you know that our opinion from the beginning is that this motion of censure does not cease to be an entertainment show that suits the Government of the Socialist Party and the Podemos very well, and very badly the alternative to that evil communist social government. Ladies and gentlemen, the first thing the motion of censure concerns is you, your parliamentary group, your political group and, of course, Podemos, absent from this chamber, because the Greeks have decided so. And the second, Your Honor, you know very well that in order to change the Government of Sánchez there is only one possibility that there is an alternative to a parliamentary group, which is the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party. You continue, Your Honor, amusing while Spain is in the worst economic and institutional situation and, unfortunately, also with some anti-democratic tic that concerns all Democrats. [[Applause]] But, of course, coming from you, anything can be possible. You just quit being the Secretary General of the Socialist Party and become a third-place director of a city in Galicia. Your Honor, in your question you comment on three falsities: the first one, the car does not affect the merger of the boxes; the second one, the car is about a 40 million euro credit operation, two years before the merger and therefore nothing to do with it; thirdly, the car — which you ignore — is a criminal proceeding in the face of a complaint from the FROB public administration to the directors of the box you are defending, Caixanova. It's hard to tell more lies in a parliament based on a car you've just manipulated; just like all your intervention is absolute manipulation. Your Honor, on the previous case situation, allow me to say that the Socialist Party and the Bipartite should explain to us why when this government took possession they were in breach. And you didn't say anything at all; on the contrary, you hid the cashier's situation during your term of office. Who should know was also the Banco de España. That's why the Banco de España, with that stylographic pen you mean, signed the merger. Who should know were the leaders of Caixanova, too. And allow me to quote what the maximum directive of Caixanova said, textually, "or merger or instant death once core capital increases." You say no; the press clipping of Lugo's Progress is at your disposal. I hope Lugo's journalists don't lie; you do. But what is most important, Your Honor, is that what we did was even what the governor of the Bank of Spain said, that is, at the end; because at first what the governor and the Socialist Party wanted was that Galicia had no boxes. Bankia to Madrid operation and another Liberbank to Asturias operation. That was your goal, Your Honor, and that is the goal that we prevent most of the Greeks from the People's Parliamentary Group. [[Applause]] Your Honor, your objective was that Galicia had been left without any financial center, without any decision. And in case you, as it is obvious, don't worry about the truth, you should review the National Court's judgement of October 22, 2015,...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u7	...ratified by the Supreme Court. And there he speaks of fusion and he says, Caixa Galicia was in an insolvency situation and Caixanova, whose situation was not so serious, had serious problems of viability. And that's why at the end of 2009 they started contacts for the integration process, in order to ensure their development and their future stability. Your Honor, this is the provincial court car ratified by the Supreme Court. And you come here with a processing car to Caixanova managers who only do the hearing is to say that this is decided in Pontevedra judges. And you do here the paraphernalia of a bad political leader...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u8	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u9	...and a very bad general secretary of the Socialist Party. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u10	Thank you, President. Replica, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u11	Mr. Feijóo, follow you on the escalation of lies you continue to refer to the matter of boxes. You have to explain to Galicia why you forced, why you made it, why you marked a merger of boxes with which one of the entities disagreed, and where in front of your lies the words published by the Audience's car are very clear, meridianly clear. [[Mr. Knight Miguez shows the House a photocopy.]] The only one who manipulates, the only one who keeps lying, the only one who doesn't want to acknowledge his failure in the merger of the boxes, because he would have to explain his management, which involved eight billion public funds holes that had to be put on, is you. And the Meridian ruling made it clear: "Cajanova would never have been intervened unless it had been forced to merge with Caixa Galicia." I don't interpret, Mr. Feijóo; I give you the texts, the reality, and you manipulate. You don't want to recognize the reality of your worst management, the biggest financial disaster that has occurred in Galicia and that has the name Alberto Núñez Feijóo. [[Applause]] And the citizens know so much, and they know the reality of the country. Look, Mr. Feijóo, where's the KPMG report, that you said it was a report that blew up that merger? Why don't you assume that you've already said clearly that the person responsible for that... that you haven't done an audit, that it was a mere factual report, that you haven't completed the necessity of that merger, that you've also cheated on it, and it cost you a million euros of the public archives that never appeared. Mr. Feijóo, you don't want to see what happened in other communities and you're playing. For example, in Catalonia, where the Fundación de La Caixa has 40% of CaixaBank, or in Kutxabank, where the three old boxes ended up setting up banking foundations and maintaining a territorial deployment. And you keep playing escape, escape from reality. And when he's taught, he makes statements out of context. This is the best reality: a city of Vigo that was collapsed, which was nowhere to move because everyone who wanted to arrive at the demonstration could not leave the portal of his house. [[Mr. Caballero Miguez shows a photograph in the direction of the government seats.]] That's the reality that the Greeks and the Greeks know, tens of thousands who were there, and those you owe them an explanation, because their management, taken by the interests of their political and economic partners in Galicia to try to make a run forward that has not solved anything, is a black page that you signed with that Montblanc. [[Murmurs.]] The Banco de España did not establish that merger between the two boxes had to be established. No one has marked that agenda more than you, you from Galician Unity. And you know all the actors who were involved at that time that you marked that line to try to make a roadmap that forced us to stay...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u12	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u13	...without either of the two boxes and no bank foundation, which today could have a fundamental part of the shareholdership of a bank which was fundamentally linked to Galicia, which could not be moved. And that's why you, Mr. Feijóo, owe that answer to the Greeks and to the Greeks. Stop escaping and explain your fiasco, the failure of the merger of the boxes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u14	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u15	...which is one more black page...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u16	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u17	...from your economic management history...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u18	Thank you, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u19	...that leaves Galicia without Pescanova, without Caramel, without so many companies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u20	Thank you, your time is up. [[Mr. Caballero Miguez utters words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Question closing round, president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u21	If it wasn't because we're in the middle of the pandemic this would be nothing but an intervention, bad that would be, yes, of a comic, that comes here just don't know what he's talking about. [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor: "Ordonez admits that the Galician merger avoided the intervention of the boxes", Governor of Banco de España. [[Mr. Nuñez Feijó showed the House a leaflet.]] National Court, Judgment 40/2015 of 22 October 2015, ratified by the judgement of the Supreme Court of 9 September 2016. These are judgments, Your Honor. You come again to manipulate and say that it's clear what the judgement of the National Audience says, and it's not a sentence, it's a car. It's a car that says that the demand against box managers, for giving a credit for forty-three million euros, four years before the merger, has to be substantial in Pontevedra. That's what the car says. And you come here, Your Honor, resigning as Secretary General of the Socialist Party. President of the Coruña Parliament, 10 May 2009, said: "The merger of the boxes is viable, solvent and generates value". Mayor da Coruña da tempo, December 2, 2009: "Satisfied by the decision of the Union to bet on fusion". Delegate of the Government of the Socialist Party, April 28, 2010: "We cannot save any effort to achieve this fusion." Even a spokesperson or Mr. Leicega in this chamber: "What would be good news for the Galicians, that merger of the boxes." Your Honor, don't you even worry about knowing what your party thinks? But his party has a part of common sense and institutional sense and to defend Galicia over any localism. And that's why, unfortunately, your party is in the worst possible situation today. Look, it gives me the feeling that you've seen this question, thinking that the People's Parliamentary Group would not support the Committee on Boxes. It turns out that we support the Committee of Inquiry to make a definitive investigation of the Committee on Boxes. [[Applause]] Your Honor, we already knew that you were a defender of Pedro Sánchez; from now on we know that you are a defender of the governor of the Bank of Spain, of Mr Miguel Ángel Fernández Ordonez, of Mr Zapatero and also of the directors of a box. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, I don't owe anything to any director of any Greek box, only to the Greeks, exclusively, gentlemen. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] When you come here to say that, as a result of this parliamentary group referring to its statutory powers, we owe nine billion, what are you talking about? This parliamentary group has avoided the breakdown of the two boxes. The nine billion euros owe us the negligent management of the managers of Galician savings boxes, which when we arrived at the government were broken, and you didn't even inform us.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u22	Silence! Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u23	Mr. Knight, I deeply regret it. You're on your right to defend the box managers, go on. We are to defend the Greeks and the savers, and the four thousand jobs in the boxes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor, we are now ten years later, and it happens that there are 4,000 people working in a bank with home and registered office in Galicia: in the Cantons and in García Barbon, with people, central services and the risk committee...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u24	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u25	...domiciliated in the autonomous community. What was your proposal, Mr. Knight? His proposal was that Caixa Galicia had gone to Bankia, that is, she had disappeared. Now you're talking about a Catalan box. Oh, yes, the one in Valencia, who ends up or is merging with Bankia. Was that your proposal? The proposal was for Caixa Galicia to go to Bankia, for Bankia to join with Caixa Catalana and for them to go to Valencia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u26	Please finish, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u27	...Option of Knight. And the second proposal is that Box New had gone to Liverbank, which now seems to be that if you want to merge -- no more remedies left -- than with Box South or with Unique in Malaga. What was your proposal: that Vigo had moved to Malaga and Coruña had moved to Valencia? No, Your Honor, the Coruña and Vigo are staying in Galicia and we have a bank in Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u28	Thank you. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the actions planned to shield the residences of older persons in front of the vault-19
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u29	You have the floor to Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u30	Thank you very much, President. The truth is that we start this session and we see the People's Party and the Socialist Party again using this camera to defend Sánchez and the Marriage, ignoring Galicia's own problems in front of the state. The truth is it's a shame they use this parliament just like an echo of what's happening in Madrid. [[Applause]] Because we have very serious situations to solve in our country. Precisely confronting us with a pandemic that is marking one before and one after our lives and which, of course, has in the management of senior residences a line of non-return that depicts the dramatic consequences of turning old age into a business. Residence DomusVi San Lázaro, in Santiago, 50 deceased; residence DomusVi Barreiro, de Vigo, 32 deceased; residence DomusVi de Cangas, 31 deceased; residence Our Lady of Esperanza, de Ourense, 28 deceased; residence of Incio, 18 deceased; residence Portazgo, da Coruña, 15 deceased; residence Our Lady of Fatima, do Barco, 15 deceased; residence Santa Teresa de Jornet, in Coruña, 12 deceased; residence Moledo, in Vigo, 13 deceased; residence of Gozos, do Pereiro de Aguiar, 13 deceased; residence Arenal conception, in Coruña, 10 deceased; residence Remanso, in Coruña, 10 deceased; residence The Fragas, de Pontedeume, 9 deceased; residence DomusVi Matogrande, in Coruña, 9 deceased; residence San Carlos, Major person, Celanova. And so, Mr. Feijóo, you could go on with a list that shrinks your heart to a total of 364 older people who died of cowardly deaths in the residences. Many of them weren't even taken to hospitals. A group of 20,000 people who bear 44% of the deaths per capita during this pandemic. And we can understand that in March there was no anticipation, but that seven months later they were unable to shield the residences and only act when there are massive contagions and even deaths. And while all of this happens, you have the shame of telling the new people in this country that it is irresponsible and that it causes infections, that it causes income in the ICU, and that it causes deaths. A dishonest accusation that they deny the data of their own government. [[Applause]] Mr. Feijóo, who causes victims by the coward is not the young Greek. Instead of blaming her, she should think of her inability to anticipate, her inability to learn from mistakes and act and her model of residences that she does business with this country's old age. We ask you, Mr. Feijóo, to rectify it, because we are talking about the health of older people, who must never feel abandoned by their government again. That's why we asked him, "What are you going to do to shield the senior residences?"
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Pontón, you shouldn't mind me not agreeing with Mr. Sánchez's Government. I know you support him here and in Madrid, but I have my own opinion. You agree with Mr. Sánchez's government and I don't, because I think it's bad for Galicia and it's bad for Spain. I should not, therefore, bother you that we disagree in your head government. Mrs. Pontón, with all due respect, because I think this well deserves at least a little respect and no demagogy. Your Honor, we have about thirty-seven thousand people in Galicia between workers and users in the residences of old age and disability. Thanks to the work of these workers, which you seem to despise, Galicia is one of the most influential autonomous communities in the homes of the elderly. 91% of senior residences in Galicia are totally free of coronovirus right now. And only 1.13% of all users and workers are affected. I think this will be because some things workers do well. I am surprised, Your Honor, that you continue with your demagogy, when you are unable even to recognize that thanks to these residents, public, private, social-initiative workers, Galicia is one of the autonomous communities with a lesser percentage of the deceased in the residences in total of those who died during the pandemic. In Galicia, 43.7%, eighteen points less than in the average of Spain, which rises to 62%. Galicia is the third community in all Spain with fewer deaths in residences. In Canada, 80% of the deaths of coronavirus are in the homes of the elderly; in Norway, Israel and Ireland, approximately as in Spain, 60%; in Belgium and France, 50%; and in Galicia, 43%. You talk to me about a series of residences; we know exactly what they are, Your Honor. What you're missing is that of the residences that took place in the Galician Union, which was eight, five are social entities. Do you think social entities do business with the biggest ones? That's your proposal. The San Rosendo Foundation or a religious order, when they care for the elders is to do business? Well, look: of the eight residences we've intervened, three are private residences and five are social entities. That's the result, Your Honor, of not seriously addressing the coronavirus problem. Of course, we're serious about it. That's why we have the objective of being able to correct and, of course, to give information, and of course, Your Honor, to denounce that the Government of Spain does not even form the dead by the coronavirus, and you have denied it at the Congress of Deputies to be investigated. This is the double measuring rod: the BNG in the Congress of Deputies does not want residences to be investigated anymore, but does not even investigate the number of deceased in Spain, and comes here to teach ethics and morals in relation to residences. As I think what it's about is not what you say or what I suggest, we're really worried about residences. That is why we have a proposal, which will be discussed in an expert committee, how we can continue to improve the results and care in the residences and how we can continue to avoid a coronary virus infection that has in check all European democracies. I know, Your Honor, that European democracies are perhaps not your example for us.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u33	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u34	Galicia is in a situation of lesser gravity, in the area of residences, that in most European democracies, starting with Spanish democracy. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u35	Thank you, President. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u36	Mr. Feijóo, I ask you to put yourself on the skin of a Welshman or a Galician who has been for months without being able to see his father or mother, who one day received a telephone call saying that they were contaminated by cowards, who the next day called him to inform him of his death, who could not even even say goodbye and share his pain. You tell them we're better than the average is absolutely shameful and a lack of respect for the situation in this country. [[Applause]] Of course, Mr. Feijóo, we understand that our older ones are people we have to respect and not to be compared with any average. Start looking at the best and stop looking at the worst. Because this country needs a government that doesn't surrender or throw the towel in front of the fight against the coward. We can't normally assume what's going on in senior residences, we can't assume it, Mr. Feijóo, and your responsibility is to lick it. And I ask him to stop hiding behind the workers and the workers; stop hiding, leave them alone. The Block respects those workers and workers. [[Applause]] Stop doing demagogy and assume your responsibilities. We are quite clear that the surrender of these people saved lives. But now what we want to know is that he's going to go to Galicia to shield the residences. And we're going to make some proposals again, because we think this is important, Mr. Feijó. We believe that soon there is an urgent need for older residences to be blocked. And for that we ask you to advance, to intervene all residences while we are in this second wave of the vault, that we are seeing you get back to full residences, to increase your staff ratios and improve your working conditions, because that's how you can recognize the effort you're doing, to review, Mr. Feijóo, the protocols that guarantee PCR to 100 percent of the users while we're currently critical of the pandemic. [[Applause]] And of course, of course, we need to review this model that you want, not that you want, that you're doing business with the right to a worthy old age. I anticipate that since BNG we will bring the reactivating Commission a new model of attention to our elders, based on the public service they have to perform. Because speaking to me by the People's Party of the San Rosendo Foundation as a model for caring for older people is a trick after all we know, but it eludes you that there are large funds like DomusVi, which are also being one of the most important outbreaks of infection, which are controlled by foreign funds, as if nothing had happened at all, just tell everyone who defends them. BNG argues that the right to old age is a right to safeguard with public services. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u37	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u38	We see you're defending the foreign funds.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Close this question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u40	Your Honor, that company you're referring to took the intervention in three institutions, in three residences of the Galician Union, and has three files open. Therefore, Your Honor, we have no more objective; there are thirty-five files open by inspection, and if necessary they will open more. Now, speaking of demagogy, saying that you couldn't fire an older man, a grandfather or a grandmother, a father during the alarm state, and that you forget that we were in an alarm state, it's an improper demagogy. It's a lack of absolute ethics. To blame the Galician Union for not being able to say good-bye to the elders during the state of alarm is regrettable. It is to meet the criteria of the Clinical Committee when we have a coronovirus death, which restricts visits to the maximum, even during the first few days, not even if we could fire a person who was not dying in a residence, but in an ICU. That's an impromptu defamation. And come here as yesterday's vote against an organic law to manage the pandemic and be in favour of the state of permanent alarm, which prevents exactly those mobility rights, and now come to say the opposite, that's again a triple undoing that surprises me. But there you are, gentlemen. We're going to keep strict compliance. You won't teach me what it's like to die a father in a residence; my father died in a residence. You won't show me how much suffering that means. So a minimum of decoration with the families who lost the eldest in the homes during the pandemic and still lose it. A minimum of decoration, Mrs. Pontón! [[Applause]] You think you're defending the biggest, when it turns out that after election nights, all you do is depress them. Your Honor, yesterday at the Clinical Committee we made important decisions to continue fighting against the pandemic; they are decisions motivated by concern. We are concerned about the evolution of the pandemic in Galicia. Even though we are the autonomous community with fewer beds occupied in ICU and Cantabria that we have less beds occupied in hospital, they worry about us. And to achieve the new results, better than the average of Spain, there is a permanent approach: professionalism in the Clinical Committee and anticipation of decisions. I know the measures we proposed yesterday are complex and hard for the population, but it's the best way to prevent the evolution of the pandemic from getting worse in Galicia, as it is aggravated in many cities and in many autonomous communities in Spain. I'm talking about measures we could take within our powers. That's why we must remember that measures will be more efficient when taken in a coordinated manner and since legal security. So I won't get tired of asking for a law to manage the pandemic; a law that gives public health authorities the ability to make decisions, a law that doesn't come up to blackmailing the alarm state: ask if you want it, and if you want it there. Your Honor, we're talking about health, we're talking about a virus that kills and we're talking about a situation where there's no drug or vaccine. And here politics is unfortunately poisoning the management of a pandemic. I would also like to take this opportunity to appeal once again to the responsibility of all, Members and Members of this House, and of course to the Greeks, to continue to stand up to the present time of difficulty as they were during the state of alarm. It's a call to banish incivil behavior, without demagogy, Mrs. Pontón. It's going to touch us all to sacrifice parcels of freedom, but the good we have to protect above all consideration is the lives of people.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u41	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u42	And in this we are absolutely committed to the thirty-four members of the Clinical Committee, the Galego Health Service, the 30,000 people who work in it, the thirty-seven thousand users and workers of senior residences. That's why we put a little bit of ours, we stop doing demagogy, we pass laws to manage the pandemic. And let's not use the pain of people, simply, Mrs. Ponton, for a minute, of what you will regret after reading in the Journal of Sessions what you just said. If you think the Galician Union won't continue to look after the elders, you're wrong about the country, you're wrong about the Greeks and you're wrong about government. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, Mrs. Pontón, why do you want the word?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u44	On the basis of Article 76.3, after the statements that Mr Feijóo has just made, which I think are outraged by attacking this spokesman...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u45	No, no, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u46	...on such a serious subject and of course manipulating my words. It's not worth everything in politics, Mr. Feijóo! Indignant!...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u47	You have no word, Mrs. Pontón. There will be nothing in the Session Diary. No, I've explained: there will be nothing in the Journal of Sessions. I told you I didn't have the floor because the debate was a debate of respectful political confrontation. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] No, no, no. Mrs. Pontón, you don't have the floor. Thank you. It's over. Besides, you don't understand anything. Thank you. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] This debate is over. I'm sorry, this debate is over... No, there's nothing going on in the Session Diary. [[Murmurs.]] No, no, no. No, there's nothing in the Journal of Sessions. Thank you. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Thank you, thank you, Mrs. Pontón. No, this is over, it's over. [[Applause]] Accumulation of two non-law proposals for their joint debate
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u48	Accumulating debate on two non-legislative proposals: one from the People's Parliamentary Group and the other from the Parliamentary Group on the Galician Nationalist Block. They are about the demands of the Central Government for the restoration of the railway services that have been abolished because of the state of alarm by the coward-19. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Elena Candia López and fourteen other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Galician Union before the Government of Spain to restore all the railway services that were removed by hanging in the pandemic caused by the coward-19, both in the internal connections in the Galician community itself and in the connections of Galician with other autonomous communities, and so that quality train transport can be provided to users Proposal by G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Mr. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and two other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the railway services abolished on the occasion of the state of alarm and the modernization and improvement of the railway network of Galicia, as well as the actions to be carried out in railway matters
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u49	An amendment by the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group was tabled to the proposal by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u50	The debate begins. For that you have the floor, first of all, by the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Martín Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u51	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Today we bring a non-law proposal on the restoration of railway services in Galicia, which I think is a social cry. In Galicia, wherever you want to look and ask, there's this demand, which I have to say is totally current. We still knew yesterday that in Vilagaría the university went to school because they didn't have enough squares. [[Mr. Fernández Prado shows the House a photograph.]] We knew this was happening all over the Atlantic, not only from university students but in general from the population. We've been like this for weeks, even months. In Ourense the officials who were going to work on the early morning train to Santiago, removed the train, as well as denounced our companion Noelia Pérez, have to go now by car. [[Mr. Fernández Prado shows the House another photograph.]] The people of Lugo also had to go out and manifest themselves at the station, accompanied by our colleague Ramón Carballo, who accompanied the citizens. People, in general, at the Barco and the Street, car demonstrations to ask them not to close the sales stations of the present tickets, or to put another train back on them so they don't have to sleep in Ourense in connection with Ourense. [[Mr. Fernández Prado shows the House another photograph.]] The Coruña hosts are asking for more frequencies. Even Renfe's own public employees, of all trade unions, of all, also UXT, who have manifested themselves asking for more services, because besides this is not only a loss of services and quality, but also jobs and unemployment, which is the most painful thing at the moment. [[Mr. Fernández Prado shows the House another photograph.]] It's the same side we look at, it's the same: whole Galicia is protesting against these cuts; cuts from the Socialist Party, and maybe even calling them "shortcuts" seems little to me. Little, because really, if we look at the elimination of services, frequencies, restrictions, total lack of investment, delays in the AVE, I think we have to talk about a real aggression against Galicia and the Greeks and the Greeks. Then I'll give you a little more detail about these assaults, but I'd like to take a general consideration before entering these details. On the one hand, we are seeing that a socialist Government has, of course, taken two years with the support of the BNG, with a vote that makes them complicit — BNG's lords, accomplices of this government and always accompanying their votes — that not only makes deaf hearings of all these demands of citizenship and of the Government of the Union itself, of fair requests, but also says that it will continue this way and that it does not intend to listen to the Greeks. That's why we bring this non-law proposition. After paralyzing all investments, we have to listen to how we hear this week the Secretary of State says that they will triple, triple, the funds for the Mediterranean corridor. One thing that's not new, because it's been two years, with all the left welcome, bringing funds to the Mediterranean axis against the Spanish northwest. And they also announced that they're going to triple it with the Next Generation funds for the Mediterranean corridor. From the corridor of Galicia, from the Atlantic corridor, from the Galician branch, not a word, not a good news, at least no announcement, not even an announcement, no more will or concretion. And this junta has been repeatedly complaining, sending letters, demands, transfers. The silence by answer, without transparency, without information, without giving any certainty more than saying that they are not going — listen to the latest things said by the president of operator Renfe himself — to restate these services until we have that demand. Obviously, it's hard for us to have that demand if we don't have the services. Let me take a brief look at these — I say — aggravations, aggressions that we are suffering in Galicia: Renfe kept operating at 30% during the alarm state. Seven months later we're about 50%. This is obviously producing a major negative impact on mobility, on the right of mobility for the Greeks and also on the competitiveness of the Greek economy in general. But by setting a concrete example: the Vigo-Santiago-The Coruña Atlantic Axis, of the most demanding and profitable, is half; of the twenty-four services I had, depending on the day, twelve. Connection to Madrid, also half, from six to three. The Madrid and Barcelona hotels have disappeared. Like the train to the Basque Country, it's gone. Lugo's connection to Madrid, one day; thank God the president of Adif is from Lugo, which if not... Ourense's first hour train, disappeared. Vigo, out of high speed. In the Coruña yesterday, no video conference was held to the general directorate of Adif to discuss an agreement, an intermodal one, agreeing to the Town Hall and the Union, which are of different colors. But he didn't even put himself on a video conference. In the boat and in the street, closing the presence sale, that this, in addition, remember that they tried it last year, this came here last year. They're taking advantage of the vault to realize something they've been wanting to do for a while. Let's remember you've seen this here. So we could keep talking about this. This goes from dark brown, which would say the saying. It's no longer a matter of cowardice or anything. In view of this, I believe that the Union is proving that another kind of policy can be made. Also in road transport is on demand at 50%, but Junta since July has already recovered 100 percent of the inland lines within each province and more than 80% among provinces. In any case, since July it has been recovered regardless of the demand. What did you do to Junta? Well, first give the service and then compensate the different companies that have a concessionaire for those losses, for forcing them to work to give that service without the corresponding demand. Today we know that they are going — said the newspaper — to finally open the stage of Pedralba-Zamora, which has been waiting since the beginning of 2019, and they tell us that in a few days. We'll see, I hope! But the president of the Government has already told us that the work of the AVE to Galicia would end in 2019, and in 2021 it won't be either. Keep lying to us! One lie after another, and it's not true. At least don't lie. And what do we ask? Well, we're not asking for more than what the Greeks and the Greeks are asking for, that public service obligations be met, because this is a public service obligation. When the PSOE and Renfe say it's not profitable and it's not economically profitable, it's not business business, it's a public service that's also declared as a public service obligation, and that's why it's subsidized, because it's obvious, especially in the interior, that it's not profitable. So they're cutting off a public service. What do we ask for? That citizens' right to this mobility should be maintained and the railway services cancelled should be restored. Then we'll talk, Mr Bará, other investments and services. But if we're not able to get what we've been having for years to go back again, it's a little optimistic to think that this government, with its support, will increase services, when it's unable to meet even the investments it had in the 2018 budget; almost three years to execute them and they're still running. That Rajoy budget had the investments and they didn't run them in three years, clear will because that money went directly to the Mediterranean axis. We therefore simply ask that these railway services be restored, that they be provided in quality because they were already insufficient before the pandemic. They don't use the pandemic as an excuse to continue cutting down services to Galicia and continuing to dominate the Mediterranean axis. That we have to denounce him in this parliament! If we don't denounce here that we're taking investments towards the Mediterranean axis as a strategy of the Government of Spain, we're going wrong; because this is, at least, I doubt they will listen to us and listen to us. Because look what we've been protesting about these things! But at least it's clear to them and it's the protest of the Greeks and the Greeks. And all we ask for is that quality service, that these frequencies are recovered, that trains are recovered to Madrid, Barcelona, the Basque Country, that these services are improved, that they are sold again at the head stations of the interior with presence sale, that the jobs they are removing are restored and that official and true information is given. In short: not to continue to discriminate against Galicia and the Spanish north-west against the Mediterranean. Or I said otherwise: to do the opposite of what the Left Government is doing these two years, the Socialist Government in Madrid.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u52	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u53	So we ask for and we understand that you will have the majority and unanimous support of this chamber, because I think it's a demand, a cry from all of Galicia that we need to recover these public services. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u54	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u55	Good morning. Thank you, President. We'll talk again about the train on this camera. And I want to start making a reminder to the victims of Alvia, who have been claiming truth for seven years, justice, and reparation. And an independent investigation, as the European Commission has said, to deny them the centralist parties. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] It is a new debate on the train which is, of course, necessary, a timely debate and an opportunistic debate for some; an opportunistic debate on the suppression of services motivated by the state of alarm, which has all the logic. But the situation has changed since the alarm state, after the confinement and the summer; especially when after the summer school activity and the work activity begins, and it doesn't make sense to keep this situation of suppression on some lines of up to two-thirds of railway services. With all the problems that are creating this situation both in the vicinity — if we can talk about neighbourhoods in Galicia — as in the medium distance, as well as in communications with the outside. You, Mr. Fernández Prado, have forgotten to talk about the port; I know you look a lot for Madrid, but we also have a train like that, a chuchu train, which communicates us from Vigo to Porto. And, of course, we request the gradual recovery of all services and schedules, and in addition to the most logical ones. Because it doesn't really make sense that you don't get that train schedule back, for example, from the Avant leaving at 6.45 in Ourense, which is logical communication to take people to their work, Santiago or Coruña. That's got no feet or heads. And so we can talk about many other lines. And this has to be done not only by economic criteria — I say "responsibility" — but also by economic criteria, especially social criteria, environmental criteria and health protection criteria. And that's what I have to do with a government that is called a progressive government; if there's a progressive government, it has to take these criteria into account. And besides, we didn't ask for the moon, we asked for something that was already deficient before the pandemic; the situation of the train was very weak in most of the lines before the pandemic. And the truth is, I have to confess that I am absolutely moved by the intervention of the People's Party representative. It came to my heart that passionate defense you made of demonstrations. Welcome to the demonstrations, Mr. Fernández Prado! You even put the picture of the demonstration organized by the BNG in Valdeorras — thanks for the publicity — led by our Lady Mary Albert. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Thanks for the publicity! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] The truth is, you're showing a great deal of over-acting ability. I will propose that they give Mrs. Ethel Vázquez a Master Matthew Award for her ability to act in this matter. Well, a prize to the parting actress, because in this film her role is to cultivate the epistoll genre. Because Mrs Ethel Vázquez is an expert in sending letters to Madrid but nothing else. Mr. Fernández Prado, over-acting and above all a great capacity for conversion and cynicism that you have. Because you spend every day as a military officer in the Caladino procession confrerery at the Holy Lamento confrerery. And suddenly, when they were quiet, it turns out they're angry and they're more sorry than anyone. You've been quiet for years and keep quiet in Madrid when you talk about Gallica's problems. So don't come here to teach anyone a lesson. Too bad, by the way, that you didn't get into this fear of defense of the railway in all those years that they ruled in Madrid, 2012-2018, that this was indeed a frontal attack and a destruction of the Welsh railway. Mr. Fernández Prado, who was Mr. Rajoy as President of the Government and was Mrs. Ana Pastor as Minister of Development! [[Applause]] And the biggest attack in history on the Welsh railway has occurred in those years, look at what I'm telling you. And you in the procession of the Caladinos. You in 2013 announced the Plan of Rationalization of Rail Transport and eliminated one hundred and four trains a week. That was not a temporary suppression caused by a state of alarm or pandemic, it was definitive. You removed 1,776 stops from the railway in Galicia, and you closed forty stations. Therefore, the first thing they had to do when going up here to this gallery is ask forgiveness, ask for forgiveness from Galicia and the Greek people for all the defeat they had done with their railroad. That was the first thing they had to do. And then the German People's Party, independent and liberal, of course, was silent; now it was thrown into the mountain, but then it was silent. You applaud those decisions with your ears, those attacks on the German train. I'm going to read you a quote from a People's Party Member pronounced in this parliament when these disposals of services were taking place in 2013: "The cuts are all logical because of the budgetary situation, the social demand and the real use of the service," Mr. Román Rodríguez, spokesperson for the People's Party in this parliament. That's the attitude of the People's Party: to shut up when Galicia is attacked depending or not on who rules in Madrid. And that's the big difference between the BNG and the People's Party, because the BNG was defending the same thing in 2012 as now, exactly the same thing. We don't change as the wind comes. [[Applause]] You, therefore, are not trustworthy. That's why you also failed to fulfill a commitment you made to this parliament, which was approved here, of the creation of the nearby train in Galicia, of the creation of the German railway force. What has happened with this since it was approved in 2009, since it was fought and the creation of the German railway force in 2010? And then they were in the government and they didn't create it, and they didn't just create it, but they got rid of it, they figured out what was going on. And so we reached 2018-2019. So you don't come here to teach us lessons. And the reality that we have on the Welsh railway, taking away some exceptions, that's it. This is the situation of the Coruña-Ferrol line, which comes first by bike rather than by train. You'll tell me, will you have anything to do with you who've been ruling for many years in the State Government? And I'm not telling you about the situation of the Ferrol-Ribadeo train, which is the situation: that the trains would be damaged every two by three, that there are no drivers, that there are no operators to charge the ticket -- so they give the statistics, of course, that no one uses it. That's the reality of the German train, Mr. Fernández Prado, and you have a lot of responsibility. Or the railway isolation of Lugo. Because I'm deeply indigested with press headlines saying that Monforte's line has 9% occupation. But if it's heroes who take that line, the number of services there are, the kind of frequencies there are, the quality of that service and the length of time it has. They're real heroes and heroes. It's a real shame! Not to mention the line between Vigo and Ourense, at which cost double the train that the bus arrives half an hour before. Or what happens — as I told you — with the train Vigo-O Porto, where there is a daily frequency and which is in line throughout the state in the use of fifty passengers per day. A real shame that is the responsibility of the Central Government, the Portuguese Government, and also the Government of the Galician Union. Finally, you also talked about closing stations, and you also have a lot to do with this. You talked about the delay of the freight train. Indeed, we have no connection to ports, we have no connection to logistics knots; there is the dry port of Monforte, there is PLSAN. And why are you here trying to teach lessons about the northwest corridor, when you were responsible for 2013 and 2017 that that corridor didn't enter the Atlantic corridor, it's the one that sends tricks to Havana! You are responsible for this situation, and now you come here to presume and teach. This is the panorama that has left us the People's Party, a picture now aggravated by the state and the pandemic, which is responsible for this situation of the Central Government, of Renfe, of Adif, and which is making excuses for the poor payer, which has no explanation and which are also endangering health. In fact, this photo of last Sunday in Vilagarcia is a shame, that there are a hundred and I beat students in a station waiting for the train, which is massive, that they all go in love with the train. [[Mr Bará Torres shows the House a photograph.]] This is indecent, and with this we have to finish, and we have to tell the Central Government from here high and clear that we don't stop this, which is enough, that this country and our youth deserve respect. And in that you won't give us any lesson, because we're going to defend the German train as we've been defending it for the rest of our life, by land, by sea and air, by road, by rail and whatever. And making demonstrations also by car if necessary, right, with the situation we have. And we'll do it as we did consistently here and in Madrid, Mr. Fernández Prado; which you can't say. I'm not going to remind you of all the changes in the position that you had in terms of infrastructures between what you said here and what you said in Madrid, that would give you a lot of literature; I would need a lot of interventions in this plenary to count all the trophies that you did, for example, with regard to AP-9. We want service recovery, but we want a lot more. We don't agree with that, we also want this country to have its own railway body, which has a nearby train as it deserves, that there is an extraordinary investment plan to correct all these inequalities. What he was asking for, by the way, in 2017 and 2018 is the Socialist Party; we hope to continue asking for it today. And for all this we ask for the support of this plenary...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u56	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u57	...not only to recover services, but to have a quality train, a modern train, a decent, safe and sustainable train for the 21st century. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u58	Thank you, Mr Bará. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u59	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. "In any case, I think that, as always, what it is about bringing this state competence is trying to confuse and generate noise with little technical basis. And I think in the case of Lugo-Ferrol, we're working on it now, because I think you deserve to have those same infrastructures as well. Mr. Torrado, you again bring to this chamber a matter concerning railway services that you know is not the responsibility of the Board. And they can bring it, I'm not saying it can't be brought, but you know that the most agile, the real agile would be to present this initiative directly at Congress." These words are not from Patricia Otero, these words are not from the Socialist Party, these are from Mr. Fernández Prado on May 22, 2018. How we've changed, gentlemen! [[Applause]] How we've changed! Because these words are four or five days before that black date, that dark date of June 1, 2018. Then, on May 22, Mr. Fernández Prado said to bring initiatives of state competences that were wrong. They said, of course, that each one was free to bring them. And I also tell you that they're in use of legislative initiatives to bring them, so... but I just wanted to do that punctualization of how we changed since June 1, 2018. But what is clear is that the socialists did not change, we did not change our position; we asked for railway improvements, we kept asking for railway improvements; we asked for them when we were in the opposition in Madrid and now that we are ruling in Madrid we also asked for them. We are consistent, we have not changed and, of course, we are going to support the two initiatives that today bring the debate, both that of the People's Party and that of the Galician Nationalist Block. But I want to remember that when we betrayed them to this chamber, you always voted that you didn't. So, I mean, it's sometimes good to have a little memory. Of course, you say you bring here a social cry. Yes, it's true, it's a claim, and citizenship is asking for railway improvements, but it's not a social cry for now, this has been coming for a long time. And Mr Bará is right. I mean, you were the ones who cut the most in the German railroad. He then said that the abolition of the sale of tickets seems to have only been present since now, but we have also brought to this chamber initiatives — our own companion Noela Blanco in 2017 — in which this situation was also denounced in several places in Ourense. In 2013, all trade unions also denounced the significant reduction in railway services for Galicia, especially for rural areas, the most isolated in the interior Galicia. From the villages and villages they reported that they would have fewer public services, they reported that stops were eliminated in stations, that so far, in addition to these low demand stations they had optional stops, so that if there were no passengers the train would not stop, so the saving of money and time was minimal. So this isn't since June 1, 2018, okay? He's been coming for a long time. It is to situate the debate a little, because, of course, Mr Prado said it was a topical issue, as the cuts suddenly appeared. It is that this is the consequence of everything that has been done before, because in those seventy-eight months that Mariano Rajoy ruled in Madrid. You talked about a lot of things and to attack the Government of Madrid dropped the AVE theme. Do you propose that a high-speed frame be put into operation without the Security Agency report? I repeat: do you propose that a high-speed frame be put into operation without the Security Agency report? [[Applause]] Sentiño and capiño, that we all know what these things can bring. The truth is, by reading what he asks for at the second point of his initiative, if we change the terms of "rail services" to "health services" is what we've been asking for a long time since the PSdEG, and you're also systematically voting against it. And maybe now it's about health services too. [[Applause]] Look: you are now very busy asking for works and better infrastructure on the railway, also the senators of the People's Party in my province, to set an example; but I also want to tell you that in seventy-eight months of Rajoy's government there has not been a single important work in the province of Lugo in terms of highways or railways, and now they're caught. And just by contrast: in two years of this socialist government, the modernization of the Ourense-Lugo railway line is already under way, by putting on a punctualization. We understand the demand for citizenship — we certainly share it — to have more and better rail services. From the Central Government it will continue to work to recover the services to complete the offer, because this would also be a good sign that Galicia is recovering from the health and economic crisis we are suffering. But I want to point out that what you're doing is progressively recovering services by meeting demand recovery. Data from the last week of September revealed that the occupation of medium-distance trains was 59%, and on long-distance trains the occupation was 60%. It is clear that during the alarm state, circulation has been drastically reduced because mobility has not been allowed, but since phase 3 they have been recovering, and today there are 300 and eight medium-distance trains that travel around Galicia every week. And because of the start of the academic course, they've increased to three thousand squarees every weekend in the Atlantic corridor. In addition, recently Renfe has invested 258 million euros in the purchase of trains to renew the fleet of the cantabria horn, which will also be noted on the Ferrol-Ortigueira-Ribadeo line. But I repeat, so that my words do not go wrong: we understand, share and defend — because we defended it before and we continue to defend it now — the demands of citizenship to have more and better railway services, but I think it was necessary to point out what is being done. The truth is we're being accused of hiding behind a health crisis, which is the excuse for dismantling railway services. From the People's Party they say we can't use that excuse for those cuts. The truth is we are faced with an unprecedented situation with this pandemic, but, of course, I don't know what excuses you could have in those seventy-eight months of Mariano Rajoy's government to constantly make those cuts. We were told: don't hide behind that pandemic crisis by the coward-19, but you don't know what kind of excuses they had to constantly cut down the railway services in Galicia. We — as Mr Bará said — in 2018 and 2017 ask for these improvements in those railway infrastructures, we continue to ask for them. We will therefore vote in favour of both initiatives. Because we don't change, we continue with our position and we will continue to demand the rail improvements to Galicia, to govern in Madrid or not to govern. Others can't say the same thing. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u60	Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The authors of the non-law proposition have the floor, first of all, on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Mr. Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u61	Thank you, President. Mrs. Otero, he said he was bringing a low-founded GNP. I encourage you to ask your neighbors of the Navy for the fever to see whether it has any basis or no basis, ask. Ask the neighbors of Lugo who have a train only to go to Madrid, ask calm. [[Applause]] I recognized that one can bring — thanks to God — initiatives that he considers appropriate. But I also say, what difference do we have then? We're so much worse than when we were talking back then. First thing. I wish! [[Murmurs.]] If what we're asking for, Mrs. Otero, is to get the same as three years ago or two, that's what we're asking for. [[Applause]] We didn't ask for the moon, we didn't ask for it. Same as two years ago. Mrs. Otero, why do we have to bring him in? To reinforce the request that we have already made in Madrid and that they have not listened to us, to strengthen the request of the Union, to strengthen the request to the Socialist Members who went to Madrid and returned empty-handedly. As they were, they came back! That is why we bring this to Parliament, so that the Galician Parliament can be heard. And it goes for what I know -- and I appreciate it -- to hear unanimously that Galicia demands that these services be recovered. We're not talking about big things, but getting the basic services back, which is what we're defending. But in addition to defending and voting — because it's the same thing the mayor of the Crown does: I vote everything and then everything is the same in Madrid — what we ask is less vote and more to do; more management. I encourage you to check those votes you were talking about. When it was necessary to defend the Greeks, the People's Party always voted in favour, always, defending that. And I encourage her the other way, Mrs. Otero, I encourage her the other way, Mrs. Otero. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u62	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u63	...who looks at and reviews the investments of Mariano Rajoy's entire era, with any year of these two, and execution as well. And I tell you the big difference...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u64	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u65	...the big difference...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u66	Yesterday Mr. Sobral asked for education and that they would let him speak, and I felt very timely yesterday — I say — yesterday. And I think this time we're asking for the same thing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u67	You have to fit, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u68	Oh, sorry! It was Mr. Lourenzo. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I was saying yesterday they asked for education and it was very timely your request, and today we ask you, too, please. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u69	You can review those investments. By the way, do you know there were worse investments than a pandemic, much worse? No, what was an economic crisis that you left us after eight years socialist... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u70	Mr. Torado. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Mr. Torado, please. He's got all the surgery interrupting. I'm asking you, please, to listen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u71	Take it easy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u72	He's got all the surgery interrupting.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u73	"When they steal, we walk." That's what Quixote said, Quixote! [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I heard... well! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u74	Mr. Torado, I call you in order for the first time. To you, yes to you. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Julio Torrado, I call you the order. Go on. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I'll call you in order. You're already warned. Yes, yes, you, there's no doubt about it. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u75	They check the investments these years after the biggest economic crisis in Spain's history that left us a socialist government, and we had to pay all the debts that they left for wasting the previous years and not attending it. Mr Bará, we will propose a transaction to incorporate your investment plan. Although — allow me — we didn't put it because we understood that it didn't matter, why would we put it if it's already in the PSOE-BNG agreement? We did it for sure. Just like every time I cross the highway, I say: no, I don't pay AP-9 today because BNG and PSOE have already bought it. Of all that was in the negotiation they didn't even do the first line, and there were things with date 2019, or the first before the pandemic. [[Applause]] Let me read the text as we speak of the train: modernising the inner network of the Galician railway, accelerating the modernization for the following three sections at least: The Coruña-Ferrol, The Coruña-Luco and Vigo-frontier portuguese, as well as electrification of Ourense and Lugo; modernization of the Ferrol-Xion line, and also acting in the commodities. The truth is, I can see you understand the left for modernizing. Modernize is to remove services, remove trains and remove frequencies. That's what you call modernizing. And selling tickets at the boats and the streets must also be modernized, so we take it off. That's what they call modernizing their agreement, because they deceive us. I know that the BNG signs this with good intentions, as always, but ultimately they always deceive. That's what happens. By the way, the merchandise corridor agreement was in 2011, Mr. Blanco, that was what he signed and signed. And the best, Mrs. Otero, is to set me as an example of the great works of this government the Ourense-Lugo frame. Everything that's done there is auctioned by Mariano Rajoy, everything!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u76	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u77	In any case, what I was saying to her is, we'll study this amendment, we'll try to make a transaction, even though we've already believed it wasn't necessary. But it's very important, and I thank you, the favourable vote of the groups because really...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u78	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u79	...which is a necessity—as it well said social, environmental, economic, of all kinds to Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u80	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. Fernández Prado, if you come to that transaction before the vote, I beg you to bring it in. Thank you. Mr Bará Torres has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u81	Mr. Fernández Prado, you said in your "less vote" speech. I don't know if it was a lapse, but we want to vote; we're in a democracy. What we need is less veto, that you won't see the agreements of this parliament when you go to Madrid, as happened with AP-9. [[Applause]] How can you talk here about AP-9 if you three times approve an AP-9 Transfer Act, unanimously? Yes, yes, and you went to defend her there. And what did your people vote for three years? First, they vetoed her, they didn't let her deal, presiding over Mrs. Pastor's Bureau, presiding over Mr. Rajoy's Government. You've seen the processing of these projects, and so we're now. So less veto. And, of course, your lack of ambition is absolutely scary, because you say here that what you want is to go back, back two years ago. We don't want to go back, we want to go forward, towards the future, bring a train from the future to this country. And that's why in our proposal, which is much more ambitious than yours, we're talking about many more issues than restoring services, which we also put. [[Applause]] And I want you to tell me if you're going to vote in favour of our proposals, because what you said here is unclear to me. First of all, on the line exactly that investment agreement, which is an agreement to comply with. Because that agreement was not signed with the Galician Nationalist Block, that agreement was signed with Galicia. And we expect the Government of the Socialist Party to abide by its agreements logically. Will you vote in favour of that extraordinary investment plan that this country deserves, taking into account that situation that we have described here, including that of the Navy fever, to which you referred, in which you have the highest responsibility for the Government of the People's Party? By the way, in all those years, why is the Navy train in that situation, the Ferrol-Ribadeo train, more than by rulings of the People's Party Government? And you're talking about investments from Mr. Rajoy's time. But one thing is what the budgets put in, another thing is what they executed. And there were more than two billion in four years without execution, which is the debt the state government has with Galicia that we want it to buy. That's what we need to talk about. By the way, speaking also of agreements, I have to remind you that if you have forgotten that, that the highest level of investments the Central Government ever had in Galicia in infrastructure was precisely when the BNG in Madrid had an agreement with the Socialist Party in 2008, more than two billion euros for infrastructure investments in Galicia. Maximum history, Mr. Fernández Prado. And I also want you to tell us here, voting, if you will defend — as we propose on our initiative — the creation of the German railway force. Because you presented an initiative in Parliament, you approved it at the Council of Meeting in 2010. They made a bid of 158,000 euros, which we don't know yet, because we asked for it in article 9, in which they threw that money. That study is supposed to be done. We want a conventional train, we want a nearby train, which is a right we have as gales and gales, as they have in Asturias, as they have in Cantabria, as they have in Euskadi -- well, there they already have the euskotren, a own train managed by the Basque Government -- as they have in Catalonia, as they do in the Valencian Community, as they have in Murcia, as they do in Andalucía, as they do in Madrid, as they do in Aragon. Don't we have a right for the Greeks and the Greeks to have a nearby train? The proximity train means more services and cheaper prices, and it means really betting measures by the train, as an alternative mode of mobility, sustainable, safe, healthy, in the future, which should also have an investment bet on European funds for recovery and reactivation. Are you in this position? Will you support our proposal? Will you ask how we propose in our initiative the transfer of competences to the internal railway network to create that railway body and manage from Galicia, logically, with all transfers of funds to fund the service and to improve the infrastructure and personnel to have that modern 21st century train that this country deserves? I want you to tell us if you're really going to be in a position of minimums, in an absolutely lack of ambition, of looking back, of getting back what was before, which is not enough, or of looking forward and really betting on that train that deserves this country. We're waiting for your answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u82	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Juan Carlos Francisco Rivera and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the foreseeable start of non-professional federal sports competitions in Galicia and the health demands arising from the covid-19
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u83	This motion for a non-law tabled two amendments: a self-amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group itself and an amendment of the Galician People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u84	Mr. Francisco Rivera has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u85	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. First of all, again, as I have done in the past, I would like to show at this moment the solidarity of the Socialist Group with all those affected by the pandemic, but very especially in Ourense province, where, as you know, very important restrictive measures are being taken, even of confinement, which affect the city and several villages. Today we were aware that special measures will be taken to reduce non-essential activity in Carballin and other towns in that province. It's a confinement that is actually being taken responsible, stoic and loyally by the whole of the province's citizenship, equally, even though this confinement leads to economic ruin to many small self-employed and small businesses. So in that sense, knowing that these are clinical decisions to be accepted, and therefore not to question, we tell Mr. Feijóo that the province of Ourense deserves a political explanation why these measures are taken. Ourense citizenship needs to know why such measures are being taken. And I say this because Mr. Feijóo saw him last week from Mrs. Ayuso's hand in Madrid questioning the decision made by the Government of the State regarding the declaration of the state of alarm in that city, in that community, and qualifying the fact of "constitutionalatipism". And I tell Mr Feijóo and tell all Members that the measures being taken in Ourense are much more restrictive than those taken in Madrid. So in Ourense there is also a state of alarm, in this case, covered. And we asked Mr. Núñez Feijóo to also use the public television channel, as he did when he was questioning day and day the measures that were being taken at an unprecedented time...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u86	Mr. Rivera, excuse me for a moment. I'm the one who runs the debate. Article 104...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u87	Yes, I'm going to the initiative now, but let me show you my solidarity with my neighbours...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u88	No, no, no, no. It's been two and a half minutes. No, I'll explain -- I'll stop her time, don't worry. Normally, Members come out and we can play a joke with any topic, indeed, and one's ability to join the debate because often it does not make it necessary or even any kind of explanation. But, man, in this matter, and you've already done it in the other debate, I ask you to stick to it. There's an article in the regulation that's the call to question. So I formally ask for a call on the matter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u89	Mr President, with due respect for the use of my speech as a Member, I believe that I must call on Mr Núñez Feijóo to establish direct and immediate aid to all the sectors affected in the province of Ourense which are being confined to a state of covert alarm. [[Applause]] Having said this, we have taken the initiative with your blessing, Mr. President. Indeed, we are now bringing an LNP, an initiative in which we are fully aware of the situation of sport in the Galician world, where we are aware of the difficulty in starting competitions at the same time in an autonomous field as a result of the pandemic situation in which we are and the difficulty of clubs, especially affected and autonomous, to account for a very demanding protocol for the start of competitions. We are also aware that the fundamental in this case is the health of the sportsman. So in this kind of question we're not going to try or confront any sort of thing with the Galician Union or Mr. Lete Lasa, even though we could do it, in the same way he does it with the Higher Council of Sports, obliging his responsibilities and disposing of that responsibility in the sphere of the State Government. We understand that the initiative is an initiative with a constructive tone. I've been talking to the People's Party Member — moreover, a person who's been involved in sports for many years. A proposal for consensus that seeks to launch autonomic competitions in Galicia, which is currently unreceptive as a result of a too demanding protocol, designed for professional sport and not specifically for autonomic sport, a physical-covid protocol approved by the Union, which is a basic picture of the one approved by the Higher Council of Sports but with even more restrictive measures, more demanding of the start of the competitions here in Galicia. It's a protocol that moves, at our trial, in an absolutely unjust way, all sorts of responsibilities towards club leaders in relation to the start of the competitions. We know that this protocol is published, that sports federations have to set up a methodology to apply these types of protocols. We are considering the possibility that sports federations, fulfilling the basis of that protocol, can adapt themselves to act within the framework of their social reality, their sporting reality and their economic reality. And, of course, we understand that in that consensus position, in that position of building the possibility that autonomic competitions should be initiated, it is necessary to take a step. In the field of non-professional federal sport, which is also performed in Galicia through various clubs, Mrs. People's Party — and president of a more professional than non-professional club, but which also has basic categories and also has subsidiary teams competing in the field of autonomics — he knows that this protocol is excessively demanding and needs adaptation. In that sense, we have been transferred uncertainties, concerns and a lot of complaints from the clubs — probably to the Galician Union and federations — in relation to the ability or possibility to initiate competitions. At the state level, a non-professional federal sportsman who competes at state level in the order of the Union is establishing a requirement for carrying out tests in order to be able to compete. At the same time, teams coming from other autonomous communities moving to Galicia to compete with Greek teams are required to carry out tests 24 to 72 hours before the start of the competition, which does not happen in other autonomous communities. And to the autonomic teams, to the competition itself autonomously, which has not yet begun in Galicia and which affects more than 100,000 sportsmen, the board's own order that develops the physical-covid protocol requires a series of measures that we understand, in relation to certain types of disciplines, that are absolutely impossible. We're talking about the use of the mask in the performance of sports activity. We understand that they are impossible in intensity sports, in team sports, in contact sports; we can talk about football, football room, rugby or any other discipline that involves contact, which involves intensity in sports activity. Faced with that situation, that imposition of the order of the Health Council, we understand that alternatives need to be put forward. Some federation, the football one, has raised some alternative possibilities, such as conducting tests. We're not against that possibility, it's a possibility. But here we find ourselves in the reality of clubs, in the reality of what I used to talk about, in the social, sports and economic reality of clubs. How are these tests financed, who finance them, who assesses and follows up these tests, where are the doctors to monitor and control and effectiveness of these tests? And in that sense, and in the need that many clubs have to know about and clear up uncertainties, worries about whether it's possible to start the competition or not, we propose this initiative, and we do so in addition to a consensus position, calling the groups to seek a solution in this sense, considering that the fundamental is the sport's health, but also considering that sport is an essential, important activity, the only activity probably hasn't been resumed since the alarm state, at least in the autonomic field, and that it is therefore important to get out of this club anxiety. Let us hope that the group's position is a consensus in this regard and that we can look for an alternative to allow the start of the competitions of the autonomic field, always taking into account the need for the help of the institutions for this to happen. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Francisco Rivera. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, you have the floor to Mrs Murillo Solis.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u91	Good morning. Good morning, gentlemen. Good morning, everyone. Good days after six months of stopping with the pandemic, six months in which the sports world was one of the activities, in this community as well as in the rest of Spain, where paralysis was total, because of force majeure. We are one of the most affected sectors in this country's economic activity. It is true — and thank you very much for the tone you have employed here today the new Member of the Socialist Party, who knows that you know the world of sport, who knows the world of football, who I know that you are a person involved and who wants consensus and seeks the best for sport, as we do want those of the world of sport – that sport is the subject where we can put aside a little what is the political ideology that makes us confront each other every day. I hope then that this legislation will have its opinion and collaboration permanently to achieve consensus that improves Galician sports fabric. [[Applause]] Sport is a scientifically accredited activity as a health benefit. Sport is the activity that moves thousands of people every weekend to different sports facilities in Galicia, people of any age who attend as practitioners, as assistants, as companions of these practitioners or as mere amateurs. An example of the importance of sport as a collaborative agent in social welfare is the reality that we find every day in many villages in Galicia. A large number of older people, who only leave their home to accompany their grandson to compete or to support the team of their heart. Sport is an activity that generates economic movement. Clubs, associations, gymnasiums, swimming pools, sports infrastructures and events daily activate important economic resources, those resources that have been paralysed — not forgotten — with the appearance of the pandemic. All the actors in the Welsh sport fabric are waiting for an answer on our part, on the part of the politicians, a useful, effective response, not cheap words that little fixes reality, quite confusing right now. That's what, as an active participant in Galician sports world, I perceive every day, in every conversation, every meeting, with sports people. These people need, more than ever, information and help. Decision-making is not easy, responsibility is a lot, and unanimity is low. I understand that this account is common to all those who in some way work for the Greek sport. Starting from these premises, I hope that after my intervention we can actually achieve a consensus that is good for sport in general, for clubs and sportsmen in Greece. His non-law proposal was presented in this parliament on 27 August of this year, five months after the most important and lethal pandemic of the 21st century, when the Government of Spain was still unable to carry out the protocol directed to regulate non-professional federal sport of State competence. You at that time urged Junta to carry out a protocol for non-professional sport, while forgetting that many Galician clubs — as you know, my own — were still waiting for the Spanish Government protocol to find out what we're getting into in connection with the start of the state competitions. Those non-professional clubs that by luck or ability were able to achieve higher categories probably with more expenses and more needs to you at that time didn't worry. In his initiative he dares to qualify the Secretary-General for the sport of incapacitated and inoperative politically and administratively, when the only government that went on vacation and did not have to convene the CSD until September 11th was the Government of Mr. Sánchez. Just remind him that in this parliament, in the field of sport, we try to reach agreements avoiding disqualifications, so I urge you from now on to lower your tone when we speak in the next speeches. [[Applause]] It is true that your intervention today has little to do with the initiative you have, so I really appreciate the change and moderation that I think we're going to have throughout the legislation. It is true that, months later, the health restrictions imposed have been lifted for certain activities. Our sports activities were the last ones, still partially restricted. The protection of the health of our sportsmen, our amateurs, our children, the sports people, is above all. The Galician Union has signed a protocol, mentioned by you, in June, to facilitate training and sports without contact so that it can start the preparation of our sportsmen towards the start of national and international competitions, as suggested by Galician sports agents in the face of the improvement of the pandemic at that time. This protocol should be added individually, depending on its particularities, each of Galicia's sports federations; so they did almost all of them. He did fifty-six of fifty-eight; then they did the work. Already in September, more specifically from the 19th, in which the 17th Order is published, and with which certain measures are amended under the June Round Agreement, it is possible that federal sport practice with contact in Galicia, so since then federations have begun to work on protocols adapted to the new demands of competition. You urge Union, but the Union has done its job. Contact team sport has already been authorized by the Board, that is, with security measures that guarantee the health of the participants. Now, as you know, each federation will make its proposals and adaptation protocols, because, as organizers of sports competitions by delegation of the administration, they are aware of the possibilities, interests and needs of the sports agents they represent, and they can better adapt the protocol to their competition disciplines than anyone else. In just over a month, of the eight team sports federations, four have already approved the protocols, two have made demands, and the last two, the remaining two, which are hockey grass and football, have presented their protocols two days ago in the Galician Union Register. By focusing on the operative part of your proposal, I can tell you that on Monday you self-imposed your initiative. You originally asked Join a protocol to regulate non-professional competitions. In his amendment, he limits what he asks of the Union. He just asks you to regulate non-professional autonomic competitions. It was good to self-amend, because it's impossible for the board to regulate something about which it has no competence. But sometimes it's all worth the paper. Telling you today, too, it's incongruent to urge the board to do something that's already done. On September 19th, the non-professional federal team sport in autonomic competitions was already allowed in Galicia. I have already advanced the state of processing and approval of the various protocols of the German team sports federations, based on this protocol of the Union, so point 1 I think it makes no sense to accept it. In connection with the second point of your proposal, you will have our full support. The Galician board, the General Secretariat for Sport and this parliamentary group are aware of the difficult situation of non-professional sports clubs and associations in Galicia, which have completely stopped their activity last March, without much resources outside their own competition. The General Secretariat for Sport is doing a great job, in permanent contact with sports federations, listening directly and daily to clubs and sometimes even mediating between clubs and health authorities in search of a solution appropriate to the current health situation. I think, Your Honor, that we can achieve a consensus that puts upon the table its proposal and our own, to urge the Higher Council of Sports of the Government of Spain, through the Council of Galicia, and the same Council of Galicia, for the competences that both have on non-professional sport, to speed up the adoption of specific lines of help to alleviate the crisis generated by the coward-19 for a sector like that of sport, which never asks and always waits. I take this opportunity to announce to you, Madam, that this parliamentary group will present to the Commission, which has recently been created in this Parliament, proposals for economic reactivation that put the world of sport in value as an important engine of the Greek economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u92	Thank you very much, Mrs. Murillo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Castro García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u93	Thank you very much, President. Good morning. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, Mrs. Murillo, wish Pontevedra the best of luck. I hope we have a Second Division or first round. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And also, if I may — and taking some advantage of the sense of this initiative — both Mr Rivera and Mrs Murillo — will know well about this, I would like to remember and value this voluntary and tireless work, which often leads to more disgust than joy, than many men and women, aunts, fathers and grandparents, brothers and sisters, have done, do and will do in our country by creating sports schools, helping with sports material, doing trainers and trainers many times, and, of course, above all being the ones and drivers that many boys and girls like me have been lucky enough to have and that thanks to them and that we could enjoy sport; the truth is, in my name and in the BNG, many thanks, that I have never been very recognized. [[Applause]] But today we come here to talk about the Socialist Party's initiative on the need to create a protocol of action for federal sports competitions of an autonomous nature, and which, in the same way, provides non-professional sports clubs in order to meet the demands that cause it. And the truth is that since the BNG, this initiative seems very necessary to us, and in this case we are talking about sports -- but we could be talking perfectly about any other subject, because the lack of investment and the slowness in the creation of protocols can say that they are a little the brand of the People's Party's house, because in this issue there are no better ones. And, as Mr Rivera has well said, it can't be that after six months of pandemic we're still out of protocol, but for protocols there has to be a job behind it, and, more importantly, there must be a Greek government that exercises its powers. But we can't have a Greek government that defends basic sport and non-professional sport if such a government doesn't give it the necessary relevance and the importance that sport has for our society. And it becomes necessary to remember, to talk about the importance of sport. Sport is very important for the development of children and girls, boys and girls — those who are responsible for all the infections and for being in Galicia and at universities. Well, whether it's in terms of health, whether it's in terms of social relationships, as in terms of education, sport has a terriblely positive impact on them and on them. [[Applause]] Sport is also very important because it is important to remember that every euro invested in it is a spending that saves itself in health; and that is not what I say, this is perfectly known and told by all existing scientific studies. Sport is also very important in terms of work because, as you know, it gives work to thousands of people in our country, jobs that hang on to a thread, because how is it possible that these jobs are kept if sports clubs don't have the money needed to start the seasons this year? And it is that sport gives work, sport influences our economy, and for this reason it is also necessary to save it, but for good or bad, it needs the economic support of the Galician Union. Because we have to be realistic. If they really want to save sport and they want basic sport to survive, that non-professional sports clubs survive and, ultimately — in short — that non-professional sport survives, it has to be with the economic support of the Galician Union — there is no other way — because without such support what are created are surrealist situations — which have already been commented upon — in which clubs cannot compete because they cannot bear the costs of security measures. And before that it is possible — as I think they have already done — that since the People's Party we are told that we are already being given the means to deal with such measures. But what can't be is that such means are insultingly ridiculous, please! And it is that sport cannot be seen as an economic sector anymore, sport is necessary for a society to be fair, democratic and healthy, so the policies of the People's Party cannot be guided by economic criteria, because, as I said, investing in sport is saving health, but not that kind of savings that you carry out. But now we are talking about the protocol of autonomous action in federal sports competitions, more specifically in regard to team sports — we must highlight, of team sports —. Let's see, in March, April is also worth it, and in May you can understand it, but that we are at the end of October and we are still without a clear and meridian protocol that I think is no longer admissible. And we have to be clear and clear, to see: will you have to compete with masks? Are you going to do fast tests? What are you going to do, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? They tell us, because the sports federations have already communicated to us — and they have made us see in three media — that they are desperate, they have already openly demonstrated their discontent. That's why we'd like to know what they're going to do with team sports, and there's no excuse for this. Because if today's sports clubs in team sports don't have a clear and meridian track of action and they don't have enough economic means, it's because they don't want to. And the truth is, I'm quite happy, the truth is, because -- I've already written here -- I have to admit that, please, they didn't start with the pim pam pum, with the Madrid-Galiza tennis party, Galicia-Madrid; I see that at least at the beginning of these interventions they haven't done it; I bless them, because they're getting a little tired and I hope they don't do it later. Because it must be remembered that we have not seen the German Parliament as the spectators and spectators, as I have already said, of a tennis or table tennis — which they prefer. We haven't come here to see who's more or less guilty of this or the other, we've come here to find the solutions this country and its people need, in this case in the field of sport. [[Applause]] I am not going to lengthen much longer, so I conclude by saying that for all this and as we believe these measures are necessary for our sport, we advance our vote in favour of this initiative, with the will that both basic sport and non-professional sport contain with the necessary means to be able to exist. Thank you very much and I urge you to continue with this consensus to save our sport. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Castro. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Francisco Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u95	Yes, good day again. First of all, I appreciate the position of the BNG in this respect, understanding the sense of the initiative, and finally understanding that we have to get out of this country's basic and amateur autonomic sport and that it is necessary, in the end, to make protocols appropriate to its own reality and also to help economically. And I must also thank the honourable Member of the People's Party, who knows about the difficulties that exist in the field not only professionally, where it is installed or could be installed at some point — and I hope at the time they get to professional football again — but also knows football and autonomic sport, basic sport, amateur sport, because they have basic categories. What we put forward in the initiative — indeed, it is from August — is that the protocol put forward by the Council of Galicia is an absolutely unacceptable protocol; a protocol, finally, designed for professional sport itself, where it did not assume its own responsibilities to the Council of Galicia and already delegated the responsibilities directly to the clubs, where it made it impossible for the team competition sport to establish a distance measure which was then saved with different orders in the field of non-professional sport, by conducting tests, indeed, and in the field of autonomous sport with the establishment and obligation to impose for its competitiveness a mask. We understand, picking up the feeling of hundreds of clubs that are published, and in addition to getting close to us, and probably to you too, that is responsible for some sports federation, that let you know that this is unmanageable. And in the face of that, alternatives have to be put forward, and alternatives are probably going through the adoption of type-test protection measures to be financed. And here's got to be the autonomous administration, in the field of autonomic sport, and in the field of professional sport, also the state, and the non-professional, at the Higher Council of Sports. There's a margin. The Galician Union must also innovate on these kinds of issues. Within the Basque Country, Igape's own Igape-like institute also includes specific lines of help for sport, clubs, funding lines for non-profit associations. Why don't you do the same here with Igape? That is a logical approach that does not affect this initiative, which we will also consider in the corresponding commission, just as in the plenary. But it's necessary to provide the sport of funding mechanism, and I think we also agreed on that. And we agree with the need to fund the sport from Galician Union in this exceptional situation, the measures that sport needs to start its competitions. As far as your amendment is concerned, I think we can get into a transaction. Let's talk about it. At one point we will bring you to the Presidency of the House, if that transaction is possible. We don't see it wrong, we see there's a meeting point and we can move on. I want it to be positive for the sake of sport, especially of autonomic sport, of basic sport, of amateur sport. If we would also like those new protocols that are being adapted from the sports federations, the physical-covid protocol, to be flexible from the Galician Union, to the extent that it is the final recipient of these protocols and, therefore, that it has to authorize them, the demands on the responsibilities that the leaders of the clubs have to assume. It would be important to assume a co-responsibility in this area. Having said this, let us hope that this tone that you thank me and I too — and especially the Member of the BNG — will continue to be maintained in this kind of initiative. Thank you very much and nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Francisco Rivera. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We moved on to the next non-law proposal. Non-legislative proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Pontón Mondelo and eighteen other Members, on the demands to be made by the Greek Government to the Central Government in relation to the situation of Alcoa in San Cibrao, the approval of an electro-intensive consumer status and the creation of an electric tariff in Greece
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u97	This motion for a non-law amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and by the People's Group of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u98	Mr. Castro García has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u99	Thank you very much again, Mr. President. Good morning again, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, if I may, I would like to greet the workers and workers of Alcoa and the assistants who accompany us today and who unfortunately cannot be here any closer to us. On behalf of me and BNG, move and thank you for your work and, like all the Navy, tell you that you are an example of a struggle. Thank you very much. We'll follow you. [[Applause]] Since the BNG we have brought this initiative to debate here today for a very clear purpose: that the Galician Parliament calls upon the Union and the Central Government to intervene in a public manner that prevents more than a thousand workers and workers in the Navy from getting unemployed and that is how the death record of our region is signed. Because that's what's at stake right now — you have to point it out. Alcoa has already made it clear in his ERE what his intentions are: to fire 524 workers and to stop the tanks, there is no more. And in front of Alcoa, the beautiful words and the articles of opinion are of no use. The Government of the State and the Union have in their hands the only solution: a public intervention. Because the solution is not in the trial, no, it's in the Board of Ministers and the Council of Ministers. And by the way — take it into account — time runs and we're at a decisive moment, more than ever. Last week, already through a BNG PNL, Congress was already standing on this issue. Today it is necessary and more important for the Parliament of Galicia to do so, sending a clear mandate to the Union and the Central Government: we must intervene now. Because we're on October 21st and there's already four months of protests, of mobilization, of strike, of people claiming a quick solution for The Navy. And in the face of this dramatic situation, it can't be that he's playing indefinitely or inviennes, like we're putting on this Saturday. We found ourselves with statements by the secretary of industry in the face of intervention, Monday the minister said otherwise and so could we apply it to the advisor in this house. It's not serious, it's never been, but much less when you're playing with the future of the Welsh industry. So don't tell us that public intervention is not possible. Because I'd like to ask you: Was it impossible for Merkel with Lufthansa? Was it impossible for the Portuguese Government? Or was it impossible for the Italian Government, who thus saved an aluminium factory that Alcoa wanted to close in Sardinia? The impossible is not a public intervention and a nationalization of the factory, the impossible is to believe that, in a context where a multinational has already made the decision that one wants to go, in which it says openly, in which it communicates the cost of redundancies and in which it even puts on the table the names of all the workers and workers of the company who go to the street, the solution will happen because Alcoa, by magic, will sit down again to negotiate with the company interested in the purchase. [[Applause]] That's impossible, we have to be honest and realistic, so we ask them to stop playing with the people of the Navy, forgetting about the political shuttles and deciding to move on to action once and for all. Because it's enough of harmless threats, it's enough for a multinational to laugh — with all the letters — to laugh at two governments like the German and the Spanish. And, as long as it's enough of such outrage, they must put an end to the suffering of an entire region by intervening the industrial complex of San Cibrao. They have the examples, they have the means, they now lack only the most important; they know perfectly well what it is: political will. Because they must have something very clear: the solution to this problem -- I told them -- will not be found in the judges. The Alcoa crisis is a political problem and, as such, obviously requires political action, because they must not think that the solution will dictate it to a judge or a judge. The solution — I repeat — is found in the Council of Ministers and Ministers and among the advisers and advisers. That is why we are bringing this initiative here to the Greek Parliament today. And it is that the Greeks and the Greeks deserve that the institution in which they are represented and represented by the example and, above all, establishes a clear mandate for the Greek Government to put already on the table a public intervention that saves the production of primary aluminium. And this process, I said, needs speed. The workers, the workers, the families, the region of the Navy, our country can't stand any longer. This intervention has to be done now, already, because we're not in the time fixed or in the extension, we're at the last penalty, we have to intervene now, but already, and give hope to thousands of people who have the heart in a fist because if you're playing their future. Remember: public intervention is legal, it is viable, and at this moment the most important is that it is the only alternative possible. And well, in addition to all this, in these ten minutes I could also talk about and take a lot of my time to talk about the need to finally have an electro-intensive consumer status that actually poses a solution for the electro-intensive industry sector, of course. It is necessary, we must have a statute that guarantees a stable, predictable and assumed price. So, as we've been claiming a lot of time, we have to have a Greek electricity tariff that costs electricity for both companies and individuals. And in this we could also talk a lot of long and tender time, about the responsibilities of PP and PSOE in this frame. But all of this now has a secondary role, no matter what, let's leave it behind, let's leave it behind, because the first thing we have to do is save the more than a thousand jobs from the industrial complex of San Cibrao. Because first of all, we have to save the Navy's comarca. Because if this territory becomes an industrial waste, where it is on its way — and it has been on this road for many years — these policies will be worth little by little. And they're late. The Government of the People's Party usually, unfortunately, is late, but it has the last opportunity to save an important element, very important, of the little industrial fabric that remains in our country. So we ask them again: don't fail again, they're up to the political moment we need. And since we're remembering a little bit, we can come back fifteen days ago, in which in this chamber Mr. Feijóo — although he's not, I know he's ruling — answered a question from the spokesman of the BNG, of Ana Pontón, about the future of Alcoa, said a great truth. "He's ruling, yes, okay, please let me speak." [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He said a great truth -- we know it -- because when Feijóo tells truths, BNG recognizes it. He said he always defended Alcoa. Imperishable, i.e., we don't deny it; all right. The president of this country defended the interests of Alcoa, but what needs to be defended is the interests of workers and workers, who create wealth. It's enough to be the mediator with the companies. [[Applause]] It's over. It's been too long to send more than governments, more than governments. It was done by a company that was public in exchange for a misery and acted as a company that took advantage of the labor of Galicia and the nature of our country and took advantage of weak governments that anticipated the benefit of these multinationals to the benefit and prosperity of our country. So I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, we end this infamy. We asked them. We dignify this institution, value our country and save the Navy from its end. So, with all this said, we expect your collaboration and your support for this initiative, and, as I said a couple weeks ago, I repeat: make it clear, the Navy didn't fail, you don't do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Castro. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We now turn to Mr Seco García's Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, begin my speech by showing them all the support of the workers at the Alcoa plant in San Cibrao, who some are listening to us today from this house, to ensure and to seek and continue to work in a solution that guarantees both industrial activity and job maintenance at the factory. And let me, in addition, send the same message to the workers of Alu Iberiana in the Coruña, colleagues in front of him who speaks to them, industrial worker, and who must not be forgotten by us or by the Government of Greece in a factory that has also produced and can produce primary aluminum and that needs administrations so that the emptying of an investor is not fulfilling the commitments made to the workers in the eyes of the administrations. By the way, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, they transmit to Vice-President Conde that from the works committee they are waiting for a meeting promised by the adviser to take the relevant actions in the face of the continuing breaches of the company's leadership and the serious work failures, and the continuing, perhaps, daily complaints to the Labour Inspectorate, which make it necessary for the Government to act. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, do not do as in the case of San Cibrao waiting until the end to see how an industrial activity is destroyed simply by blaming others while they hide their incompetences — I would say — in industrial matters. They are part of the solutions and do not wait until the last moment aligned with the position that is more comfortable for companies that want to close our factories. We are at a tremendously important moment for the San Cibrao plant — all we know — now that at last it seems that we are all aligned in what really matters, that we leave the banner and the electoral campaign to have a joint strategy against the true enemy, which is a company like Alcoa, which all we want is to relocate the production of aluminium outside Spain and continue to maintain the monopoly to sell in our territory. That's why the Socialist Party has tabled a replacement amendment to the initiative presented by the BNG with a text that has already been adopted in the Congress of Deputies by all the groups we are represented here in the House, which has abandoned maximalist positions and put the focus on really important, which is the maintenance of industrial activity and the jobs of a region like The Navy that needs this activity to survive, because, after thirty-four of the 40 years of autonomy governed by the People's Party, we see how it has not been affixed to make a policy of promoting and boosting industrial activity, which leaves the Navy without industrial alternatives in its territory. And our amendment says that the Board continues to work together with the Government of the State in the application with the greatest possible brevity of how many measures are necessary, including temporary public intervention, for its subsequent sale to a private investor that guarantees a viable industrial project for the maintenance of industrial activity and jobs at the Alcoa factory in San Cibrao. It is taken from the agreement of all these groups, those we are present here, in the Congress of Deputies and it is adapted to this institution, because here it has to be a joint work, which at last seems to be doing both the administrations, so that both the Council of Galicia and the Government of the State will do the work that is expected, each in its own areas. And yesterday the company committee issued a communiqué to ask for precautionary measures to the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia to prevent the stopping of tanks during the duration of the process of challenging collective dismissal and while there is no firm judicial judgment, and in a subsidiary way that Alcoa is ordered not to execute individual redundancies and, consequently, that it does not proceed to stop production of aluminium at the factory or in the electrolysis tanks. Together she must also do her job in the field of work to make it easier for her to paralyze this ERE. And after seeing how the ministry has made it public that it will be claimed by the State, for a value of EUR 50 million to Alcoa, it is now also up to the Board to take action in the environmental field to demand the continuing environmental non-compliances unleashed by Alcoa over the last few years. In this work we must all be together: Together, Government and parliaments — this too, ladies and gentlemen —. The solution goes through a plant sale, and for that, we all have to scratch our shoulder. Let's not try to put the car down before I drink it, Mr. Castro. The pressure of the workers and the proximity of the Navy to their mobilizations is commendable and essential, but political representatives expect more than a T-shirt and shout "Cuba yes, Americans out." The political solution we have to look for in institutions, not in performances and talking about nationalizations, without saying how disbursing all citizens can make that decision and the legal security of such silent action. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and BNG, we have time to talk about a temporary public intervention, if we get to that point. That's why it's included in that amendment if it's necessary, but it's very shocking lately to hear how we talk about nationalizations as a solution to all problems; well, nationalizations is to put the so-called Greek absolutely at all, and that's supposed to come up with the solution; and, yes, then we have to see unfortunately how large companies of Greek capital are acquired by foreign companies. We nationalize Alcoa; I suppose we also have to nationalize Alu Iberian; but I also suppose we have to nationalize Xeal and Ferroglobe, which are in an important problem; we can nationalize Emesa; we can also nationalize Madeira Churches or Thenaissie. And at the same time, we can continue to demand the reduction of taxes, a reduced VAT, help the unemployed, the self-employed, companies at risk, we can demand a high-quality train, we can ask that highways have no fees, etc., etc., etc. And so everything, it all fits, all by saying what everyone wants to hear, but responsibility, zero; total, or I don't govern or the guilt will be others who are on the other side... Much more is expected of politics and politicians than populist messages, and, on this path, gentlemen, we are not surprised by the success of those who arrive at politics by talking about magic solutions and accepting everything they propose. [[Applause]] You're making a trap. They speak first of press articles as if they were the solution — no, of course they are not the solution — but then they lie shamelessly trying to confuse public opinion I do not know whether by ignorance or by self-interest to compare the situation of Alcoa with the situation of Lufthansa. It's incredible almost saying that the German government nationalized Lufthansa when it's all the opposite, absolutely the opposite. Lufthansa was assisted by the German Government to buy shares to save the company, but at the request of the company itself, not because a company wanted to close its facilities. So we really should not confuse public opinion with the entry into the shareholdership — by the way — which the current government of the State has offered to Alcoa — with what is done elsewhere. We're deceiving public opinion with a question that should be more serious for those we're here and that we should know because I think a little bit more. Germany did not nationalize Lufthansa, Germany came out at the rescue of Lufthansa at the company's own request to save her. It would be desirable that the message that we transmit today is that of a unit of action, that workers know that they have the People's Party, the BNG and the Socialist Party concerned and working around for a solution, that we have to put an irresponsible company and its blackmail against the ropes, that their strategy is not going to work well to try to take the hair of our institutions in the body of the workers of the Navy and the Crown, that in this country we respect the laws and we are reliable for the international community, but that in no case we will accept that the sovereignty of those who want to do business at the cost of our citizens' lives will be questioned. [[Applause]] Accept the amendment, ladies and gentlemen, let us all address it together in the search for solutions, take all possible steps to achieve the sale of an investor who wishes to continue with an activity essential to our territory. And if the case comes up, of course, there will be a temporary public intervention, to allow that sale, but don't put the car before the ox or look for magic solutions to something that must try to achieve by helping our governments to carry out all possible initiatives to pressure a multinational who is acting irresponsiblely with our citizenship and with a neighborhood like that of the Navy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Seco. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia, Mr Tellado Filgueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u103	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Seco, you've been able to approach the positions of the Galician People's Party and the Galician Nationalist Block. I have to tell you that your intervention leaves us very concerned, frankly, after what we have heard not from the PSdEG-PSOE industry spokesman in this chamber, but probably from the Spanish Government spokesman in the Galician Parliament. His position in relation to what we propose in the amendment is worrying, because his amendment and ours is identical. What do we propose in our amendment? It's identical, the writing is the same; yes, Mr. Seco, read it; the writing is the same. [[Mr. Seco García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] What do we propose? Alcoa's temporary public intervention, for his subsequent sale; exactly the same as the company committee demands. And you came here to propose a amendment that speaks of temporary public intervention and at the same time criticizes it in its intervention. So what do we have to stay with? That's the PSdEG-PSOE game and that's the government of Spain game, unfortunately. Before I begin, I want to move once again our support, our solidarity, our absolute commitment by the Galician People's Party to the Alcoa workers and the entire Navy to shine. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, neither the Navy nor Galicia deserve the behavior of Alcoa, who is having the company. From the People's Party in Galicia we want to censor clearly the bad faith of the company, the bad faith with which the company is acting in this entire negotiation process, making it clear that its true intention, probably, was never to allow the sale of Liberty House, but only to delay deadlines, first to agree to negotiate and then to refuse to reach agreements. It seems that the only concern for Alcoa was, first of all, having no competitors in our country and, secondly, punishing the workers and their families for the inaction of the Government of Spain, for the inaction of the Government of Pedro Sánchez, for the last two years. Because if anything is true, Alcoa is paying his employees the abandonment, the desire, the incompetence, the neglect of the Government of Spain, the Government of Pedro Sánchez, a government that made deaf ears to all the warnings we have come to make. [[Applause]] Do you know what's going on, Mr. Seco? It's happened what we've been sad enough years saying would happen. And I don't like to use that "we told you." But that's true, we've already told him. We've been warning you for two years that if the Government of Spain did not approve an electro-intensive industry statute that would allow and set a competitive price for the electro-intensive industry in our country, two years, the electro-intensive companies would be turning to closure. That's the reality, that's the only truth. What's our goal? Our objective is of course: that no one should be released, that the tanks should not be stopped, that Galicia should continue to manufacture primary aluminium and that a buyer should be found for the Navy plant, and if necessary — and we believe that it is necessary, necessary, not, inevitable — to proceed to the company's temporary public intervention for its subsequent sale. That's what we stand for with total clarity. And today we bring an amendment to the initiative of the Galego Nationalist Block, which really talks about nationalization, to approve an electro-intensive industry status and the Welsh electric tariff. We propose is the company's temporary public intervention for its subsequent sale. This is the agreement we reached at the Congress of Deputies last week between the People's Party, the Socialist Party and the Nationalist Block of Wales. What we propose is to build a great consensus, and that's why we present this same initiative, with the aim of being useful, to be useful, to be useful to Galicia and to solve the doubts that it weighs on those 534 families that see the black future, not, absolutely, in the absence of a government in Spain that for two years could prevent this situation and not do it. Look, we asked the Government of Pedro Sánchez the same thing we asked the governments of Mariano Rajoy and Rodríguez Zapatero. The difference is that the governments of Mariano Rajoy and Rodríguez Zapatero, when there were price problems, took the measures necessary to resolve the situation and for two years this situation has been reproduced and the Government of Spain has heard deaf ears. Look, don't expect us a pact of silence about what happened up here, don't wait for it. We want a unanimous agreement from this chamber, just as there was last week at the Congress of Deputies, but that the PSdEG-PSOE and the Socialist Party do not expect a pact of silence from us. We want to talk about how it got here and why we got to this situation: two years without approving the status of the electrointensive industry. A statute, by the way, with which we were repeatedly deceived, because it was the electoral weapon of the PSdEG-PSOE and the Socialist Party of Pedro Sánchez in two general elections, in April and November. He promised before the April elections, after the April elections, he promised before the November elections, and he promised after the November elections. What happened? That they didn't approve. Look, we asked the Government of Spain exactly what other European governments did to ensure the viability, the competitiveness of the electro-intensive industry in the rest of Europe. The difference is that other governments have adopted solutions and what happened in Spain is that the Government of Pedro Sánchez has done nothing, nothing, in the last two years. So what is the speech, Mr. Seco, that you came here to express in this chamber, what is your speech? What is the problem with the Government of the Union, as if the powers of the energy price depended on the Autonomous Community? It's just that this is an exclusive competition from the Government of Spain. Who's he trying to fool? Do you guys want to fool yourselves? Look, the socialist government took advantage of the pandemic to systematically attack the Welsh industry, speeding up the closure of the thermal power plant of the Bridges while we were all confined at home, leaving behind the rail yards of Ferrol, attacking the sea transformation industry located in maritime-terrestrial domain now through the Climate Change Act and leaving at stake the entire electrointensive industry in our country. That's the government of your party. The Board, however, did act. The Board has acted that it has agreed with other autonomous communities to give the work done to the Government of Spain. Here was a draft of the statute of electrointensives that the autonomous communities made and gave it to the Government of Spain. What did the Government of Spain do? Throw it in the trash can. That's the only reality. I to the BNG—and I hope not to disturb the possibilities of agreement—I have to tell you, what have you done all this time? Well, he made Pedro Sánchez president. And that is the capital sin that will accompany them over the next few years. Because this situation is the fault of the Government of Pedro Sánchez and Pedro Sánchez took you to Moncloa with his vote. And, therefore, by making president who created this problem, doing what they did, because they didn't, the fact is that you are also responsible, along with the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, for the situation in which we found each other. I have to remind you that in January 2020 BNG, with its vote, took President Sánchez in exchange for a supposed solution for the electrointensive industry, because in that document they signed there, it was that, by supporting Sánchez, they would solve all of Galicia's problems. Here is the picture of that great pact, a pact of height, signed between Ana Pontón and Adriana Lastra. You, day and day also, claim that great deal, that "country deal," as we heard from a member of the BNG. And I have to tell you that this deal is wet paper. They laughed at you, and you laughed at the Greeks by claiming this agreement which ultimately did not solve anything, either for the intensive industry or for any of the problems that this document intended to solve. This pact was so important that at the end it was signed by Ana Pontón with Adriana Lastra, a state pact, a country pact. No, no, Pedro Sánchez didn't sign it, they didn't sign it with the ministers of the Government of Spain, they didn't even sign it with the secretary general of the party. It was with Adriana Lastra, "the Ana and Adriana pact," that pact that really doesn't solve any problems in Galicia. Twenty-four years of political career of Ana Pontón in this Parliament to sign an agreement with Adriana Lastra! Noraboa! Noraboa! And, look, you know what happened at the end? [[Applause]] That the PSOE laughed at the BNG, that the PSOE laughed at the BNG and didn't meet the first of the lines. Our position is clear, our position is always the one, our position is that Central Government and the German Government work together to plant towards the company, to plant towards Alcoa, to defend the 534 jobs, to defend that the tanks are not stopped, to get the sale to a new investor who is interested in manufacturing primary aluminum. But the sale doesn't solve everything, because we can sell Alcoa, we can sell the Navy plant to an interested investor, but, if there's no electrointensive status, that company will be shut down.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u104	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u105	And, therefore, we are going to work from the People's Party in Galicia, from the majority parliamentary that supports the Government of Greece, to defend the interests of the workers of Alcoa and the whole region. We tabled this amendment which reflects exactly what the company committee demands and which we have just personally handed over to all groups in a letter with the exact wording, which you approved this week by the Congress of Deputies and which we propose in our amendment. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Castro García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u107	Thank you again, President. Mr. Dry, I exactly said "cubas yes, Yankees no," but I repeat, eh! And we keep thinking the same thing here and in the Navy. And of course -- it's, of course -- that we're going to claim a fair train, a vertebrate Galician, a strong industrial fabric. [[Applause]] Because for that people voted for us. If we didn't come here to claim the best for this country, what did we see? We came here to fight, to have the best of the Galicians possible. Let's see, now let's get Mr. Tellado to talk about the status of electrointensives. I've already told you that we have plenty of time to talk about the implications of the PP and the Socialist Party in it, but we're not going to. And it's not because we don't want to, uh! Although, as I have already said, we could speak long and tender of their responsibilities in the legislation of the electricity sector — and I can stress what happened in 2013 — we prefer to focus on what the Greek citizen claims to us, which is to get the Greek Government clearly affixed by Alcoa's public intervention. Because while the Socialist Party and the People's Party are still here — before, on the sport initiative, there was not enough thanks — on the initiative to save Alcoa, with the battle Madrid-Galiza, with the tennis party, the "pim, pam, pum", to see who does more and who does less, because, while they do that, the workers who are seeing us, the workers and workers who are in the Navy, are still on the street. So they work and get that intervention. [[Applause]] And we're talking about the immediate, the present, saving jobs, but this is also a measure of the future. And you have to understand that, because if tomorrow's industrial complex of San Cibrao isn't still there, what's the future of the marine girls and boys? For the answer is very easy: an even less hopeful future than today; a future which means emigration, emigration and more emigration — like the one of all the young and young people who had to leave this country — so we must bear in mind that the fact of saving the immediate guarantees us the future. And, as I said, for the sake of the Navy and this country, we are going to accept the amendments, we are going to propose a transaction in accordance with the rule and the debate in Congress, and that you go on that line, whether or not you will accept it or not, you will apologize. But, of course, we'd like him to come much further. As I've already told you, the workers and the Alcoa workers can't wait any longer. What you have to put on the table, and what workers and workers ask us, is the maintenance of jobs, which is what you live and what you eat. Because without industry there is no future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Castro. Since there are many possibilities of transaction, I pray you that those initiatives with which a transaction can be reached will arrive before the vote. Let's go now with the latest initiative. There's less time left, but to make the vote easier, if they can get us there, much better. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Julio Torrado Quintela and two other Members, on the action to be taken by the Government of Galicia in order to enable the reversion to the municipalities of the title of the port lands when their use for purposes related to the port is residual or non-existent and are likely to be municipal use
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u109	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u110	To formulate the motion not of law, Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u111	Thank you, President. Well, today we are proposing an initiative which is not the first time brought to this Parliament but which we believe we need to debate again, because we look for a certain basis for us to come to an understanding. And we say "with a certain basis" because the People's Party has changed its position in this Parliament. Let's see if it's up to the end or if we can at least reach an intermediate agreement. What are we talking about on this initiative? We deal with land that is in the villages, in the marine villages of all Galicia, and that are not being, or cannot be, used in a good way for social, cultural, sporting or citizen activity, and that cannot be done by an administrative problem that the administrations themselves have in their hands to solve. The situation is part of the following: there are many people who have some urban expansion — for another day or another time it would be the debate of whether good or bad — which usually tends to expand in ports and gain land or fills many times over the sea. This causes the port, of course, to move inwards; and hence, the land of port use and the installations of port use will move with those lands. What's going on? That those lands where the port facilities were originally located turn today into squares of citizen use, into parks, but which administratively have a small difference with the rest of the town, and is that its ownership is of Galician ports. Where does this really affect the life of the neighbors? Well it affects a huge number of neighborhood, cultural associations, sports events, sports associations, even fairies, self-employed people or entrepreneurs who want to develop activities on these lands and cannot or do a lot of trouble. Why? Because Portos charges, that's right, it's just cobras. Cobra, charge well, they're very efficient in charging, but they're just snakes. No one's keeping these areas, no one's. No one cleans when herbs come out in places they shouldn't, no one arranges a ruining steel, a lamp that loses the point of light. Nobody! What do the neighbors do with the whole logic of the world? They go to the Town Hall and ask the mayor or mayor, the government group, some arrangement, because they're central areas where there's a lot of possibilities for use, where a lot of people go through. It happens in many places that there are bars that have terraces, and that, depending on the side of the street where they are — whether they are on the side of the street or whether they are on the other side of the street — pay different fees. There are different regulations for the terraces. They're therefore different in competition. Some can put more and more less. And they don't understand the merchants — and, indeed, one, when you have to explain this, it costs you to defend it too — because being public lands cannot have as suitable public use as possible. And that's what we're thinking today. There are lands in this country in many municipalities. We can say that in practically all, I'm not able to carry in memory all, but it would be very difficult to find a port in Galicia that does not have under its title a land used for the citizen activity but does not grant it to the municipalities. So what's the matter? Today we are in a complicated time, but there will come a time when we can resume some activities -- maybe otherwise, but we will resume employers' parties, neighborhood parties, etc. -- and if an association wants to perform an activity, put some installations, some carp on a ground, if not out of Ports it could come to an agreement with the Town Hall and it wouldn't charge them, or it would charge you a minimum use. But Ports asks for 3,000, 4,000 or 6,000 euros. Why? For settling in there. What do you do for it then Ports? Adequate or place? No, no, no, no. Clear? No, no, no, no. Make it easier to access? No, no, no, no. But charge. And the question is, nobody understands why they charge in places that have nothing to do with the port. I'm telling them about squares, parks, which are not 50, but 100, 200, 300 or 500 meters from any port facility. It doesn't make any sense. And this is something that doesn't only defend one party or another. The mayors say it, some taller and some lower. The mayors are aware, and I believe that all Members who have shared this conversation with some mayor or mayor are aware that they understand that there is no one who can explain this. And it's probably a question that needs a technical solution, but there's a political will that can be expressed or not. I say this because of the difference that has recently been made between technology and politics. We even hear here many times that there are many people here who say they don't come to politics, in a parliament! Well, politics is about wanting to reaffirm or change some situations. We defend changing this one. Of course we'll have to find the technical solutions. That's what the technicians are for. Politicians are about to carry it out. I'm saying that when they say that about... I heard something scary yesterday that we didn't make political decisions in health. Let me fix them. Every decision, in any ear that is made, is political. But, well, saving that debate, I know... Then, when the anti-politics -- the "trumpism" and VOX -- come in, we put our hands on it. And there are some who have been defending anti-politics for so long. But, finally, that's another debate. What we have here today is a question that is not a partisan — that that yes can be the term — but is a question of political will. We think this because we understand that the People's Party has this awareness that there is a problem. It is because some initiative in this Parliament has already registered, much less explicit — probably because it can have another position — much less clear — probably because it does not want to clarify its position — and that it has not yet led the debate — probably because it has its measure of time and when it wants to take it or when it does not. But in any case, we've been thinking about this. There are lands in municipalities which are very relevant to the municipalities and which today are owned by Ports, land which have no port or maritime utility and which cannot be used, except by paying excessive fees, for cultural activity — which is good for cultural associations — for the holding of events — which is good for the economic dynamics of the people, or for sporting events, for administrative activities, for self-employed or business activities, for fairs, for many activities that cannot be used. And it's just an administrative problem. They're following this debate cultural associations that organize events, sports associations that organize events, and that have the illusion that next year they can reorganize some activity. And they don't want to have to pay thousands of euros that they don't win and that they don't have to do these activities. Some host associations are also asked why there are hosts who have different rates and different conditions having bars 10 meters from each other. And it's very hard to explain. So what do we think? Let's plan that we make a solution, in the format they see. We defend one. A voluntary accession of the Town Councils, that all those municipalities that believe that some of these lands that are there can use them and take care of them, request them and give them the title. Because they don't want to spend it. He wants it, but it's because Ports doesn't even let things happen. Let me give you two examples — we could put many —: Honey has a health center practically on port land — and Sergas will probably also wonder why he should have to pay taxes to Galician ports for installing a health center, which makes little sense. I'll give you another example: The Grove. If anyone knows The Grove, The Grove has a parking and park area very large near the sea, where the Marisco Fair — very important for O Grove — is made, where many citizen activities are carried out, where there is a park with activities for children and where the building of the Town Hall itself is. All this is port ownership. What about the bars that are there? They pay much less than side bars for fees. Problem! What about the Grove Town Hall? He's on port ground, and I promise you that the sea won't be seen from there. There are places of harbour land where the sea is not seen. It doesn't make any sense. So we have a debate — you can call it technical, if you want, but it is really willful — which is that we do something for our municipalities. And allow me to have a final interpretation, which is not going to be, which is a matter that, rather than being technical, has quite a policy behind it. And this is especially true in three areas of Galicia: in Salnes, on the Coast of Death and in the Navy they shine. It occurs practically in all the municipalities of that area. And the curiosity is that these problems that give Galician Ports to mayors coincide with mayors who are not from the People's Party. Curiosity! Since this measure would also affect mayors who are also members of the People's Party, we understand that it should be good for all. [[Applause]] And it is. And we therefore propose that we take this LNP into account, that we vote in favour, and that we may allow the municipalities that give them ease to neighbouring, cultural and business associations to develop activities. And that Ports is not only an entity that collects but only a cobra. Because, the truth is, this will be very efficient for the accounting balance but it's a public entity, and it's quite inefficient for the social balance, of which a public entity should worry. For now, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u112	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rosana Pérez Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u113	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. Good morning, I say, all of you, Mr. President. It wasn't my intention, but I started by making a little slaughter of the proponent, Mr. Torrado. And I would point out to you, Mr. Torrado, that in these three areas that you have probably commented the incidence is higher with respect to the rates and the Law of Ports. Now, I assure you that there are many other areas in the country that have this same problem, starting with the Barbanza area, continuing through the area of Muros-Noia, the area of Pontevedra and many others; not all of them in the country. [[Applause]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, traditionally the direct interaction between Galician ports and the municipalities, and also with the economic sectors that settle in the harbour areas, was non-existent; or, by saying it in a slightly smoother way, it has always had many difficulties. But in recent years it has been even worse. That conversation went directly to be imposed, or even, in many cases, conflict. Moreover, the Galician Ports Act highlights, more than any other feature, its privatization character, the search for profit and, of course, the lack of cooperation and public benefit. Galician Union has not been interested or able to maintain in the past eleven years the link that has always existed between ports, port areas, harbour spaces, and population in general — and in particular the population where those ports are precisely located. Moreover, the Galician Union has denied itself in all this time that public spaces — squares, parks, streets — had something to do with harbour spaces, when the reality is that in the vast majority of cases — not in all — there are lands whose ownership is of Ports but nothing, absolutely nothing, has to do with fishing or port activity. They are lands from which the municipalities need to make use of for all kinds of activity, and they are even in charge paradoxically, right? of their maintenance, their arrangement, their conditioning or their conservation. There has not been — at least until now — the minimum cooperation which is understood to be customary between administrations; quite the contrary, both municipalities, associations and non-profit entities are obliged by the Ports Act itself to bear absolutely abusive charges for the use of these land. Ports of Galicia is the true "black man" who rules the Town Councils year after year. And not only regulates unabated fees, but also an absolutely despotic treatment, in which cases are given as much Kafkian as not to authorize, for example, a musical concert in a public square, in a port space in an administrative concession regime, to the Town Hall itself. [[Applause]] It's absolutely incomprehensible. It is so bloody that now in the recent state of alarm Galician Ports, instead of standing aside in this case of the host sector — as Mr. Torrado mentioned — and canceling the rates while the pandemic effects last and the situation is not normalized, decides to continue to cover them and box them for using a greater space to keep the distance of security; terrace rates that — open the eyes, ladies and gentlemen — in many cases exceed those applied by the municipalities themselves ten times: 500 euros per 30 square meters; or, for example, no less than 12,500 euros per covered terraces and for six months. As you will understand, the unrest in the sector by this armed robbery — or disarmed, but it does not cease to be a robbery — is enormous; and, of course, BNG is in favour of leaving without effect the collection of these occupation rates until at least this situation that we are living in — which does not seem to be ready to be done. When all the data indicate the economic drowning of the host sector, among others, Ports de Galicia continues to be hampered and totally insensitive to the social and economic reality of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, at the BNG we believe in the use compatible with port use by the municipalities, especially bearing in mind that the benefits that Galician ports derive from the use of their land for any activity do not revert to anything in the municipalities themselves, and yet to the improvement of port facilities. If there is any department or agency in the board of Galicia, of the many who depend on it -- of all those chiringuits that are mounted on the board of Galicia itself -- if there is any, of course, that stands out for not doing or letting do, that, ladies and gentlemen, is Galician ports. It is absolutely absurd and, of course, inexplicable to most of the neighbours and neighbours of a coastal council — and, of course, to the local administration itself — that the ownership of land that is perfectly integrated into the urban plot prevents those own lands from being useful, of some use, that cannot be made of them and that the mere fact of ownership prevents or makes their public use difficult. And of course, we are in favour, Mr. Torrado, that that title of harbour spaces, when they are not being used for activities strictly related to the fishing, marine and port sector, return to the municipalities. The normal thing in a normal legislation, in a normal country, would actually have been contemplated by law. But Law 2/2017, from Galician ports, not only does it not pick it up but clearly excludes the municipalities from any decision on harbour spaces. The Law of Ports has turned, through the Official Journal of Galicia, the ports into real urban islands within the Town Councils, obviating those municipalities; and not only observing them but invading their urban competences, which remain out of any kind of action on the port and port land. The Port Law only regarded them — the municipalities — as mere payers, as mere contributors, only as less and less sea-related collection subjects. What less at this time — it should be a long time before — than to consider that they can be holders of the port land they themselves clean, that they themselves keep, that they themselves condition and that they themselves keep! And since the BNG, Mr. PSdEG's spokesperson, we believe that your proposal can even be more concrete and, therefore, we also believe that more agile and easier to implement. And with that object, we present an amendment that collects the reversal of the title of the port lands in the case of those municipalities that have already requested it, so that it may be done on its own by the board of Galicia and without further delay. It is an amendment, Mr. Torrado, which we believe improves — at least a little bit — the text of the agreement and we hope that it will be accepted by the proposed group. Nothing else. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez Fernández. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Egerique Mosquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u115	Good morning. Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Well, prior questions, Mr. Torrado. First of all, I don't know if you don't find out or you don't talk much to the PSdEG members. And especially I don't know if it sounds like you're an organism that's Fegamp. Because we're talking about the municipalities, we're talking about the representation of the municipalities -- you've talked about many -- and actually Fegamp is already with knowledge and activity in what you're asking for. I mean, I don't know if you come here with ignorance or if it's omission — and I don't know what would be more serious, either. Because he's been talking and he's been talking about nine and a half minutes about what he doesn't want you to do, but in the last thirty seconds it's been very clear that this is totally partisan. And you come here to defend three comarcas. But if it is true that what you propose and what you are talking about — which I do not know, I insist, whether it is ignorance or omission — is already in progress, we have already looked at it in the People's Party of Galicia in 2016 and we have already taken it to the electoral program — I will speak of it. And there have already been several meetings, besides at the request of the municipalities themselves who request it, because it is a voluntary subject, to make that possible reversal of some lands that are now in possession of Galician ports and that could be the title of the municipality. Then there is another question, and it is that it calls for a regulatory procedure. And, as I say, there is already the regulatory procedure. As soon as a council requests the reversal of that title, this is processed in a file that is regulated in Law 6/2017, of December 12, of the ports of Galicia, thereafter would also be in Law 22/1978, of the back of Galicia, modified on May 31, 2013, and in Law 5/2011 of the heritage of Galicia. Because, as you know, by the difference, by the different spaces that can be requested or that can be the title of the ports, this could change. It's not hard to explain. You said it's very difficult to explain it in the municipalities. It's not hard to explain, it's very clear. Besides, the panorama that was set here, that also the voicer of the Nationalist Block Galego put it on the table, it's true. It's the reality of coastal municipalities. The reality of the bonding of many harbour spaces, marine activity, social, sports and cultural activity is very clear. And I think we all know each other in this House. And I'm telling you, as I said before, that the Galician People's Party addressed this issue while on the ground, talking to different mayors, with the president of the Fegamp. And I'm very surprised that you thought about this today this way, because, in addition to that, it is now possible that the president of the Fegamp is the mayor — I think — of the village where you are; so he could inform you of all the meetings that have been going on. In 2016 — I insist — in the electoral programme in the autonomous elections — you read textually — we put it: "We will promote a general management of the service areas of the ports with the improvement and modernization of the general services of the ports, in addition to cataloging and bringing to the municipalities spaces that are likely to serve for urban uses and dedicated to society in general." It's on page 98 of the program. There are a number of points more dedicated to the link between the port and the city, and you can read it. And we met in the past legislation, we met because, as I told you, the working group is already created. It is already created and has already met. But curiously, he met — as I could speak to some mayor — not in this legislation, nor when the current president of the Fegamp was appointed, but in the previous. And I think the will is entirely by Fegamp in general. That's why I say, if you forget it, it seems more serious even if you don't know it. So the will is complete, and they also participate in the General Directorate of Local Administration and the General Technical Secretariat of Heritage. They do not forget it, because on many occasions — I speak here about Cambados and I speak in some areas — they are protected by Heritage. And that should be taken into account, too. Port spaces were also regulated for events — which was also a commitment we had made in 2016 — in the Resolution of 8 May 2020 approving the procedure for the authorization of occupation of public harbour domain, competence of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, with a view to performing public shows and recreational activities. It is published in the DOG of 19 May 2020. Another commitment made to knowing reality. We do not question at all everything they have exposed here of the difficulties that can sometimes encounter any entity, any person, who wants to carry out an event, the difficulties or complications that may exist in administrative processing, request deadlines and, after, charge charges. That is why it is interesting — I insist — that you don't know anything about this, because, for example, the amendment to the Nationalist Block in Wales already shows what I am saying. Because he says that, in cases where the municipalities have already asked the Authority of the Ports of Galicia to reverse the title of the port land, it will take place as soon as possible. The Galician Nationalist Block already knows that some open procedure exists, or that some request is already made. So you already come perfectly with this amendment that there are already procedures, that the will of Portos and Junta is total. But it must also exist — I insist — the desire of the municipality. Because you set an example and I'll put another one. For example, in the municipality of Viveiro the only free parking that exists is the possession of Ports. Give the Cunta de Galicia and Portos the option to offer it to the municipality. And the municipality, with a socialist mayor, doesn't want those lands. So it must also be the will of the municipality itself. And not all mayors — I insist, not all mayors — want that reversal of titles. That's why I say that the Fegamp, the highest body where all the municipalities are represented, has to take all the municipalities into account. Because you then say you're not a partisan, but at the last moment you've made up your mind, because you say we only serve the Town Councils of the People's Party. And that's not true. The working group with Fegamp maintained the evolution in time — meetings in February and May 2019 — to assess the situation and begin to collect requests from the municipalities on specific spaces — 18 areas have now been posted in 16 municipal terms — and to set technical parameters — as you said, technical parameters are important and that is why the question of Heritage is important here too. And always within the limits set by legislation, once the technical criteria governing administrative procedures are fixed, the working group begins to work on the processing of specific revisions. And since you also ask for bilateral meetings or negotiations, you know that there have also been bilateral meetings between mayors, between council representatives, and Galician ports — or also with Galician port technicians — to assess this viability and the definition of these areas, which is also difficult on many occasions. Let us not escape the administrative complexity and the slowness of these procedures, because we cannot — to be well with a mayor, or to be well— and to say so here with a sentence that we all understand, for we can undress one saint to wear another. First of all, we have the legality and responsibility to which Galician ports are subjected in the management of their autonomous ports. Because, out of the 122 that exist, 72 already have a port planning document that prevails — I insist — the fishing-nautical land over what may be other events. Those DEUPs, as they call them, these plans of use, plans of port use, sometimes also make changes in the uses of different spaces very difficult. Therefore, each port has its own plan of use, and it must also be taken into account that use is prevalent — that always prevails the fishing and nautical, of course. On the other hand, they know that the rates of port uses, which are public — these rates are public — apply equally to sailors as well as to the conduct of different events. I also ask the municipalities of the PSOE with municipal public fees, even the municipalities of the Nationalist Block Galego, what they're going to do. Yeah, I don't know. You speak in the explanatory statement — Mr. Torrado — of injustice, injustice between title, utility, use and benefit. And I tell you that it seems a little vague that you've put on, because it's on the side of all administrations the injustice?, of all entities, of the state ports, also of the Town Councils? Are all unfair, all fees unfair? I don't think it's appropriate. And I remember that during the pandemic period they froze and stopped charging those fees even with the ports running and the activity running. Of course that's fair. Anyway, and speaking of the reversal process — which I have already said are slow and complex — there are port space transfer processes on the coast initiated in 2018 and before. I also have here and I also refer in my speech to Bares, the Port of Sound — which started in 16—; the Pontiff and Dear—you also referred to Cariño, since 2003 and 2006 respectively; and, as I said, with the volunteerness of the municipality itself, willingly also by the Board of Galicia and the ports of Galicia. I therefore believe that in this case, Mr Torrado, we could save this debate. I think it's good that we talk and we come to an agreement, but on our part there was never doubt of supporting this initiative, because it doesn't say, it doesn't contribute, nothing new. It does not urge Joina to anything new that is not being done; and even with the very addition of the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block, which must be said to say, "of trade" and "as soon as possible." And, as I say, always within the legal possibilities that there is but always with will, indeed, that the Council of Galicia and the ports of Galicia have every desire that, if the municipality requires this land and wants ownership to pass or revert to the title of the municipality, there would be no problem. But I insist that there are municipalities that don't want these harbour lands. We will therefore support the initiative. I insist that we have nothing to urge, nothing new. And I wish all the coastal municipalities that want those lands could get them and manage them, if you think they would do better than Galician ports. By the way, there is a further complication in this case in coastal municipalities — finished, president — with the processing of the Climate Change Act, which also said that it would be a maximum consensus law and to which 758 amendments were tabled, 758 amendments! Even the PSOE and We can have tabled amendments — 24 — and we haven't seen any of the PSdEGs — failing his word a little bit, because they said they were going to amend it. And that will affect about five thousand buildings in the coastal towns of Galicia. That also needs to be taken into account because it's one more factor that comes into this subject of the reversal of the competitive land of Ports and Coasts in Galicia. For me, that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u117	Thank you, President. I sometimes think that in the People's Party they have a kind of bet to see if they're able to pull a certain subject in all initiatives, as they say among you, "No matter what the subject is. We have to talk about this." And if they do — which I don't know if they do, Mrs. Egerique — you always win; because you can always put on some subject — which is good for the goal, to me. We want to thank the support of the Galician Nationalist Block, and I understand that also the People's Party, which is interesting. From our point of view, we're going to explain why the initiative is really interesting and why we had nothing like this. Even though I have the feeling, by the intervention of the People's Party, that will be approved but to do something else. But, well, we accept the amendment. We think it's actually going to be implicit in the initiative. But to be more explicit, it's good to accept it. And of course we didn't say they were the only territories. Mrs Pérez, I think she's poor, if I'm not mistaken, that she also has a specific problem and that some parts of the land in this situation have also been resolved in another process. On the necessity of this subject and why is it, I'm going to say, lies — not to say it's a lie — that the Board is in this, first, why, if in 2016 they were working on this, in 2017 the Law of Ports doesn't say it — that doesn't say so —? Why in 2018 to this same initiative — which you have defended, I think I remember, Mr Fernández Prado in the Commission 8th by the People's Party — did the PP vote against? In 2016 they already agreed but in 2018 they voted against. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, I was telling you that Mr. Fernández Prado did. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They voted against it, so... and to be a little more explicit, I'm going to appeal directly to the strict literality of the People's Party. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because, if you are so clear that this is what you want, where you actually say that it is voluntary — here the initiative — and where it says, not that there is a request — that you will see Ports doing with it — but that the municipalities can voluntarily claim it, I would like to! - those who want, yes, and those who don't want, no... but, if the council demands them, they will be granted them. That's what we're asking for and what you want to say is yes but they don't approve. Because I'm going to read it and I'm going to ask you for some attention — the People's Party already knows why you've registered it — because it's really the clarity that says you have the PP on this issue, which says you're very clear about your position. I'm going to read the initiative they registered two months ago. If you've been registered to urge Junta, it's just that it wasn't done. Because, following some parliamentary instructions from Mr. Puy yesterday, if she was registered to ask the Board for something, it was not done. Let's start around. And let's see what he's asking for -- it took him a while but he's got no point and he's followed, so I'll see if I don't drown-- "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to complement the actions in port spaces to suit them with their full operation and improve efficiency and use in relation to urban areas in which they are settled, so that a general management of the service areas of ports will be promoted with the improvement and modernization of the general services of ports, in addition to cataloging and approaching the municipalities the spaces that can be used for urban uses and dedicated to society in general and moving forward towards the approval of the port equipment plan that will have to respond to the needs of logistics and service elements, as well as boosting a dredging plan of the autonomous ports." That's absolutely clear! That's absolutely clear! They're very clear. If you can rewrite it without reading this, I join the People's Party. It's just that I'm about to read it again, that's great. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They don't want me. [[Strong murmurers.]] Thank you, thank you! Thank you, thank you! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I used to say a master of mine to define your rivals more than your friends. Thank you, thank you! I'm saying that because if they're so clear, see if anyone can explain this to me. And I'll read it again: "To complement the performances in the harbour spaces to suit them to their full operation and improve efficiency and use in relation to the urban areas in which they settle..." Anyway, this is a mistress. If they were clear, they don't have to register anything. If they were clear, they'd put it in the law. If they're clear, they'll vote in favour of 2018. They don't want to! And all right, it's fair not to want to do it, I'd miss it more! The problem is that you talk and promise. They promise very well and they do very badly. And the question is that you want institutions like Galician ports to charge for the municipalities. By the way, I won't speak for any institution. You do. But the truth is, I know what some institutions think because they say it publicly. You should ask. By the way, since you're Mr. President, why hasn't Cecop met since July 12th? It must have been that since July 12th they cared little about what the municipalities paint. Also, it's true, too. But, finally, we're going to leave that, that we're on other things. Actually, if the Town Councils want it and Junta says she wants it, what's the problem? Because there are a lot of requests from these lands, too many, that are denied. Why? Because Junta doesn't want to. And why doesn't he want to? Because he wants to collect, collect and collect. So, besides congratulating Mrs Egerique — if she wins that bet on which they always put a subject, as if we always want to talk about Ana de Bande, who doesn't go there — if you want to talk about the same things, well, but if you want to do things, they vote in favour and, above all, it's very important — after voting in favour, do it. Because it's rather obscene that in this parliament the PP votes for things and then don't do them, that that's pretty ridiculous. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u118	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u119	Let's start with the votes of non-legislative proposals. We begin by voting on the People's Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Pedro Puy, on the demand of the Galician Government to the Spanish Government for the regulatory changes necessary for organic legislation on public health in order to be able to act on the pandemic of cover-19 with full guarantees of legal security. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is not accepted. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Corina Porro Martínez and 13 other Members, on the demand of the Galician Government for the regulatory changes necessary for organic legislation on public health in order to be able to act on the pandemic of cover-19 with full guarantees and legal certainty The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; abstentions, 31. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u120	As far as the debate is concerned, in terms of the issue of railways, we have a transaction on the two non-legislative proposals. I read the text on what the groups agreed on, and it says: "The Parliament urges the Galician Union to sue the Spanish Government that: 1. It restores all the railway services that have been removed by hanging in the pandemic caused by the covid-19, both with regard to the internal connections in the Galician community itself and with the connections of Galicia to other autonomous communities, particularly with the cities of Barcelona and Madrid, offering services consistent with the increased demand by users. 2. Increase the staff of drivers and provide the necessary personnel the railway services provided on these lines with the objective of providing quality train transport to users. 3. An extraordinary investment plan for the modernization and improvement of the Galician railway network which includes as a priority the following lines: Ourense-Luco, Lugo-A Coruña-Ferrol, La Coruña-Ferrol, Ferrol-Ribadeo, Vigo-Ourense, Vigo-Porto." Let's vote, see if it's done. Vote of the transactioned text on G.P.'s Non-Law Proposition. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Elena Candia López and fourteen other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Galician Union before the Government of Spain to restore all the services by train that were removed by hanging in the pandemic caused by the coward-19, both in the internal connections in the Galician community itself and in the connections of Galician with other autonomous communities, and so that a quality train transport can be provided to users, and on the Proposal not by law of the G.P. of the Nationalist Bloc, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and two other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the railway services abolished in connection with the state of alarm and the modernization and improvement of the Galician railway network, as well as the actions to be carried out in railway matters. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 70. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u121	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mr Juan Carlos Francisco Rivera and three other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the foreseeable start of non-professional federal sports competitions in Galicia and the health requirements arising from the coward-19. The amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group were accepted and a transaction with the People's Parliamentary Group was pending. I don't know if there's a deal. I don't have it. I didn't get it. He's here, sorry. [[Pause.]] They're making me come now. The transaction says: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to: - To approve a specific line of grants directed to federal autonomic clubs to meet the health demands derived from the curfew-19. -Go to the Higher Council of Sports to enable aid and financing mechanisms for the non-professional non-State sports sector." Vote of the transactioned text on G.P.'s Non-Law Proposition. the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Juan Carlos Francisco Rivera and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the foreseeable start of the non-professional federal sports competitions in Galicia and the health requirements derived from the covid-19. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 70. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u122	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, which was defended by Daniel Castro, on the demands to be made by the Greek Government to the Central Government in relation to the situation of Alcoa in San Cibrao, the approval of an electro-intensive consumer status and the creation of a Greek electric tariff. In particular, the text would be the BNG proposal, which follows the same with the three points, and then a point vote would be made with the inclusion of a fourth point corresponding to the amendment by the Popular Parliamentary Group. Do you agree with this? [[Pause.]] First, let us vote on the first point of the proposal from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. [[Pause to clarify the terms of the vote.]] After the deal, the thing stays the way it was. It's a deal. [[Laughter]] He's not a minor. [[Murmurs.]] Let's repeat. The agreement is that the three points of the Galician Nationalist Bloc proposal are voted on, and that a fourth point that we also vote separately, which is the amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group. So we started by voting on the first point of the Galician Nationalist Block Group proposal. Vote of the first point of the transactioned text on the G.P. Non-law proposition. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Pontón Mondelo and eighteen other Members, on the demands to be made by the Greek Government to the Central Government in relation to the situation of Alcoa in San Cibrao, the approval of an electro-intensive consumer status and the creation of a Greek electric tariff. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 17 votes against, 39; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. The first point of this text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u123	We are now voting on the second point in the proposal from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. Second point vote on the G.P. Non-Law Proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Pontón Mondelo and eighteen other Members, on the demands to be made by the Greek Government to the Central Government in relation to the situation of Alcoa in San Cibrao, the approval of an electro-intensive consumer status and the creation of a Greek electric tariff. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 70. The voting is positive. The second point of this text is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u124	We voted on the third point of this proposal from the Nationalist Block in Wales. Third point vote on the G.P.'s non-law proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Pontón Mondelo and eighteen other Members, on the demands to be made by the Greek Government to the Central Government in relation to the situation of Alcoa in San Cibrao, the approval of an electro-intensive consumer status and the creation of a Greek electric tariff. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 17 votes against, 53. The result of the vote is negative. The third point of this text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u125	Finally, we are voting on the fourth point, which is the amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group. We vote. Fourth point vote on G.P.'s non-law proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Pontón Mondelo and eighteen other Members, on the demands to be made by the Greek Government to the Central Government in relation to the situation of Alcoa in San Cibrao, the approval of an electro-intensive consumer status and the creation of a Greek electric tariff. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 70. The voting is positive. The fourth point of this text is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u126	We are now voting on the non-legislative proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group at the initiative of Mr Julio Torrado. There is an amendment by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group that is accepted. Vote of the transactioned text on G.P.'s Non-Law Proposition. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Julio Torrado Quintela and two other Members, on the action to be taken by the Government of Galicia in order to enable the reversion to the municipalities of the title of the port land, when their use for purposes related to the port is residual or non-existent and are likely to be municipal use. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 70. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u127	The votes were finished. We continue with the agenda at the fifth point, of interpellations. Interpellation by D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and D. Iago Tabares Pérez-Pineiro, from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the policy of the Greek Government in relation to the distribution of non-finalist transfers to the municipalities
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u128	Mr Bará has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u129	Mr. Wheel, I see you are living eternal moments, moments of meditation and zen elevation. I hope they will give you strength to deal with this situation, but that in any case it is not also eternal the answer to all these questions that we are going to propose here, which are, as you know, demands that have also repeatedly transferred to you from the Fegamp all political groups that are part of this representative entity of the Greek councils. And what I want, first of all, is to make a recognition in this House to the councils of this country for its absolutely essential work to address the pandemic, the health crisis and its consequences also in the economic and social sphere; for the enormous effort of mayors, mayors, corporations of all political signs to, above all, deal with the huge social emergency that is taking place in the councils of this country, with people who do not have to eat, who are going to the municipalities and also to the food banks. Those who are responding in the front line, in the front of shock, are the Greek municipalities. Therefore, our gratitude, our respect and our gratitude for their enormous effort. In addition, it must be borne in mind that our municipalities have been suffering, as you know, a serious financial situation, a delicate situation. In part, it is caused by the transfer of powers to them by the Council of Galicia as a result of the adoption of various laws — some of them promoted by its department — and also, in recent times, by obligations, taxes, also by the Government of Galicia to meet extraordinary costs arising from the pandemic — such as the costs of cleaning and disinfecting schools. And the first thing I want to ask you today, Mr. Rueda, is if the Galician Board — as you were asked at the meeting that you recently had with the direction of the Fegamp — is going to collaborate with the municipalities to deal with these expenses that now have to be borne by local corporations alone. You will also know that on Monday, the executive commission of the Fegamp has just asked both the Government of the State and the Council of Galicia to cooperate, as they receive extraordinary funds — because this is the paradox — both the state and the Council of Galicia. And here those who don't get extraordinary funds are the municipalities. I don't know if this is good for you. In any case, we think that this situation needs to be changed and that the Council of Galicia needs to take the side of the councils in the face of this serious — also budgetary — tragedy that they are suffering. It also rains on wet, because you also know, we know, that for many years the municipalities have suffered a system of State funding which is absolutely discriminatory and unfair to the Greek municipalities, which receive 50 euros of average per inhabitant and year less than the state average. This discrimination is particularly serious in the case of the cities of Greece, but it affects them equally with all the municipalities. And according to the calculations made by Fegamp himself, we would be talking over the last fifteen years over two billion euros that have stopped entering the Greek municipalities by this discriminatory system. I don't know what it looks like to you. Here we come to agreements to change this system, but the reality is that in these fifteen years you have ruled in the state, ruled the Socialist Party and we continue to suffer this unjust and discriminatory system. And I don't know, Mr. Rueda, as you call it, but we at the BNG call it expropriation, theft, spolian, squirting resources that correspond justly to citizens, people who live in this country. And there's no right. [[Applause]] The municipalities, in addition, have also been abused by agreements and unjust legislation passed in recent years, such as the Law of budgetary stability, the Montor Law. By the way, you made statements in August asking to cancel the Montoro Law. And I don't know what you saw yesterday's vote of the People's Party in the Congress of Deputies, which did not support the suspension of the spending rule so that the municipalities could make use of these more than 900 million euros of the Greek municipalities that are so necessary to deal with all those emergencies. You didn't support this decision. And I don't know if you've changed your mind or changed the People's Party in Madrid, or if what you're doing is you're acting teledirected from Genoa, as usual, and they say "if you drink" to everything they command from there. Mr. Rueda, the Greek councils have also been mistreated and naïve in these years by the Galician People's Party's Union. There is the 2006 Local Compact for 2006 and there are years of fruitless meetings of the Local Cooperation Commission, which has not produced any results on all the issues that are open. It's been seven years without meeting, you'll tell me! from 2010 to 2017, and it's your responsibility for local cooperation, as vice president and chairlor. I won't talk to you either about the local water pact, which has already been sold to us so many times that it's finished in wet paper, nothing at all! Now they get out of the sleeve, at this last meeting, in recent times, that they're going to make another project, which already to warn where the shots are going, they call it "Water Sogama" -- they're looking for friends in the People's Party. The municipalities, through the Fegamp, have made concrete proposals to which we want you to give us an answer here. This plea is for you to give us answers to the proposals agreed and consensual by all the Greek municipalities. First, are you in favour of adopting a local farm law, as proposed in a consensual manner to Fegamp? Secondly, do you also defend a law on the regulation of participation in the income of the Autonomous Community which sets objective criteria for the distribution and integration of transfers and subsidies into the Local Cooperation Fund so that there are no arbitraryities? How do you feel about modifying the criteria for the allocation of the Environmental Compensation Fund so that your funds are fully distributed among the municipalities — and, if not entirely, not with this confiscation that you are confiscating from those funds that should mostly correspond to the municipalities —? And I set the example of Mazarics: they raise 700,000 and the county gives 200,000. And it's the county that has the direct impact of these wind farms on its territory. It also requests Fegamp criteria for the distribution of funds and economic aid to municipalities with publicity, competition, equality and non-discrimination. And I wouldn't be doing any more, too, as I proposed to Fegamp, an application that allows us to visualize the money transferred to the municipalities over all these years. I'm sure you don't like this measure, because you're going to get your colors out of the absolutely and shamefully partisan use of public funds, with partisan criteria and sectarians of public money distribution; a discriminatory and antidemocratic distribution, because that money, Mr. Rueda, is not yours, I'm not from the People's Party, it's public money, money from all the Greeks and Greeks, and it must be shared with objective criteria. And you are the main responsible for this situation of discrimination, this modus operandi. Because, of course, you're going to tell me about the Local Cooperation Fund, you're going to tell me they've increased it in recent years. But we want to talk to you about the calls for grants, about eliminating those that are not necessary and transferring that money to the Local Cooperation Fund; and, above all, about ending this absolutely perverse and anti-democratic procedure of the agreements signed with the People's Party councils. And I can talk to you there about a ranking and medallion if we can get to that level of debate. In the first position is the Environmental Council — since then he has learned the Councillor's mornings when he was in the middle of the countryside. It's absolutely scandalous, and I have here the data, of how literally they speak hundreds of millions out of the Local Cooperation Fund and out of the open, transparent and objective summons to give money to the Town Councils of the People's Party. I can tell you about the Galaga Infrastructure Agency, I can tell you about Galician Waters, I can tell you about the Rural Environmental Council, I can tell you about the Hurbe Plan. It is absolutely indecent, it is absolutely scandalous, as you systematically — and also have the obligation to publish it in the DOG — make these agreements exclusively, or mostly, scandalously majority, with councils of the People's Party. This can't be, Mr. Rueda, we must end these practices. And you also have the example in the Members — by the way, night and day between Ourense and the other Members, who have been moving towards an objective criterion of distribution with the funds of the Town Councils, with the sole funds of the Town Councils. Of course, the one who made the most progress was the Deputy of the Crown, which can also be an example for the Government of the United States. And so did the Deputies of Pontevedra and Lugo. The only one who didn't do so was the House of Ourense, who shares with objective criteria less than 10% of the funds he manages, and the rest are for the friends and friends of the People's Party. This is not decent, this is not democratic, and this cannot be accepted. So, Mr. Rueda, I would like to ask you a specific question to end: when will you end up with these fraudulent and clientele practices of distribution of public funds, which are money from all and all and which cannot be used to benefit municipalities and hence to discriminate against people who do not live in councils where the People's Party does not rule? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u130	Thank you, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u131	Response from the Vice-President, Prime Minister, Justice and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Bará, before anything and in the same good tone as you said it and you started your intervention, I also tell you that thank you very much for following me on social networks — I suppose you will refer to a photograph that I published the other day on a personal account of a trip with family and friends. I would recommend that you spend more time with your family and friends. Not everything is political in this life, and maybe she sees things differently. It's a very healthy practice that I would recommend to you, because I think, as you say, you don't do it enough. [[Applause]] You have mixed up a bit. The truth is, he does four specific questions in the interpellation. And then he mixed it up and then he ended up putting examples of what I'm going to try between my first intervention and the reply to answer them. Because, finally, that you put me as an example of objective distribution of grants -- probably by proximity, even if it's by geographical proximity and because we know the names of that corporation -- the Deputy of Pontevedra -- as much as it repeats the objective distribution of grants, I'm going to give you some figures, because if that's your model, it's certainly not ours. So, if you're repeating all day that the division that makes the Deputy of Pontevedra is an objective division -- I insist, the best case we can know, maybe we could talk to others, is that I don't understand anything you want to ask me about. In fact, you plant things that are actually putting on the table between the different organs of government, between the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces and the Galician Union. It is true that I have been responsible for several years for having relations with the municipalities since the Council of Galicia, and I believe that there have been a number of agreements, frankly, independently—that it was not a good thing and so we said it, and it has begun to meet more regularly for three years—... irrespective of whether or not there were meetings of the Galician Local Cooperation Commission—and I insist that it is good that there be them, but it is also true that will is needed by both parties, not only by the Galician Union—. And in planning and proposing matters, I believe that, with different German federations of municipalities and provinces — which change, as you know, every time there are municipal elections — we have reached agreements and we have had good relations. There were — and there are, today, four presidents of the Fegamp, two of the People's Party, two of the Socialist Party, and I sincerely believe that we have reached agreements on what could be achieved. Because, of course, there are other things you're thinking about in the interpellation that are complicated and we don't have a general framework. You yourself remembered the agreement you made yesterday to Fegamp, which took all political groups, in which a number of things were asked to the Government of the State and to the Council of Galicia. Look, the truth is, even what's asked of the Galician Council, and what you make in your interpellation, depends a lot on what we can agree on with the government of the state. And it's very difficult to talk about criteria for distribution of funds from Galicia's board to the municipalities, funds that it receives largely also from the state, without knowing what the general framework is. Look, in the years I've been having a lot of difference between the first years and the last years in having a relationship with the Ministry of Business — or with those with whom I have the competences at every moment of the Central Administration — to tell us what the framework is. There's no question, and we've finally reached the absolute discharge we've seen in recent months on the subject of the remnants. Listen, with a government that has doubts about the current socialist government of Mr Sánchez in talking about economic and financial relations with the municipalities until that vote, that historical loss — which you yourself have had to recognize that it could not be — about the remnants, of course, to start asking what the framework is for later setting it up for us is nothing simple. And yet, to that specific question that you ask me, if we agree that the councils also receive, just as the autonomous communities are receiving it — not on the content of the deadlines or with the speed to which the central government initially committed itself — if the proposal is that the municipalities also receive funds from the central government to fight against the cage and to meet the costs they have, of course! And we will support them in that petition, we have already told them at that Fegamp meeting you referred to. Logically, what we can't admit is this approach so comfortable for the state, which I suppose you won't support either. It's just, no, they give it to us. And then, if we want to share it, there we are! Even though we know that what we are given — said by themselves — is solely to finance the expenses that we have in the autonomous communities — that we have, in the end, exclusive competences in a series of subjects which are subject to very large costs during the pandemic. Well, if we want to share it, fine. So they're already starting from the base that wouldn't be enough for us but that if we wanted to share it... No, no, Mr Bará, I suppose you'll agree that this can't be done like this. And of course to see if the municipalities, Fegamp in Galicia and Femp at the national level -- to see if this time Mr. Caballero succeeds in his proposal -- are able to get them also to be distributed funds from the state, these extraordinary funds. Of course we support that, I have no doubt; I don't think you have Fegamp and you shouldn't have it. As for other things, I'll tell you again that we need a general state framework. Look, it makes me very curious that you raise all these questions, which I think are very necessary, above all, the change in the criterion of distribution of the funds received — which is now clearly hurting the Greek municipalities because they are not taking into account nor the population dispersion, aging or a number of factors that enhance the services — and, instead, the agreement that you have put forward, that you have signed and that we have so many times talked about here and that you are still looking at the minimum development, do not devote a single line to putting all these issues into question. If it was a great opportunity to bring back that historic agreement, it's the place, the time and the place to also tell the central government that this whole distribution system has changed. We've been thinking about it since the first meeting in Galicia. We didn't make it. You had a chance of gold and, oh, chance! you forgot them, or it wasn't an important subject, or it wasn't the one you were supposed to put on, or you knew they wouldn't listen to them. But in the pact that you have, well, I think that never had it... maybe it was the moment of... I know that what I'm asking is you, but we're talking about this subject and I'd like to know, as the Government of the Council of Galicia, why you, who so presumably boasted of that ability of influence with the central government -- I insist, not shown at all until now -- they didn't put in that pact that you had to change the criteria. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Probably even if they had put them, as there was not, I say, any conversation all this time in that matter, they would have achieved absolutely nothing. But it would be okay, and so we'd make it stronger between us all and so we'd get it. We, of course, at the scene of our competences will continue to advance in these matters. Look, the vast majority of the funding that goes from Join the Town Councils is, first, unconditional funding through the Local Cooperation Fund. There's a lot of them. We are already going for more than a billion euros in the last ten years, and it is up to us, from the Local Cooperation Fund, unconditional funding. Let's keep, in addition, in very difficult times, a much higher content than other autonomous communities with much more budgeting. Right now we're on the farm, and we have to get the Basque Country and Navarre, which has a financing system that shouldn't be comparable to ours. But, hey, we're at the level of Catalonia where we transferred to the municipalities unconditionally. Then there are up to 450 million people who go every year in different transfers to the municipalities. Listen, because around 80% is distributed or finalistically through the background or in an absolutely objective way through grants — almost all of competitive competitions and some, by a series of questions that can always be explained, by a non-competitive competition system. But nothing, as much as they repeat that mantra that there's a lot of money for agreements and there's very little money for competitive competition, it's not. And the numbers are there to prove it. Of course we have to adjust, yes. And I know that the Fegamp repeatedly — not now this new directive, but the previous one — was always asking us to meet with them that many of the money they share by subsidy would be put into the Local Cooperation Fund and be unconditional. Look, we always said we agreed, but if you ask your fellow concelers at the Fegamp, they will also tell you that it was never possible to determine it when we arrived at that stage of realization, that is to say — the grants that you distribute to the Galician Union — which should disappear and be integrated into the unconditional background. We've never been able to reach an agreement because there were always some municipalities that said yes, others that said no, and in the end that couldn't be realized. The new president of the Fegamp — like the previous ones — will be able to say that the Council of Galicia has always said, "Yes, identify with us those subsidies, that there is a general agreement in the Fegamp that we should no longer split by orders and go to the bottom, and then the Union of Galicia will have no problem." Well, there's a second replica left. But, Mr Bará, I think we have made a good deal of progress over these years in funding. I fully agree that it will never be enough to finance the municipalities, because it is also the subject of their own and inappropriate competences. By the way, we finally reached an agreement to conduct an independent study with which it would be own and which is inappropriate, which is being financed in each administration and which should be financed by another. Man, I think there's been significant progress. The Local Cooperation Fund is a conquest from which we all have to feel very proud. And, of course, there's not much less the sectarianism you denounce or the percentage of money distributed by a system other than competitive competition. It's not like that at all. And in the second part of the replica, if you like, we can talk about concrete examples. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u133	Thank you, Vice President. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. Bará's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u134	Well, let's talk about specific cases, Mr. Rueda, without any problem. But first of all, I want to tell you that you are receiving state funds for certain extraordinary expenses and the municipalities are not seeing a dog, they are not seeing even a euro. And that's not fair, Mr. Rueda, because they're assuming powers that don't correspond to you. [[Applause]] They're taking on skills in cleaning and extraordinary disinfection, for example, which is a lot of money they don't care about. And, of course, you say that we have suffered a discriminatory system in the distribution of municipal funds and that the BNG has done nothing to one Member we have in Madrid. But, of course, you've been ruling with an absolute majority of the state government for eight years, and you've had the opportunity to change this unfair system. [[Applause]] What are they doing? [[Applause]] It's a BNG deputy's fault. [[Applause]] You've been ruling with an absolute majority and you haven't solved this problem. But what are you talking about, Mr. Rueda! Look, there's no problem with talking to you about the deputies. Nice to meet you! I've got the data here, in addition. And I also spoke many times with municipalities, governments and mayors and mayors of the People's Party who are delighted because they now receive much more than they received before, because they spend much more money on the Plan Town Councils than they were intended before. [[Mr. Bará Torres shows a paper from the stage.]] I have here the data, for example, from Pontevedra: in 2015, 30 million; now, more than 42 million from the Town Hall Plan. And besides there are other calls for grants that go to the Town Councils. They're delighted! I have data here for council, and everyone receives more now — all!, those of the People's Party too. They get more now than they got before when they ruled you. What are you talking about, Mr. Rueda? And I also have the data from the Deputy of the Crown — if you like, pasols. Look, in the last year of the People's Party, 36 million. [[Mr. Bará Torres shows a paper from the stage.]] Do you know how much it is now divided into the Town Hall Plan? More than 100 million euros! 45% of the budget of the Coruña Deputy goes to the Town Councils, and with very flexible criteria for spending on works, which you don't have, which take out calls for grants in April, May or June, ends the deadline in October, leaves the resolution in mid-October and they have to justify it in fifteen days. Parliament has a lot more flexibility. You should also learn from the Deputy of the Crown in these things. And I also have the data, like, of the "baltarate" of the Oresan People's Party. Look, it's less than 10% for the Town Hall Plan; the rest for the People's Party. Dice for the People's Party! [[Applause]] I'll pay you, if you like, the graphics. [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Rueda, the Low Limitia, is blue. [[Mr. Bará Torres displays a document from the stage.]] Do you know which one? The blue is the People's Party, the red is the Socialist Party, and the clear blue — which is not seen because it doesn't receive anything practically — is the BNG. And that's the reality. Of course, you don't see it because you don't give it, because you leverage it, because you misunderstand it. [[Applause]] Because this is misappropriation of public funds, you can't call it otherwise. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Citizens cannot be discriminated against depending on who rules their municipalities. Look, Guitariz and Allariz -- which end up in "iz" -- have the same number of inhabitants. Do you know how much more Guitiriz receives about Allariz? He receives seven times more because he's from the province of Lugo, because the Lugo Parliament shares money in a more equitable and fair way than the People's Party of Ourense. It would be against The Carballin, with a population also similar: Sarria receives nine times more. Yes, Mrs. Candia, it's so, although you don't like to hear it, because you're making a perverse, obscene use of public money. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Mr. Rueda, look, you're telling me what you want from the Local Cooperation Fund and also from the call for grants. We've already told him that all calls, whatever they may be, go through the Local Cooperation Fund. That's what he's asking of Fegamp, too. But, look, Middle Rural (2018), a list published in the CEO -- I'm not lying, I have it here, you can also consult it -- of 46 agreements signed, 45 are for People's Party councils. This is indecency, Mr. Rueda, yes. Agency Galaga de Infrastructuras (May 2019): 12 Conventions for People's Party Town Councils. This is indecency. I can read them — although I don't have time —: Abogondo, Lousame, Carral, Coirós, Pararamo, Vilalba, La Gudigna, Ourense, Beariz, Larouco, Sardinian-Cotobade — a classic—, Salvador de Mine. And the curious thing about this is that in the same region you have the indecency to make agreements with the People's Party councils -- in Crescente (in Paradant County), in Arbo, in Mine Rescue -- but those on the side that are other parties have no right to agreements. This is not fair, this is antidemocratic, Mr. Rueda. Agency Galaga de Infrastructuras, another. In the third quarter of 2018, 12 conventions. They're in the DOG. Eleven are for People's Party Town Councils. And they always put one there to conceal, but they're for the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u135	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u136	Infrastructure Agency, in the second quarter of 2018: 8 conventions, and 7 for the People's Party. More than the Infrastructure Agency, and I could be here all day talking to them, but I finish with Plan Hurbe, which is the biggest scandal of the kingdom — of the kingdom no, of the country. We've been asking for the documentation for article 9, and we've been waiting since the past legislation. [[Murmurs.]] We're not going to stop. If we need to go there and get her to the Council. In the last two years there have been 76 agreements signed by Plan Hurbe, which are for urbanism. And of these 76 do you know how many are for the People's Party councils? It's 75.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u137	Thank you, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u138	This is indecency, this can't be accepted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u139	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u140	And I ask you, Mr. Rueda, if you take action...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u141	Thank you, thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u142	...to end this absolutely partisan use...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u143	Thank you, your time is up. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Close the question by the first vice-president and chairman of Justice and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Bará, then people, of course, always say we go into "and you more." But it's inevitable, of course. You come with a direct attack by setting an example, when honestly... now I'm going to give you a couple of digits. And maybe the debate didn't have to be that way, but it's also true that what he gives. So if you repeat lies as a mantra until you think they're going to be true, there's no way to give them the figures to see the "tell me what you assume and tell you exactly what you lack." Look, in the last year of the full Bipartite, the year 2008... of course, we're going to talk about the Bipartite, of course! [[Strong murmurers.]] It's just that you've spent many years -- fortunately -- not ruling the Galician Union, because if you've done what I'm going to tell you in the last year, imagine if you've had more opportunities. But the truth is it's the data I have to draw if we want to make a comparison. In its last full year, in 2008, the city council agreements assumed 160 million euros. The percentage of money from these 160 million were in municipalities governed by the BNG, the PSOE or a coalition was 87.5%. That's the difference. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Would you like more examples of his huge pulritude? I've already told you that what we know most is that of the Pontevedra Parliament, because we know people who are there. Look, that's very good about the One Plan, and you always say that all mayors and mayors are delighted with what the Deputy of Pontevedra now does — according to you. Then there's one asking around and reality is very different. But, look, outside the Single Plan, a lot of money is distributed through other plans too. They give them other names, and they don't give them that much publicity. Because we have to talk about the One Plan, but I'm telling you two other: Plan of Rebalance and Plan DepoRemse. It's a total of 29 million. Do you know how many of those 29 million, as a percentage, go to municipalities that are not PP? 68%. [[Murmurs.]] Let's go a little further. Of those plans that go outside the Single Plan -- that is, split-to-finger plans -- you know, of the ten municipalities they've received most, how many are from the PP and how many are from the Block and the PSOE? I'm 2 from PP, 8 from Block and PSOE. Of course, you've got it perfect! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And last thing. Of the municipalities that have been left without these plans that you give out and the ones that don't give them publicity, but it's a lot of money, the empty municipalities, the 12 municipalities that haven't received at all any of these plans given to you, do you know how many are from the PP? I'm 11.11 from the PP that they didn't get anything for 1 anything else. This is your transparency, Mr Bará. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So what did we come to talk about? What did we come to talk about? [[Applause]] It's a shame, but I'm telling you not to be quiet, we can grant, and therefore, without being at all certain the data you give, I've already told you what is given by competitive competition against what is given by agreements... yes, yes, our whole thing is in the CEO, and these plans that I tell you do not appear anywhere. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They have to dig a lot of my fellow Members of the Pontevedra Parliament in order to give the real figures. If you yourselves recognized that they now command there and have to rebalance to put things more or less the same and therefore have to give many things to your finger! No, if that argument seems good to you and then you'll come out saying that you're objective, that you have to shamelessly favour the municipalities that are not from the PP so that the PP municipalities learn what's good and learn who's sent now! That's what they came to say as well, that's what they say about transparency, those who always denounce the sectarian distribution of others. Mr Bará, ask a little what you are doing to yourself, and perhaps, frankly — and with all due respect — you would fall into the shame of coming here to give examples of things you cannot set an example, honestly. Because the numbers are what they are. And if we didn't have to be responding to this -- I certainly won't shut up -- we could be talking about other things. As bad as we're talking to Fegamp, as much as it seems to bother you a little bit that we can negotiate with Fegamp and we can continue to reach agreements. And we're gonna keep doing it. In fact, "Water Sogam," as if it were called "Water Sogam" to something... And they say, "To make friends, they call it Sogama." Hey, because you're the best customers in Sogama, huh! You'd have to see what would be from Pontevedra Town Hall if Sogama didn't exist. Well, we're actually going to make a financing proposal too, to see if the Members want to come in, to definitely give you rational planning and extend a whole network of adequate sanitation to the twenty-first century throughout Galicia. That's what we're going to suggest, to see how you all respond. Let's see how they respond! [[Applause]] Just as I'm curious that you haven't put anything into the pact, in that big government pact that they signed -- I insist, not running in 100 percent -- with that only member that sometimes is worth everything and sometimes it's not worth anything because it's just one. Turns out they forgot any reference to the funding of the Greek municipalities because, as a whole, the PP had been before and had not done anything, why are you going to bother? Why are they going to try? Why are you going to say that's what's important? Why are they going to say they can, and everybody's gonna get it, and they didn't even put it in because they didn't wake up? What's wrong, it didn't matter, and now you don't have to give it to her? We always said that we were in agreement with the distribution system that was being made from the central government — even when it ruled the PP — about Galicia. And there were agreements here in Parliament and we voted in favour, and we sent them to Madrid. Of course, they say you didn't have the ability to influence the government! Well, in the end it's the same thing. What's going on is that we're not the whole day that you're going to turn everything around because they've signed a pact that's going to make wonders, where neither the funding has been agreed upon. So I — and I will finish now, Mr President — believe that we will continue to talk to the Fegamp, the government who governs it, be composed as if it were composed, because I think it is very beneficial that agreements between administrations are reached. If you want to be there, perfect; if you don't, keep setting examples, that then at the end, when we give you the real figures, I'd honestly shut up. You won't shut up, but I honestly, with these examples, would shut up a little more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u145	Thank you, Vice President. We suspended the session until 4.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u146	Good afternoon. We resume the session with the seventh item on the agenda, which are the questions to the Government. Change in the development of the plenary session
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u147	There is a change here in the order of the day that has already been consulted and commented on by the spokespersons. Question by D. Martín Seco García and Da María del Carmen Rodríguez Dacosta, from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the judicial proceedings being carried out at the Centre Tecnologique da Carne
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u148	You have the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u149	Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you, President. Counsellor, in the Galician Technology Park, located in the municipality of San Cibrao das Viñas, Ourense, is located the Centre Tecnologico da Carne; a foundation led by a patronage and a protectorate formed by members of the Rural Environment Council with the aim of dynamising and improving the competitive capacity of the Galician agri-food sector and promoting the research and technological development of the sector through various means such as technical assistance to companies and producers, analysis in their laboratories or training. A foundation that has collaboration agreements with universities, sectoral associations, training entities, technological centres, etc. But, unfortunately, Counselor, this foundation is under suspicion. It was already in 2017 when a judicial investigation was conducted with the intervention of the Specialized Crime Unit, UDEV, and the U.S. police station in order to clarify alleged irregularities in the management of the technology centre. The alleged commission of possible crimes of prevarication, documentary falsehood and embezzlement of public funds has been investigated in recent years. In addition, the agents who intervened in the register, according to the one published in the media, carried cash registers. The investigation was reportedly initiated by a complaint to the Prosecutor's Office for a supposed diversion of money: public funds received from Brussels and from the State and autonomous administration for the launching of research, development and innovation projects amounting to more than two million euros. At that time, the Rural Council gave no explanation on this matter, when a union had already claimed a year earlier from this council that it had opened an internal investigation file, which they had not done either. Administrative and accounting practices under suspicion of corruption and the Rural Council, not mu. Your Honor, the foundation has not been exempt from serious labour conflicts either: complaints of harassment of work and arbitrary discrimination - it recommends the declaration of nullity of a dismissal of a pregnant worker - from fraud of law in contracts and the controversy of the denial of telework to one of the workers. It doesn't end there. Last September 27th, a month ago, we met by a German newspaper a new police operation around the Meat Technology Center. In this new act, more than half a dozen people connected to the centre are being detained before the courts and then released, who have in their administration what was the general director of Ghent of the Rural Council. Today, ladies and gentlemen, continue your work as manager, despite...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u151	...open investigations. We ask them to explain the situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u152	Answer from the Middle Rural Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u153	Mrs. Rodríguez, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all. It's a public servant's job to always explain to the citizenry, represented in this Parliament by the different groups present here. So I appreciate the question and the fact that I can be here transferring the information I have. As I say, this afternoon and in this answer I can give you the information I have at this moment; yes, we must make it clear that part of the information you ask for in your question is only fair today. In relation to the research you refer to in the oral question this afternoon, we have a record of the existence of a diligence in the Court of First Instance No. 2 of Ourense, in which certain files of the Meat Technology Center are being investigated, and these diligences form part of a single procedure that begins, as you said, in July 2017. In these proceedings, the Council, of course, lent all the collaboration required and forwarded all the documentation and information requested by the judgment. In any case, the Galician Union is not personified in the above-mentioned procedure, and, given the secret nature of the diligence, we lack more information about the concrete actions and research being carried out. In any case, the principle of prudence also requires waiting for the result of the aforementioned investigation to be able to know whether there has been some kind of irregularity in the management of that foundation, and, if that is the case and if necessary, for the characterization of the Galician Union as possible damaged. We are fully in line with the principles of justice, providing, in addition, all the information required, and we hope, like you, that everything will be clarified as soon as possible. As soon as more information is available, she'll be transferred. Trust in the judiciary is certain to be shared by all of us in this House. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u154	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u155	Thank you, President. Counsellor, we believe in this party, in the PSdEG, firmly at the beginning of presumption of innocence and summary secret, but the People's Party uses this different principle, which is: now it plays and now it doesn't touch. He played in Madrid when Mr. Casado, his head of line, constantly appealed to him in "Kitchen Operation", but it does not seem to matter when they continually ask for the resignation of the vice president first in Madrid to Mr. Sánchez. But, well, with the doubts of this judicial investigation, on the same day that it was published, the People's Party requested the creation of another applied agricultural research foundation based on this current investigation. In Ourense, Counsellor, we do not need any more chiringuits in Mr Baltar's service without first explaining the situation in which the foundation is required after judicial intervention for such serious crimes. If you don't, Counsellor, if you don't explain it, you'll be complicit and politically responsible, if the judicial investigation results in the imputation and subsequent conviction of some of the investigators. We also want to know, Counselor, if you intend to keep the manager of the technology centre in charge, who has already been Director General of the Rural Environment with you. There are no more bomb and plate policies, and there's a concern about betting on the value added to the rural research sector, because the data shows the opposite: systematic abandonment of the research system and a mercenization of everything that comes to the Council. They wager the incorporation of new researchers and the formation of new researchers and modernize the centres. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u156	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta. For the closing of the question, the Middle Rural Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u157	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Rodríguez, first of all, I want to tell you that I think you have sufficient legal training to realize that some of the things you moved are not very right. I take the word again to be able to complete this turn and define some of the elements that may not have been sufficiently clear in the previous answer. Look, the research that brings us here today is open, and the summary — I repeat — is a secret. If it hadn't, there would have been little room for the doubt, because the facts would have been clarified. But, certain information that you're asking could only give justice, not Galician Union. And justice has not yet been pronounced. As you have heard in the previous answer, I can now give you the information I have. The facts that you narrate, the facts that you said before they were in September this year, I repeat, are the continuation of a procedure initiated in July 2017, not a new procedure. And at that time Ourense's 2nd Instruction Judge opened pre-delice proceedings and secret acts. Justice, within this open research in July 2017, requested documentation and information from the Rural Media Council, which was delivered every time it was requested and always with the greatest diligence possible. The principle of prudence requires waiting for the result of the aforementioned research to be able to know whether there has been some kind of irregularity in the management of the foundation and, if that is the case and if necessary, the characterization of the Galician Union as possible impaired in that investigation. I finish by finishing my first intervention: confidence in the judicial powers is certain that it is shared by all in this House, and since the Galician Union we will always continue to collaborate with justice with the greatest possible diligence. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u158	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Da Rosana Pérez Fernández and two other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the position of the Government of Greece regarding the expansion of the services of the Instituto Tecnologico para Control do Medio Marine de Galicia at weekends and holidays
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u159	You have the floor to Mrs. Pérez Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u160	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Madam Counselor, before I ask you my question, I kindly invite you to imagine. Can you imagine, Counselor, a hospital, a health center that closes its doors on Friday evening at 3:00 p.m. and doesn't open them again until Monday at 9:00 p.m.? Imagine a hospital without an emergency service and without guards from its staff that guarantees the health of people who attend outside the working hours? So imagine that anyone with acute pain would attend the hospital a Wednesday before the Holy Week festivities and don't do any tests until the next Tuesday, almost a week later, and that's exactly why you have to go to a private lab to solve your problem? So, imagine, while you're still doing your tests, someone goes to a private lab and repeats them because you don't know what they did to you in the hospital? Madam Counsellor, finally, imagine that a hospital, that Sergas, had to compensate a patient with 400,000 euros after a court sentence because you were late warned that your analyses were not correct, and that, therefore, was harmful to your health? Imagine that? So all that, Counselor, is what happens to Intemar, the "hospital" — between quotes — of the marine medium of Galicia. And I'm not talking about your workers. I want to anticipate it. I'm talking about your political leadership. It's a public body that costs us more than 3.6 million euros a year and only tests from Monday to Friday. His actions, the actions of the Intemar, or, better said, his lack of action, instead of being in favour of the sea sector, seem to be going to harm him over and over again. No one understands, Counselor, it is incomprehensible, that a public marine control centre does not carry out analyses on weekends and holidays, which implies that the sector itself does the analysis on its own, and what is worse, it also does in private laboratories during the week, still being made those of the Intemar, because it does not trust itself. It's not the first time that thousands of pounds of shellfish have to be returned to the sea and that, ultimately, a lot of money and hours of work are lost that turn into a slab for thousands of people in Galicia. Counsellor, are you willing to extend the Intemar services to weekends and holidays to avoid further losses to the sea sector? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u161	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez Fernández. Answer from the sea councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u162	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Pérez, as you well know, or should you know, the work of the Intemar has always been consistent with the demands of the sector and the regulations in force. The main task of this centre is to comply with the prevailing legislation on the quality of shellfish production and other marine organisms and to contribute to protecting and improving the quality of the marine environment. The system of control carried out by Intemar is a documented and regulated control system; it is regulated not only at European level but also at autonomous level. Therefore, the work of Intemar is planned qualitatively and quantitatively; quantitatively in the more than 85,000 analyses carried out in 2019, which exceed the annual average of the last decade, and in the more than 7,400 food safety resolutions and reports issued in that same year. And qualitatively, this centre is meeting and adapting strictly to the European Union's guidelines on controls, testing and analysis, which makes Galicia have the control programme in areas where mollusc production is most intensive throughout the European Union. In this sense, being a world reference center, which has a great and recognized experience in matter, we have to refer to this situation, and that is why the functioning of the Intemar has been having a trend of growing budgets since 2013. Moreover, the effectiveness and agility of the Intemar cannot be doubted, nor should the results be transmitted quickly. It is the only laboratory in the whole European Union that has this information available to researchers and all citizens in real time. Thus, both opening and closing resolutions are published on the Intemar website at the same time they are issued, and are notified immediately by email to more than 500 recipients. In any case, and as far as you are concerned, it should be stressed that the Intemar, on the basis of the controls it carries out, establishes the closures and openings of the production areas affected by this phenomenon to protect public health and the quality of the products from the sea. And this, in accordance with and according to the sector entity that organizes the work in the Noia River, was what led to a cautious closure, but also accompanied by a thorough follow-up of the state of the areas, which greatly exceeds the minimum frequency set in the European legislation of a sample per week. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u163	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply, Mrs. Pérez Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u164	Counselor, allow me to disagree with you. The service sheet of the Intemar is very, very, very improved. The complaints of the debugger sector, producers, exporters and cooks are common. The most recent, indeed, is the eruption of the toxin in Noia, which was not seen and which was detected by the confrere on Sunday, September 27. And thanks to these private, paid analysis of the confrere's pocket, he was able to communicate to the more than 1,500 seafarers who weren't working the next day. But it's just that, besides, Counselor, at the Intemar they lie, and they lie in writing, not in word, because, look, at 8.15 a.m. on Monday, 28 - 8.15 a.m. - they notify you in writing to the confrerery the precautionary ban to go seafood. At 8.15, Counselor!, when you don't look at the Intemar during the weekend. They've used their own private analyses of the Girl's Confirmary. And the last, Counsellor, in the follow-up commission on the state of the Eume, held yesterday, the person who attended representing the Intemar, said that they don't take data directly, but through the confrries, that they actually have to pay; it's the confrries that transmit it to the local biologist of the Council. Finally, the world on the contrary, instead of transmitting the Intemar to the sector, transmit the sector to the Intemar. But he said more, he said that they have three fixed sampling stations at the beginning of the shellfish zone at the end of the Eume River, but that they take samples -- let's put their hands to the head -- monthly, Counsellor, and that as the last ones were at the end of September they don't touch the following until the end of the month. With it falling on the Eume River, in the Eume district and in the stream, they won't do any tests until the end of October! That's right, at the meeting of the Intemar they warned that the problem could remain...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u165	Thank you, your time is up. [[Mr Pérez Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] For the closing of the question, the sea councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u166	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Pérez, look, I formally invite you to visit the Intemar so that you really know how the operation of this centre is; a centre that is continuously undergoing audits from both the European Union's Permanent Veterinary Office and Enac's certification audits, which come to say that official controls are carried out on a risk basis, with appropriate frequency and in accordance with documented procedures, as required by Regulation 882/2004. In Galicia, decisions following follow-up are taken in accordance with all the legislation of the European Union. You come here and confuse everything. Come here and say we had to close on Monday, September 28, with positive results from a private lab. That's not how it is. At no time did Intemar detect any positivity value as far as marine toxins refer to. What happened was that the Confraria de Noia, as an agency manager of a seafood bank, welcoming the possibility that the promoter has to do self-control, commissioned a private lab some analysts that gave him a positive result, but that doesn't mean that the result was really positive, since the 13 samples that were taken in the Intemar with an officially accredited method, in no case have given any positive value. [[Laughter]] Therefore, the closing that was to be made was a cautious closure at the request of the Lady's own chief Confirmary, based on a result of a private laboratory, which I will not criticize. [[Applause]] The only thing I'm here to defend here is the accuracy with which we work in the Intemar, with techniques that are documented by external audits, both of the European Union and of Enac, which is the accredited entity. You come here and mix the subject of toxins with the follow-up of the quality of the production zones and mix the Eume River with lipophilic toxins. It has nothing to do with each other. The possibility of setting up the toxins is done directly by taking samples by staff of the Intemar. The quality samples of the waters are carried out through the technical assistance of the confrries - which are biologists too - and collect the samples with the periodicity laid down in the Community Regulation. In no case can you confuse samples of water that are taken to know the quality of the production areas with the samples of phytoplankton that are taken to detect whether or not there is toxin. I repeat, there has never been a closure in the line of the girl in this situation by a positivity criterion obtained with an accredited laboratory method. Of all the samples that were taken, which were exactly 13 in 10 days, the 13 results were negative. So don't confuse public opinion, don't confuse anyone, go to Integmar and inform yourself, that the Intekmar does the double job: on the one hand, ensuring consumer health and on the other hand, making it easier for most of us...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u167	Thank you, Counselor, your time is up. [[Main Counsellor from the Sea, Quintana Carballo, speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Accumulation of two questions for their joint formulation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u168	Now, two questions have to be answered cumulatively. La María Elena Candia López's question from G.P. Most popular of Galicia, about the valuation made by the Government of Greece of the break-up of negotiations for the sale of Alcoa plants in the Lucensian Navy From Patricia Otero Rodríguez and D. Martín Seco García, from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the performances that are taking place in Junta of Galicia in the face of the crisis of the plant of Alcoa in San Cibrao
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u169	He begins by asking Miss Elena Candia, of the Popular Parliamentary Group. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u170	Good afternoon. Counselor, ladies and gentlemen. This morning we attended again a debate on a matter that concerns us very much the neighbors of the Navy, the province of Lugo and I am convinced that throughout Galicia; a debate that, theoretically, ended with the unanimity of asking the Government of the State and the Government of the Union to take all measures to save the jobs in Alcoa, at the primary aluminium factory in San Cibrao. But at the scene of each political group we saw clearly and contextualized data that I think are important before I ask the question as soon as I have. First of all, we clearly saw a Galician Nationalist Block that called for urgent intervention. It was presented in a perfectly clear and clear manner that that January 2020 picture was the picture of the biggest deception BNG had in our marine region and that, of course, had not guaranteed any solution for our factory. Secondly, we also saw a Socialist Party not determined, even painfully, in doubting the vote, and of course with no tranquility about the work that the Government of Spain would do to convey a message of tranquillity to our workers. Today, Counselor, tell me - and I thank you, in addition, for your concern - your work, the work of the Government of the United States, for following this which is the main crisis for us in our region. We know that September 27 has expired the deadline for negotiating the sale of Alcoa factories in the province of Lugo. In these weeks Alcoa systematically refused all the offers that were placed on the table, both from the Liberty House group and from the Government of Spain, to buy the plant temporarily and sell it immediately to Liberty. From the People's Group we are convinced that the situation can be renewed with the help of all the administrations involved and that Alcoa is still in time to recapitulate and reflect on the consequences that its decision will have for the workers and their families; ultimately, for the economy of the Navy region. That is why we have asked you the following question: how does the Greek Government value the break-up of negotiations for the sale of Alcoa plants in the Ludense Navy? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u171	Thank you, Mrs. Candia. The question is now put by Ms Patricia Otero, of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u172	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Well, Mrs. Candia, that you start your question by throwing balloons out and blaming the Alcoa situation on the Nationalist Block in Galicia and also the Socialist Party, the truth is that it's quite lacking the truth. And it's true that you have little memory, because it turns out you already had the solution to the problem. Already in 2012, the then Minister Soria approached the factory doors and said that in January 2013 the problem of electricity tariff would be solved, and we're in 2020. Minister Soria said it and he repeated...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u173	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u174	...the words of Mr. Villares, who I think you both know. So, well, let's be a little coherent. Mr. Conde, you have a serious problem with your industry spokespersons, in the morning with Mr. Tellado and right now with Mrs. Candia. Because you're talking about unity lately, you're talking about collaboration between the Central Government and the Galician Union in search of a solution to keep the Alcoa jobs and so that the Cubans, the workers' unit, the unit between administrations... and, of course, the spokespersons of the Popular Parliamentary Group arrive today and what they did was try to boycott and attempt to break up that unit displayed by all parliamentary groups and that was also seen last week at the Congress of Deputies. And you know why they put that unit at risk? All in such a way as not to place duties on the Council of Galicia, only on the Central Government. But look, ladies and gentlemen, we have not changed our position, we have approved this initiative in which the Central Government is urged to take all necessary measures to ensure industrial activity and employment in the factory and, if necessary, temporary public intervention, to transfer it to a buyer. By the way, resolution on the amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group in the Congress of Deputies to the initiative put forward by the BNG. We understand that the resolution we are voting on today would be more complete if we also placed our duties on the Union, because, of course, it has competences, it has competences in the field of work and has environmental competences as well, but the People's Parliamentary Group has duties on Madrid, yes, but you owe it to the Council of Galicia, no. Look, this parliamentary group, the central government, and also the Galician Union itself prefer the sale so as not to give Alcoa any kind of benefit. We do not oppose, and we do not remove from the table that public and temporary intervention, if the case has come, it must come to that. What we think is that we don't have to wear out and cross that bridge before we get to the river. What we're asking today is, what is the Council of Galicia doing to solve this problem? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u175	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. Response from Vice-President Second and Economic, Enterprise and Innovation Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Candia, Mrs Otero, I would like to thank the two parliamentary groups who bring the situation of Alcoa to this Parliament and, therefore, that one can once again express that there is a joint work and above all that there is a unit of action to achieve an objective. Because that's what we've been pushing since the Galician Union, which is nothing more than a tank that stops and that industrial activity can be maintained in Alcoa San Cibrao. It's the only goal we've been working on all these months and it's the goal I'd ask you to keep it from the point of view of consensus and unity of action, because that's just what the workers are asking us to do. So, Mrs. Otero, this isn't about putting anyone's duties here, it's about just working together, which is what we're doing with the Government of Spain and the Council of Galicia, each in the wake of their competences. We are working in a coordinated way and with that single goal, as I say, of maintaining that industrial activity. Logically, for us — also for the Government — sales is the best option, without doubt, but it is also true that if the company maintains this unilateral decision not to reach an agreement, because logically we do not discard any kind of administrative and legal measure to ensure the continuity of industrial activity and hence the continuity of jobs. Both the People's Party, the Socialist Party and the Galego Nationalist Block showed such a consensus; so I don't think we should transfer any wrong message. In September, the three political groups adopted the non-law proposal put forward by the People's Group to ask the Government to actually set a competitive electric price. We all know the needs of the electrointensive industry in Galicia and Spain to have that competitive electric price and, at the same time, to agree to show the commitment to assess which projects of the Liberty Industrial Plan for Alcoa factories could opt for the European Reconstruction Fund. And we show this consensus also last week at the Congress of Members by approving the Government's request for a temporary public intervention in case it was necessary, and so we also ratified it this morning in Parliament. So, I think the roadmap is perfectly traced. There are two administrations that are working together to achieve that goal, and then, I don't think we have to look for any kind of duties. I remind Mrs Otero that from a working point of view the Labour Authority has developed an unprovoked and fundamental work so that right now the challenge of the ERE can really lead to proving that, indeed, Alcoa has developed a work of bad faith throughout the process. There were ten warnings and one last communication from the Labour Authority. So I don't think it's reasonable to doubt that the Galician Council has assumed and developed its competences in the field of work. The workers recognize it, recognize it by the unions, and then I think that would not have to question it. Nor should we question the work that the Galician Union is developing from an environmental point of view, among other things, because the approval of the renewal of the integrated environmental authorisation reminds you that it is a guarantee that the infrastructure, so that the factory can continue its activity. So this government is ensuring at all times that there can really be a future for the Alcoa factory. Another very different thing is that, in fact, both the Government of Spain and the Council of Galicia continue to work to identify all aspects of an administrative nature and all aspects of a legal nature which give evidence and allow us to achieve this objective to ensure that continuity and that guarantee of jobs So I sincerely believe that there are two administrations that are working together with an action unit, the Galician Union and the Government of Spain, and the three parliamentary groups have shown this unanimous agreement to establish that vision for the future. Since then, I believe that the only thing we have to do from Galicia and from this Parliament is to continue to support the workers to achieve that goal, which is nothing more than to stop the tanks and keep industrial activity in Alcoa San Cibrao. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u177	Thank you, Vice President. For the reply, Mrs. Candia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u178	Mr Counsellor, I believe that, at this moment, it is obvious that the workers, families and the main economic sectors of the Navy are asking for solutions. And I repeat my thanks to you for knowing about the commitment and work of the Galician Union. I want this last minute to win the protagonist precisely the demands of the workers. This morning we were handed a letter from the company committee where, once again, they remembered the dangerous moment they were living, the uncertainty about their economies and their families and the demand that we urge the Government to take as many measures as possible, including that temporary public intervention for their subsequent sale to a private investor. Then we must concentrate our strength and our energy. But I also make the statement that later in the debate of this session the committee itself did: that the Government does not answer or confirm the appointment for the multilateral promised last week. I don't want to remember the Soria; it is unquestionable that at the time she put a solution on the table, and it is also unlikely that she didn't come to the moment we are now. No worker at the time of the Mariano Rajoy government had a farewell letter on his head. We can compare it, it's unquestionable, but it wouldn't be real, nor would it be fair. So, it's time — I agree with the advisor — to work together, but it's also time to tell truths, and with the future work of more than a thousand people in the Navy, they're not worth headlines, war screams, or, of course, banners; right now they're only solutions, they're only worth a joint job, which I'm told is being done. [[Murmurs.]] But it's also obvious that time rushes, that next October 28th will hold a view to decide the precautionary measure and that solutions must be placed on the table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u179	Thank you, Mrs. Candia. For the reply, Mrs. Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u180	Thank you, President. The truth is that I am glad that today Mrs Candia brings the demands of the Alcoa workers to this House, which now seems to have finally met them, because the only thing the People's Party — and above all the People's Party of Lugo — was to go to the factory door, but they did not meet with the workers. Welcome! [[Applause]] Welcome, because we all go hand in hand with the workers' demands. It's just that they like to pick up the banners now. [[Applause]] Before the truth was they seemed to have shot at the banners, but now even some were fighting to go forward with the sign. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, Counsellor, the other day, I would value your words and say welcome now, after the autonomous elections, with your demonstrations of unity, collaboration and coordination between the two administrations — between the central and the autonomous —. We were asking him from the PSdeG a long time ago, and we put our hands to get them to come and work with us. Welcome! I really appreciate your willingness, and what I would like, of course, is to keep the two administrations working together — the Central Administration and the Unity of Galicia — to continue to work to find a solution. And they don't let this get in the way of a parliamentary group, because, of course, the unity between administrations is fundamental to solving this problem. You justified what was done at work, and I think that the environmental level also have a lot to go on and that would also serve to solve this situation. So what I was saying in my first intervention was that we preferred selling rather than benefiting Alcoa; I mean, we didn't discard and we didn't put that temporary public intervention as the first option. But if, at the moment, it is necessary, the minister's own words said that all the solutions were above the table. So what I'm asking you to do is to continue in that unit and in that coordination...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u181	Thank you, Mrs. Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u182	...that they have both administrations. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u183	Thank you. To close these questions, the second vice-president and economic, business and innovation advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Otero, I understand perfectly well that when you have to make an assessment of the Socialist Party and when you have to make an assessment of the attitude of the Government, you speak partly, logically, but I would ask you not to confuse yourself. Where there was a change of attitude in Alcoa's position was in the Government, don't confuse yourself. [[Murmurs.]] And who hasn't changed at any time was this Council of Galicia. Surely now you want to shift that attitude from the Socialist Party of Galicia, which was at all times an erratic attitude towards Alcoa; I was more concerned about defending the Government of Pedro Sánchez than about defending the workers of Alcoa. [[Laughter]] So don't be confused because this government at all times clearly identified what were the needs of Alcoa. [[Murmurs.]] Since June 2018 we've been moving the importance of a competitive price for the intensive industry in Spain, from June to June, and we were alone. The Socialist Party of Galicia has at no time been defending the workers of Alcoa, nor the 5,000 families that depend on the electrointensive industries and that competitive electric price. So now don't try to take advantage of a change of attitude on the part of the Government, which I thank. After the autonomous elections, there was indeed a change of attitude on the part of the Government of Spain. And I have no doubt that this Council of Galicia, which has not changed its attitude or position, what it is doing is working with responsibility for the Government of Spain, because the only objective we have is, precisely, defending the position of the workers and thus giving continuity to the 534 families that are currently dependent on the decision made with regard to Alcoa. I told him we didn't change our commitment. The Council of Galicia was the one which, in the wake of its industrial competences — as it could not be otherwise — achieved the construction of the marine gas pipeline, which is what enables it to be competitive today. The help to convert fuel furnaces to natural gas on the alumina plant was another of the measures we also developed since the Galician Union, just as last week we declared the Greek electro-intensive sector essential and strategic. And we're moving the importance that from the Government we can also promote measures for the modernization of the electro-intensive industry through a national recovery and resilience plan for the sector. So we're not going to discard any kind of industrial measure to accompany the project and the industrial plan that in this case is offering Liberty, which would allow you that competitiveness. We have done so over the past few years and we will continue to do so because, in fact, we have an industrial agenda, we have politics and we have clear how to guarantee that competitiveness. And from the point of view of Alcoa -- and already in particular -- of course we will not discard any kind of measure, either from the administrative or judicial point of view, to reverse that unilateral decision of Alcoa. There is no kind of argument that justifies a decision that is currently hurting all sides, and we understand that it is also harming the company itself. Alcoa is forgetting that closing the plant not only means exploding expenses for redundancies, it also means that it has to pay back the EUR 50 million for aid received in compensation for CO2 costs, and it also knows, logically, that it will have to deal with environmental obligations that may arise from the decision it is taking to close the aluminium factory. That's why — I insist — as I moved them to the beginning of the first question, the best way out for all sides, Mrs Candia and Mrs Otero, is nothing but the fact that Alcoa accepts the sale of the primary aluminium plant. We understand that in this way we will achieve that objective as soon as possible, in which we are working the Government of Spain, the Council of Galicia and the workers in a coordinated manner, to solve the situation that has moved us to the company. And, of course, the Galician Union will support any kind of temporary public intervention by the Government, as approved in Congress and also in this Parliament. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen: unit of action and make it clear that the goal is to maintain jobs. We'll keep working on precautionary measures, supporting the workers. The Galician Union will take note of these precautionary measures. We will also accompany the workers in challenging the employment regulation file and will develop all measures necessary to achieve this goal, which is only to ensure the viability and continuity of jobs and industrial activity in Alcoa San Cibrao. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u185	Thank you, Vice President. Question by Mr Ramon Fernández Alfonso and two other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the intentions of the Galician Union with regard to the use of all its powers to enforce the agreements on the maintenance of activity, employment and investment in the centres of Xeal-Ferroatlantica in Cee and Dumbria and hydroelectric power plants
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u186	Mr. Fernández Alfonso has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u187	Good afternoon, ladies. Thank you, Mr. President. The situation of the Xeal company on the Death Coast, the old Ferroatlantic, is very serious, and that counts with particularities that should keep it safe from problems; some particularities that would already want for them many other companies, especially industrial ones and large energy consumers. This is an industrial complex perfectly located in the world railway market, which has a competitive advantage, as it said, unsurpassable to have a future not already peaceful, but full of successes: an electrical supply below the market prices guaranteed by the hydroelectric power plants of the rivers Xallas and Grande and a central associated with industrial activity by virtue of public concessions. But what should be a modeled industrial energy complex, protected and pampered by the German Government is at risk of disappearing. A clean energy project for industrial production, the use of own resources to create industrial fabric and wealth in Galicia, all in the air because of the maneuvers of the Villar Mir group, which for many years has been committed to segregating the industrial activities of electrical production to sell power plants. We have to say that this can't catch anyone by surprise, and less than anyone at the Galician Union, because the same day that the Villar Mir group did with the concessions of the hydroelectric power stations, it presented the judicial resource to get secretaries of industrial activity; the same day. The claim that, in addition to being dismissed by the judge, he deserved the qualification of being a bad-faith business performance. So, knowing the precedents, no one on the Death Coast understands that the Galician Union has cheerfully authorized the recent change of ownership of the company and the hydroelectric concessions in favour of an American fund linked to the Ferroglobe itself. [[Applause]] The situation today is that the current holders of both activities are reducing industrial production by up to 10% of their potential, putting the maintenance of facilities at grave risk and applying to their own manifestly illegal collective measures. Before they start looking elsewhere, I would like to remind you that in the specific case of this new industrial crisis, Junta cannot say that it has no competence. The hydroelectric concessions are the competence of the Union. The Serrabal mining concession, from which the Villar Mir group also extracts the mineral, is also the Junta concession, and even the port of Brens, specifically built to serve the factories, is also the competence of the Junta. Do you have the tile by the handle, so: Mr. Vice President, do you and your government intend to exercise their powers and act to secure the future of this industrial energy complex on the Death Coast? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u188	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Alfonso. Response from Vice-President Second and Economic, Enterprise and Innovation Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u189	It is surprising, truly surprising, that you... I would really ask you, Mr Fernández, to review the minutes of this Parliament and to review in detail the debates that have been held here and the position that held the Council of Galicia in defense of the workers of Xeal, and from there you will surely regret the intervention you have just made. First of all, because what is not received is that you try to transfer the slightest doubt that this government acts according to legality. That, Mr. Fernández, is not welcome, because if you have any kind of doubt you know where you should go. You cannot come here to this Parliament to try to generate the doubt that this government is working under the law. [[Applause]] Mr. Fernández, this government has met on numerous occasions with the workers and the works council and at all times we have moved to them that for us it is irrevocable — I repeat, irrevocable — that the conditions laid down in the granting of Xeal are fulfilled. Unusual! But it's not that you believe me or don't believe me, that this government just demonstrates its actions with facts. You should know how this government has at all times prevented the segregation of hydroelectric power plants and the industrial plant of Cee-Dumbria - 2017 - from taking place. And you come here, three years later, trying to generate doubt whether this government will facilitate the segregation of both activities? Mr Fernández, I would like to recommend that you read the Minutes of this Parliament carefully. This government will ensure at all times that the conditions laid down in the Xeal concessions are met: firstly, to maintain industrial activity and, secondly, to ensure that the activities for the production of railways and the production of electricity are not segregated. The workers don't deserve the fact that you have, from a legal point of view, the situation of this plant. Because, Mr. Fernández, it is not true that the trading of Ferroatlantic shares requires an administrative authorization. That is simply to ignore the rules and, if you do not know them, at least you should be careful when you intervene in this Parliament. He knows that he does not affect the ownership of hydroelectric concessions in the Xallas River and knows that he continues to hold Ferroatlantic – now with the name of Xallas Electricity – the title. Therefore, there was no illegal operation in the operation in which...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u190	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u191	...Challas, Xeal, acquire that plant.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u192	Thank you, Vice President. For the reply, Mr. Fernández Alfonso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u193	Mr. Vice-President, the behaviour of Ferroglobe with Galicia, the company presided over by the son-in-law of Villar Mir, the famous "compiyogui" of King Felipe VI, is the typical behavior of this aristocracy of the Old Regime and which today replicates large corporate corporations, who believe themselves entitled to appropriate everything they have in their sight and who pleases them and does not accept a non in response. They took the plant of R+D+i that was committed to Artexo to Puertollano in an operation that was already severely criticized by this group, but also by the town's popular mayor, in view of the evidence of the company's reprisal against Junta, sending this unrivalled quality ore from the Serrabal mine to both Puertollano and other latitudes through the port of Vilagarcía, in a model of colonial exploitation of our natural resources that Junta should strive to correct and which is precisely the way to get worse from avoiding the blow of Ferroglob in the Coast of Death, killing industrial activity to segregate through the way of the facts the electrical production of the power plants and to sell them. That's the company's roadmap from the beginning, they've never fooled anyone; they've put a remedy on this. They respect the conditions of the concessions, they make themselves respect themselves as a government. Workers and workers on the Death Coast don't want letters published in newspapers, they don't want calls to the unit, which already exists, nor sterile rhetorics, they want solutions and, by the way, they're in their hands. Now fix what they didn't want to solve before. Neither the Death Coast nor Galicia can afford to have a government in a permanent state of xenuflexion in front of these predatory corporations. Look at the social response, attend to this exercise of collective dignity and act at once with all the consequences.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u194	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Alfonso. For the closing of the question, the second vice president, Economics, Enterprise and Innovation advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u195	Mr. Fernández, from the surprise you turn to anachronism; it is absolutely anachronistic your speech. Here comes the aristocracy, the Old Regime, the exploitation, the depredation... its ideology will not guarantee the continuity of Xeal's jobs. It will not guarantee its ideology the solution of employment. [[Mr. Fernández Alfonso speaks words that are not perceived.]] The only guarantee the workers have at this time to know whether their jobs will be able to maintain is the firmness of this government to maintain the two essential conditions that are imposed on concessions - I reiterate - to continue with the railway business and the non-segregation of railway production and hydroelectric energy production activities. That's how we solved it in 2017, so we kept it, and so we're going to keep it. And as much as the Galego Nationalist Block comes with this anachronistic, ideological discourse, just trying to have a picture, it's not going to give them a solution to the jobs. So, what if I were to give you solution and guarantees, more guarantees, even to increase the template in Xeal, would be that the Nationalist Galego Block, instead of taking photos of the Socialist Party, would actually join the Galician Union and the People's Party in order to impose a competitive electric price. Because, you know what's going on? That Xeal, in 2017, received — listen to the accounts — 28 million euros in terms of CO2 interruptability auction. Do you know how much you're going to receive in 2020 from those 28? Two, two, Mr. Fernández! You should be worried about the electrical system regime that affects electro-intensive companies, such as Xeal. And if you, instead of wasting your time in ideology, which doesn't take anywhere to the workers, if you really focused on what you need that plant, which is at a competitive electric price, you'd probably be doing a great favor to the workers and, of course, to this government. [[Applause]] So don't get confused, Mr. Fernández and don't confuse the Galician Nationalist Block. We have shown that the Galician Union always acts in accordance with the law, always defending public interest and always defending workers and employment. That's how we've proven it in Cee-Dumbria, and so we'll continue to prove it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u196	Thank you, Vice President. Question by D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and three other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the actions planned by the Government of Greece to defend the jobs of the company Madeira Iglesias, of the Porriño
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u197	Mr. Bará Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u198	Mr. Conde, we have come here with our ideology, which is the ideology of defending the interests of this country, the working class of this country, the jobs of honest people, humble, struggling and worker, like the 148 women — most of them — and men who still work in Madeira Churches of many municipalities in the south of Pontevedra province, such as Salvaterra, The Porriño, Ponteareas, Mos, Vigo, Salceda, Tui, The Snows, Round it, Tomineño..., up to 16 municipalities in the south of Pontevedra province, and 148 jobs that are currently at peak because of the mismanagement of business and also the inaction of the Junta de Galicia. [[Applause]] They are currently in a critical situation because of the judgment of Judge No. 3 of the Porriño, who ordered the auction of the factory to deal with the debt to banking entities, which exceeds 35 million euros. And we want to draw attention, Counsellor, right now — it is our ideology — to the importance of jobs in industry, and more than ever to the economy of the region for the impact, in addition, so positive that it has industrial employment in these areas. We need to put a stop to the loss of businesses and industrial employment that suffers from this region, and now, precisely with this crisis we have on top, it is not time to close companies, it is time for a reindustrialization plan across the South of Pontevedra province. And the Junta, Mr. Count, can't remain impassable. Look, I'm going to tell you one thing, you're on a birthday tomorrow, on the seventh anniversary of this photograph, when I kept an idyllic, a real idyllius, with Madeiras Iglesias's entrepreneur, visited the factory and put it as an example: "Counte put Maderas Iglesias as an example of a company capable of overcoming difficulties through quality, innovation and internationalization." [[Mr. Bará Torres shows a photograph.]] Now you're missing, don't show up, Mr. Count. I used to take pictures of the businessman and now he's gone. So what we want to tell you here is that we really welcome the fact that thanks to the things that have happened in the past few days, mainly to the mobilization of workers and also to the questions that this group has asked you, you'd move in. Igape called the company committee and there was a meeting this Monday with the investor and also with the creditors. But this is not enough, Mr. Conde, we want you to receive the company committee -- this is a representation, you have an opportunity today to receive them, you deserve an explanation on your part -- and also call that table that we ask you with all the parties to look for solutions and a way out of the future to defend these jobs. What are you going to do, Mr. Count, because so far they haven't been able to solve the situation?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u199	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. Mr. Conde López has the floor of the second vice president and councillor for Economics, Enterprise and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u200	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Bará, with all your affection, when you talk about ideology, defending jobs, what do you mean, Elnosa workers, the Ence workers, those in the automotive sector in Vigo, when you didn't support the amendment of the law so that PSA could make the investments? Where's that ideology? Your ideology is that, when they ruled in the Bipartite, they gave Alfageme an endorsement of 30 million euros and gave them a break to the Greeks; is that their ideology? [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Look, Mr Bará, credibility, I think it has to be a fundamental value for pursuing a policy in the service of solutions. I greatly regret that you have been wrong in your account, and the worst thing is that you do it consciously; you do it consciously. And I'm saying this because, when you try to transfer that the Galician Union is not acting, you know it's not responding to the truth. You know that the Galician Union has been conducting numerous meetings with workers, companies, financial institutions and investors since 2009. You know perfectly well that the Galician Board has been permanently supporting this company; you know perfectly well that Madeira Churches did not go through investors who wanted to bet on that plant; you know perfectly that this plant has EUR 35 million in debt with financial entities, in addition to the debts they have with other suppliers; and you know perfectly that the Galician Board is currently mediating with credit institutions, but you also know perfectly that there can be no solution for any company if there is no solvent and viable proposal to guarantee jobs. Because, Mr Bará - and I would like to remind you very easily - if the proposal of the Galician Nationalist Block is that the Galician Union assumes the losses of 35 million euros that this company has with financial entities, the answer is that no. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u201	Thank you very much, Vice President. For the reply, Mr. Bará Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u202	Mr. Conde, do you know what our ideology is? Our ideology is that all companies are equal before the law, that Ence is not above the law and that there is no rotational gate or favor treatment that covers what you intend to commit, which is an environmental attack. That's why we're not going to pass. [[Applause]] That's our red line, that's our ideology. Mr. Count, you haven't done everything you could. You've been missing for months. And it was thanks to the workers' mobilizations in the last few weeks that they had to attend, it was thanks to us for presenting this question that you had to move tokens to be able to come here saying that Igape has called two meetings in the last few days. That's how things are, that's how they are. But this is not enough, Counselor. We want to ask you here -- part of what I told you before, that I expect your answer -- are you going to receive the company committee? Here are twelve people from the company. I think they deserve their explanations, I think they deserve them. Secondly, Mr. Conde, are you going to ask for your approval or are you going to collaborate with the Board to request that the execution of the sentence be postponed, which is a sword of Damocles right now? What will the Galician Union do in this regard? Are you going to Galician board also negotiating or collaborating for a bank negotiation, with creditors? You were also offering in your moment of glory, roses, and Albarinco with these creditor entities, I suppose you'll also have a direct phone with them and you can do something. Will they support a business viability plan if there is or when it is? Are you going to do something about it? Do you know that investor is betting on the future of this company? What do you think of that proposal? What do you have in this regard? Do you value...? I'm not telling you to take care of that debt, logically, but you can value options like, for example, that XesGalice can participate in that viability plan and an investor's project, if you're an industrial investor, if you're a Greek investor who's betting on this company.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u203	Thank you very much, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u204	What are you going to do, Mr. Count, and what have you not done so far?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u205	Your time is up. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] For the Government's reply, Mr. Conde López has the floor of the second vice president and councillor for Economics, Enterprise and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The truth is, Mr. Bará, his ideology, and above all the auto campaign that comes here to the Nationalist Block of Wales trying to rewrite his curriculum, from the point of view of work, will not help the workers of Mother Churches, unfortunately. What's going to help Madeiras Iglesias workers is what this government is doing, keeping its commitment, started in 2009 - I remind you that in 2009 - because in 2009 we helped refinancing the debt with a surplus of more than 5 million euros. You should know -- and you don't remember -- that in 2013 we helped the company get out of a competitive situation. You should know that in 2018 we will back assist the company in its financing by changing the guarantees. You should also know that in 2019 we helped the company again by facilitating an agreement in the employment regulation file. And you should know that this year 2020 we continue to support the company because what you are asking me for has already done. It's late, Mr. Bará. What you can't come here to take a picture of the workers because they don't deserve it, they don't deserve it, and so, Mr Bará, we'll still try to help you find the best possible solution right now; a solution that has to go through realism. Unfortunately, the situation of the company, as it is being managed, is a really complicated situation, but we're there. We're meeting with the workers, we're meeting with the financial institutions and we're also meeting with the investor, who's also transferring his proposals. So, I think the situation is critical because the company's debt does not allow, Mr Bará, any sort of unrealistic proposals like those that intend to move the Nationalist Block Galego, because permanently and sadly the Nationalist Block Galego makes ideology with employment, makes ideology with industry. Therefore, I believe that in the case of Madeira Churches we will continue to work, we will continue to do everything possible for the financial institutions and the entrepreneur - the entrepreneur, Mr Bará - to feel negotiating to reach an agreement that guarantees that viability. And, of course, the Galician Union will continue to be there -- it's been since 2009, and I've done the whole story to it -- we'll continue to be. All we ask is for a realistic plan to guarantee that viability and, as such, we will be able to collaborate, to help through XesGalice and through Igape. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u207	Thank you very much, Vice President. Question by Mr Miguel Állado Filgueira and six other Members of the G.P. People in Galicia, on the concrete measures which the Galician Union has taken to help workers affected by an ERTE
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u208	To put the question, you have the floor to Mr. Balseiro Orol.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u209	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, the temporary employment regulation files, more known as ERTE, have proved to be an indispensable and very useful tool during the closing process of the economy by the pandemic and now also during the economic reactivation process. It is given the curious circumstance that the ERTEs are fruit of the labour reform that has driven the Government of Mariano Rajoy, the same labour reform promoted in 2012 by the People's Party and that now some political formations, in a fearless and irresponsible way, want to eliminate. ERTEs are a very efficient figure because they give an alternative to workers and businesses in crisis situations, avoiding their dismissal, which was traditionally the common response to such circumstances. These same political formations seem to be unknown that if the People's Government had not implemented at that time as measured by the ERTE today many millions of workers in Spain would be unemployed in this pandemic and the current Government of Podemos and the Socialist Party would have virtually no capacity to maneuver. ERTEs were also the object of analysis during the process of social dialogue initiated in 2019 between the Galician Union and the main interlocutors, i.e. companies and trade unions. Just one such agreement was the launch of a programme that favours the maintenance of employment in the face of economic fluctuations, in particular a line of support for companies and workers in those periods where their activity is reduced. In the current context of the pandemic and the intermittent situation of economic paralysis, this order of new demands has had to be adjusted. At the hardest moments of the health emergency, Galicia had more than 200,000 workers in ERTE. In view of this reality, and with the Government's inability to effect the payment of benefits for months, the Greek Government carried out pioneering initiatives, such as the endorsement of up to 1,500 euros in advance to workers with an ERTE who did not charge the benefits at the time. Madam Counsellor, today we want to assess how these measures worked and, therefore, from the People's Group we have asked you the following question: What concrete measures did the Council of Galicia take to help workers affected by an ERTE and, in particular, what concrete measures did it put together to help workers by an ERTE, since the Central Government was not paying them the benefits at its time? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u210	Thank you very much, Mr. Balsairo. The Employment and Equality Counsellor, Mrs. Lorenzana Somoza, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u211	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. If you'll excuse me, I'll structure this question in two parts. One will focus on sharing with the House the joint work carried out by the Galician Council and the various social and economic agents in order to identify and analyse the impact of the different sectors of the Greek economy, of the different workers and workers affected by the crisis of the coward. And a second part of the intervention will be to take account of the concrete measures that the German Government has taken in the context of this social dialogue, of what I'm telling them to support these affected workers. So to begin with, the first part of the intervention, I would like to talk to you about the Galician Bureau of Self-Employment, as well as the social dialogue forums that are held periodically with the most representative unions and with the Confederation of Galician Entrepreneurs. The first initiative – which has been active since 2016 – and the second – from 2005 – makes it clear that joint work and coordination to create active employment policies is not a result of the current situation of pandemic, alarm or necessity. By means of the Self-Employment Bureau, and as a result of the four meetings held so far this year, we have analysed the problems facing the various economic sectors, determining which are most affected by the consequences of the cod. So, we define what should be the lines of action, some of them in various measures already developed by the Greek Government, and in particular through a new rescue plan that we are designing, prioritising aid to those more sensitive sectors, but also establishing as fundamental the recovery and maintenance of employment. At the heart of the social dialogue we held this year 2018 meetings, and last September 23 was signed by the Self-Government and Social Agents a declaration for Galicia's economic and social reactivation and for the continuation of the social dialogue in the present legislation. A cooperation commitment is called here between the Galician Union and the main social and economic agents of the community to reduce the impact of the pandemic and to be with the citizens in this complex situation. Well, I move to the second point of my intervention, to what point are the concrete measures within this social dialogue of what I'm talking about to them were and are being adopted by the Government of Galicia. The Galician Union at the most complex moments of the pandemic resolved 36,000 ERTE and actively collaborated so that affected workers could access these benefits as soon as possible. Even so, we've put in place advances for more than 3,400 people, pending Central Government, to collect their benefits. The Union has been concerned about the self-employed by launching the self-employed package of measures they already know and we have referred to in this House on other occasions. On the other hand, we approved the Recovery Plan for Night Leisure, EUR 4.8 million, at last Thursday's Council to support one of the sectors that is most suffering from the repercussions of the pandemic. And the next step will be the Rescue Plan for self-employed and micro-enterprises.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u212	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u213	This plan, as announced by the President of the Galician Union, is endowed with 70 million euros and will affect 30,000 autonomous and 100,000 micro-enterprises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u214	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the reply, Mr. Balseiro Orol has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u215	Thank you very much, Counselor. Thank you very much for your answer. You spoke of 18 meetings in the social dialogue, you spoke of 36,000 settled records and you spoke of 3,400 people who, at the most difficult time that we were going through -- logically, because we were confined and nobody thought to be confined -- a few months ago the Government of Spain had to make a payment to them and, as it did not, then, the Council of Galicia had to do exactly what the Government of Spain would have to do, but, as the Government of Spain did not, it had to reach an agreement with four financial entities so that these people, many of their parents, had money to feed their children. For which, once again, the Government of Galicia had to do what the Government of Spain didn't do. [[Applause]] I'll give you some advice, gentlemen. To the Socialist Party, which governs, which governs in Spain, and to the Galego Nationalist Block, which supports that evil government, and has also supported Mr. Sánchez's investment, I have to tell you that to derogate the work reform of the Rajoy Government is right to derogate the ERTE right now. That's the reality. Nor should you forget that now some of your colleagues in Madrid are proud of that work tool that has prevented many workers from losing their jobs, but on their day they voted against, including the current President of the Government of Spain, Mr. Sánchez. That's the reality we find ourselves in. That's why, Counsellor, you just said it and I suppose you will say it in the reply, the Government of Galicia has done the duties, the Government of Galicia has been worried, at the most difficult time, about one of the most difficult moments we've been through in our autonomous community, about the families that needed it at that time...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u216	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo, your time is up. Thank you very much. Your time is up. [[Applause]] For the Government's reply, the Employment and Equality Counsellor, Mrs. Lorenzana Somoza has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u217	Thank you very much. Indeed, the Galician Union has shown throughout this pandemic that it is a united government and an experienced government, and when decisions have to be made with little margin of time because citizenship needs it, it is essential to have a competent government in front of it. As I said in my first speech, the Galician board was the one that solved those 36,000 ERTE, the Galician board was the one who was able to make the advances available to more than 3,400 people, and that same experience has been the one that has shown us for years that in order to move forward any type of plan or project, the autonomous administration must count on the social agents involved, because the success of the results is based precisely on cooperation, and cooperation, as we are doing in Galicia, within the social dialogue. But cooperation must also be between public administrations, and good evidence of this would be - and I say here, in this House - that once and for all the state administration would make the number of ERTs currently active in the community of Galicia, and the number of workers affected by them, available for the benefit of all the autonomous communities. Because we need that data to work, to make decisions, to implement measures. All the rest is working blindly and doubling your efforts unnecessarily. We've been working on a strategy for months, for projects that fit the changing needs of businesses in our community, and we've needed real data on the number of workers affected, the number of companies affected by ERTE. But, as I told you, we are able to take forward support measures for the sectors, support measures for companies, support measures for the self-employed and self-employed in Galicia, thanks to collaboration with social agents and collaboration with the self-employed associations in Galicia. Indeed, with this, tomorrow, as announced by the President, the Council of the Galician Union will give green light to a plan to support self-employed and microenterprises in ERTE in Galicia worth 70 million euros. This plan will give rise to two aid orders, which will be worked and agreed upon within the social dialogue and also within the Galician Self-Government Bureau. [[Applause]] Both the Bureau of Independents and the corresponding working group of the social dialogue are convened for next Friday, because what will authorize the Board of Directors are these 70 million euros that will be defined for the most affected sectors according to what the stakeholders themselves say, which are the autonomous ones and which are the companies. And nothing else. All of this that I have just explained to you, I think it makes clear the intense work that the Government of Greece is developing to articulate the path of economic recovery, to support work, to support the maintenance of employment, both self-employment and that of small and medium-sized enterprises and micro-enterprises, which are in the end and after all most of Galicia's business fabric. For my part, that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u218	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question from Noa Susana Díaz Varela and three other Members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the reasons for the link in the area of Employment Equality in the new council created in Galician Union
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u219	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u220	Good afternoon, Counselor. The pandemic of coward-19 has affected the whole society globally, with social and economic consequences obviously still to be assessed; however, it seems clear that this affect has been much greater for women, who have experienced a regression in their vital conditions to assume more workload in the home, care for dependent or minor people, the modification of their working conditions to adapt to the new reality and even the fact that they have found themselves in a greater situation of vulnerability in cases of gender violence. In view of this situation, we believe that it is the public authorities who have to assume responsibility for mitigating this vital situation of women and implementing policies of positive discrimination to prevent this from happening. What's wrong? For it doesn't seem that equality policies are for you, as it should be, a government priority. With the creation of the new employment and equality portfolio, it could be seen that there is concern or intention to articulate policies in the field of work and professional promotion aimed at countering the inequality suffered by women. Until then nothing to object. But equality transcends many more areas and not just employment. The gender gap exists in all spheres of society, so that the public policies that are implemented should have equality as a cross-cutting axis, efficiently managing available resources and bringing in new ones, in addition to moving forward in new policies in relation to other fields of action, such as education, health, justice or even urbanism. On the other hand, the People's Party -- and here we start with the question -- must think that we're going to believe your concern for equality just by putting that word in the title of a councillor. And I say this, because the newly created Employment and Equality Council had already defined virtually all of its office in the Employment Area, the structure and its initial lines of action, while that of Equality remained in the most absolute forgetfulness until a few days ago, which we knew the Secretary General of Equality would again be Susana López Abella, whom we from here wish for the greatest success. That is why the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia is concerned that the Government of Greece, first of all, had not set up an Equality Council as such, and after it united that competence to a specific field, as is the employment field, which actually seems to be that, the employment, the only task of this portfolio. Of course, knowing that women were the worst injured in this crisis, who are still responsible for care and for that ill-called reconciliation, it doesn't seem to me to receive that carelessness, that beheading for months and a half, not to mention the lack of concrete actions in this period as well. We'd like to know, then, that he motivated that conjunction-link-relationship -- we can use many words -- from the areas of equality and employment in one council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u221	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. The Employment and Equality Counsellor, Mrs. Lorenzana Somoza, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u222	Thank you very much. Member, thank you very much for saying that I had already defined all the lines of employment of the board two weeks ago. And then you talk about cross-sectionalness, when it turns out that all the equality policies of the Galician Union seem to be concrete in the figure of a specific post, which is the General Secretariat of Equality. The Presidency of the Council of Galicia is Equality, the first vice-presidency is equality, the second vice-presidency is equality; each and every one of the Councils of Galicia are equality. And I mean with this, Your Honor, that equality is a cross-sectional action of the entire Government of Galician Union. [[Applause]] The Government of Galicia has made a firm commitment to the Galician society for equal rights and opportunities between women and men; a commitment that has been materializing not now, but for years now in the development of legal, economic and social measures and instruments in the budgets of the Galician Union, aimed at removing obstacles that still persist and preventing gender equality from being real and effective. You ask, ladies and gentlemen, about the reasons for the link of the area of equality and the area of employment in the new councillorship created at the Galician Union. Well, without prejudice to that cross-section, in which I, of course, believe, and that I speak to them about equality policies, we must take into account, and so did the Greek Government, that the incorporation of women into the labour market, the permanence in employment and their working conditions are still far from happening in equality conditions. This is what statistics reveal, which continue to talk about unequal reality in wages, professional promotion, access to sectors and areas still heavily masculinized, as well as the presence in areas of management. And this scenario certainly contributes to the persistence of gender stereotypes, so it is necessary to continue to work for cultural change and values that modify the attitudes and roles that sustain gender inequality. Without a doubt, one of the major challenges for the coming years is the reconciliation of personal, family and work life and co-responsibility at home and family levels. Co-responsibility is the work of society as a whole, public administrations, social agents and private bodies, and we must among all work to encourage it. And I'm speaking from the firm conviction that Galicia's economic, social and cultural advancement will inevitably depend on the fact that women and men leave the same place to achieve the same goals, without the male or female gender being a limitation on the development of the different spheres of human life. In this context, the Employment and Equality Council will articulate public policies to consolidate the achievements of recent times, strengthen measures aimed at eliminating the various gender gaps and situating the foundations to achieve new progress in equality between women and men. For my part, nothing else now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u223	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the reply, you have the floor to Mrs. Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u224	Yes, thank you. Well, in view of the counselor's answer, which I was afraid of, because he didn't respond, let me go to the anecdote in this reply. So I aim to be graphic to show you the concern for equality on the part of this German government. You will see, in your speech as a candidate at the investment session of the Galician Parliament on 1 September, former President Alberto Núñez Feijóo —I say that he was a candidate—he referred once again—once!—to machoism and gender violence, but he never dared to pronounce the word "feminism"—which is what fights, precisely, that machismo and that violence—not the word "woman". Equality centred four paragraphs -- by the way, very short -- in a 56-page speech, and none of those references were associated with employment-related issues. Curious! Five days later, he signed the decree to appoint his new Government, in which, among other things, he announced with great "pump and commitment" -- among other things -- the creation of a new council that would encompass the areas of employment and equality. They're talking about engagement. Well, I'm going back to the anecdote again. The website of the Employment and Equality Council, on the institutional website proper to the Galician Union - which we understand today must no longer be so mere anecdote - is devoted entirely to the employment area, entirely, there is no single line of the equality department or that second half, however cross-sectional. Plus, the Equality website goes on, right, but you'll tell me how a woman arrives that needs to search for some resource urgently on that website. I invite them to do so, to do that exercise. I don't have much more to say, except to ask them to take this matter seriously, because, as I said, it's the women who are worse off in this health crisis, not to mention now also the historical discrimination we've seen going through. They manage, they make employment policies that favor women, yes, but they don't forget -- I repeat -- that equality is a cross-cutting issue to any government action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u225	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. For the Government's reply, the Employment and Equality Counsellor, Mrs. Lorenzana Somoza has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u226	Thank you very much. I can assure you, Your Honor, that the German Government takes gender equality seriously. I don't know if it's to take gender equality seriously to talk about whether the president uses the word feminism and whether this -- the use of the word feminism or machoism -- seems to be fighting gender violence. And I don't know if it's serious about the equality you're talking about on the Employment Council website. Inequality affects women and is the product of a complex and multidimensional reality, which must be tackled from a multidisciplinary perspective and the involvement, as I say, of all areas of government in the Union of Galicia, all administrations and the whole of society. Only in this way can we move forward in eliminating gender gaps in different areas, and, among these areas, of course, and how important is access to employment, improved working conditions, promotion and promotion of the presence of women in the areas of decision-making and influence of social, economic and professional structures. The growth of Galicia, the smart and sustainable increase that we are looking for in Galicia, needs the potential of all of us, so we will continue to work on promoting the creation of jobs for the female population and promoting entrepreneurship from innovation. But it is undoubtedly true that full equality in the workplace will only be possible if there is a fair assumption of domestic work and home care. That's why, as I told you, the Greek Government is making a strong bet on a model of corresponding society. And that's why not only will the awareness of society continue to be fostered in favour of a responsible social organization and more rational schedules, but the resources for reconciling working, personal and family life will be strengthened. Equality, ladies and gentlemen, is a state value, gender violence is a matter of state and the eradication of masculine violence is a duty of state, since masculine violence constitutes the cruelest exponent of the lack of equality of our society and one of the most flagrant attacks on the fundamental rights of people. Preventing machoism and violence against women is a priority and unnecessarily important objective for this government. Eradicating gender-based violence and achieving real equality is a task in which we cannot afford to retreat. It is necessary to launch a round political message based necessarily on agreements, because the greatest achievements are achieved through the commitment of the political and social sectors. We must all be involved in the search for solutions in this area, starting, of course, with public administrations. And, as I tell you, Junta has been working for years to make Galicia an equal community. Finally, since the Employment and Equality Council, we will continue to work against the gender gap in all its manifestations and, like no, access to employment. We will continue to support professional promotion and female leadership, since both the present and future society need it. Real and effective equality is an undeniable goal of the entire Government of Galicia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u227	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Da María Corina Porro Martínez and six other Members of the G.P. Galician people, on which is the evaluation of the operation, activity and result of the measures to prevent the coward-19 implemented through the creation of the passenger register
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u228	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u229	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Covid-19 is a popup respiratory infection caused by SARS-CoV-2. At first, the epidemic focus, as we all know, was located in China, specifically in Wuhan. The epidemic is beginning to spread to other countries, and it's beginning to also detect community infections on more than one continent, which leads the World Health Organization to declare the pandemic on 11 March. In Spain the first case detected was located at the end of January and since then the number of contagions has increased progressively and the high speed. The alarm status was declared on March 14. It was a day earlier, on 13 March, the Agreement of the Council of Galicia declaring the health emergency situation in the Autonomous Community of Galicia which forced a number of transitional measures aimed at ensuring at the same time the safety of health professionals and patients, while maintaining the correct balance in the exercise of the rights and obligations of the citizenship of Galicia. In order to protect the health of all of us and to contain the transmission of the virus and the progress of the disease, a number of measures have been initiated since the Galician Union to prevent virus infection; measures proposed by the Clinical Committee, measures proposed by health professionals and measures in which Galician pioneers have been in many of them, such as the auto-covid, thus getting a quick collection of samples of suspected cases, or also polling technique to make the most large and fast-paced. In view of the developments in the health situation and to address the risks of new outbreaks resulting from the arrival in Galicia of persons from other territories, on 28 July the Health Council published the Order of 27 July 2020 laying down preventive measures to deal with the health crisis caused by the cover-19 in relation to the arrival in the Autonomous Community of Galicia of persons from other territories. Galicia once again sets out a pioneering measure to deal with guarantees in the tourist season, the travel log, which is nothing more than that all people entering the autonomous community from territories with a high epidemiological incidence have to make their data available to the Greek Government within 24 hours of their arrival for the purpose of providing them with information and health recommendations. Given the time since the entry into force of that order, we ask you: How does the passenger log develop and until it continues to operate? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u230	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo. The Health Counsellor, Mr. García Comesaña, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u231	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo, thank you for taking an interest in this matter. Indeed, the tracking system of cases that Galicia has stands out by the evidence of its results, an incidence that has accumulated much below the national average and positivity indexes of PCR also very below it, but it also highlights why we have instruments that nobody else counts with, or at least what Galicia was the first community to count on. When the Galician Union creates this record in our autonomous community, it was the first to achieve what the Government of Spain has called "the new normality"; that is, the result of the exit of the alarm state. From then on it was a matter of time the departure of the alarm state from the rest of the autonomous communities. And it was also announced by the Government of Spain the opening of our country to foreign tourism from July. Therefore, in the month of July to Junta - as you well said - the Order establishing preventive measures to deal with the health crisis caused by the cowardly-19 in relation to the arrival of people from other territories to the Autonomous Community of Galicia. And this order includes the introduction of a data reporting obligation to Sergas of all those people who had been in the 14 days before our community entry into a list of territories where there had been a high incidence of the vault-19 or where reliable data on their epidemiological situation was not available. These citizens must communicate, either by telephone 881002021 or via the Internet, their contact and stay data. On the other hand, the order also established the obligation to inform users of this register of tourist accommodation, travel agencies, tour operators and transport companies. And also the Greek companies with workers, for example, who came from these territories were obliged to report through this mechanism. The order also established measures for visitors who had noticed covid-19 compatible symptomatology, creating warning, isolation and communication mechanisms to the Greek health system. I believe that this instrument was key to the promotion of Galicia as a secure destination this summer and to achieve a tourism season with better results than the national average. But this system is, above all, one more instrument of the Greek tracking and detection system and one more mechanism to guarantee our public health; therefore, this system has come to remain, so the results so support it. And, in fact, last Friday, the Official Journal of Galicia published a new update of the resolution, updating the list of territories from which visitors are required to provide such information. For now, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u232	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the reply, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u233	Thank you very much for your answer, Counselor. Of course, we have no doubt that this record is a good measure to achieve an early detection and diagnosis of any coronovirus infection and to protect, in this way, the health of the Greek citizen. It is clear that the measures taken in Galicia are positively affecting the management of the pandemic in this community. Last Friday there was news of the Ministry's document, which allows, according to common indicators, to qualify and make an assessment of the pandemic. He established four alert levels, and there were only two autonomous communities at low risk: Cantabria and Galicia. Clearly, the tracking system is working in our autonomous community. We even saw in the press yesterday that the indicators of care pressure are of the best in Spain: 3.95 % of beds occupied by patients in the state average of 10.36 %; and 7.29 % of occupied ICU beds, compared to 21.04 % in the state. As a matter of fact, the mortality in Galicia of critically ill patients was much lower than elsewhere, and this is not said by this honourable Member, said the president of the Association of Anesthetics of Galicia. Galicia continues to be one of the three communities - as you said - with a lower cumulative incidence, being far below the national average. Something will have to do with all these measures, many of them — as we have already said — pioneers in the state. You say in your intervention that this system has come to stay because the results so support it. We'd like to know on this second occasion if you can explain these results more often and if the German Government, exercising its health skills, is going to take some action more similar to this one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u234	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo. The Secretary of Health, Mr. García Comesaña, has the floor for the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u235	Thank you, Your Honor. Speaking briefly of the results, I mean that over the four months that have been running the passenger register more than half a million people have registered through this mechanism; half a million people, 86% of whom were from another Spanish autonomous community, and the rest from the foreign community. This half a million people have been given more than 10,000 PCR tests, in this case visitors. And thanks to this record, we were able to detect 951 positive cases for covid-19. In addition, the tracking system has allowed us to locate 2,239 close contacts, quarantine them and make them the relevant tests, through which we detect 653 positives in turn. That is, the total sum of positive cases that we could detect thanks to having implemented this record is 1,604 cases. I believe, therefore, that the evaluation of this system is very positive. It's a more available mechanism for the tracking system in Galicia. It's a pioneering project, as you well said, that helps this system to stand out as one of the most effective. And, of course, the success of this system encourages us to take more similar measures. For example, last September 30 we also included the measure of requiring serological tests or similar tests for teams of sportsmen from other autonomous communities in the field of official state sports competitions; non-professional, of course, always in the case of sports modalities that do not involve contact. On this subject we had a normative lagoon, because these sportsmen spent less than 24 hours in our community, with which, the passenger registration system was not applied to them. But in view of the fact that the High Council of State Sports continues without a clear protocol on this aspect, we have decided to act. I myself informed the Ministry of Health that Galicia was taking this measure in the exercise of its powers in the field of health due to the lack of a response from the State. So yes, we continue to work and if we continue to anticipate and design measures -- sometimes before anyone else -- to provide ourselves with new tools for early detection and control of the virus, especially because, as we have seen, the results show that it works. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u236	Thank you, Counselor. We turned to interpelerations, which were altered in the development of the agenda. Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and two other MPs from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the policy of the Greek Government in relation to the guarantee of health care to citizenship
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u237	To formulate the inquiry, Mrs. Prado Cores has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u238	Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor. When we registered this initiative on September 10, it was already evidence that the number of positive people per coward-19 in Galicia only increased. Today is evidence that the situation is far more serious. At 12 o'clock today all Galicians enter level 2 and part of Galician level 3. And the question we want to put to you today — since you, in the third plenary session of this situation, do not come to this Parliament itself — is: what conditions is public health in order to deal with this situation? Under what conditions is it to meet the usual health needs, the normal pathologies, the derivatives of the covid-19 and the derivatives of the respiratory diseases proper at this time, of the winter season, which occur to a greater or lesser extent each year. What contingency plan has the Galician Union prepared to ensure health care for the population? What we know, Counselor, is that the Greek public health is facing a lot of difficulties today after eleven years of unforgivable cuts by the People's Party. What we know today is that primary care is drowned, that professionals are with a brutal overload, with exhausting schedules, having to attend their own coupons and those of the absent... I can give you a data, just a data: in my health center, where I have reference, that of Cambados, two days ago, on Monday, there were three and a half doctors for a nine-cup. It's a given, but this could be all over the country. Three and a half -- I say "and half" because there was a contract for a few hours -- for a nine-professional coupon. To this you have to add all the overload that they've put upon them and follow up the positive people for cowardice and then remain in their homes. All expert people don't get tired of saying that in the fight against coveting primary care is fundamental, that early detection is fundamental, identifying and isolating patients, and, despite that, you persist in having a drowning primary care, with middle gas health centers, with rows of people glued to the doors, with collapses, with unattended phones, with no presence and with people, the healthcare professionals, overwhelmed with the most powerless. And this staff, Counselor, is unfairly putting up with the complaints of a very disturbing, very frustrated and very concerned population about the difficulties of accessing assistance, when there is only one person, who is at this time as much as you are responsible for the Board, for Sergas, for not equipping them with means and resources. In hospital care, of course, it's no better. I can tell you about Montecelo: saturated emergencies, insufficient beds one day yes and another, 15 or 20 people waiting by bed at the end of each shift... in Chuac: saturated emergencies, patients in the corridors, every day more beds occupied by cowardly pathology... in the rain: saturated emergencies, no income beds, no staff reinforcements. Not CHUS, anyway. Well, we have to add that they didn't normalize normal activity after the escalation, that there are still thousands of people who have been interrupted or who have been cancelled diagnostic tests, consultations, interventions, and who don't know when they're called or know what happens with their health processes. And there are people with serious pathologies, with interventions suspended in February and that today -- practically in November -- still no one has contacted them again and they don't know what's going to happen. Of course, the question is, what is Sergas's planning to avoid the collapses of the service and give this assistance to people who need it? Staff conditions, Mr. Counsellor, of course, are not better. In the middle of the second wave of the pandemic they maintain a precarious recruitment, for days, for hours, for weeks; they continue to offer contracts that at nothing resemble the needs of the current situation; and they have a precarious system, a high temporality. Not even in this health emergency are able to end this policy of indecent recruitment of professionals who have given it all and to those who process after process you do nothing but mistreat. I'd like you to have some answers that I could really transfer to professionals. Almost eight months after the pandemic has begun, the staff continues to report that there are staff hired for sheltered areas that are soon throughout the hospital; one day they may be attending the hospital and the next day they may be attending a woman who has just given birth or recently born. This, normally. Eight months after the onset of the pandemic they have to continue to report deficiencies in the protection they are giving to professionals, Counsellor; deficiencies in the face of possible contaminations and deficiencies and shortages of protective materials. We find it totally unjustifiable that at this point they must be demanding sufficient protective masks in the face of the arrival of patients. There's a community transmission right now, there's a lot of asymptomatics, and it turns out you're telling them they can use surgical masks and they can only use FFP2 in those cases that they think they're suspicious. What are you suspects, Counselor? Why does all Galicia go to stage 2 if the suspects are identified? You know that's not the case, and in spite of that, they have the staff working in conditions of insecurity. And, as a result of that, it dances the circumstances that, for example, at the Vimianzo health center, of 15 professionals, there are 11 infected people, or the case that has just been given at the Montecelo Emergency Service, where they give positives, you don't have to test them, you have to resort to high instances to make them do them, then there are people in direct contact with positives and they're still working, then that's multiple-fold... do you think that at these heights you can keep working on these conditions of uncertainty, of insecurity, with materials that are not the right ones, and that can continue to require them to continue to deliver everything? Of course, at BNG we don't think so. How are the professionals protecting themselves from possible infections, Mr. Comesaña? What protective materials are you making easier for them? How many professionals are you planning to hire Junta to deal with both primary and hospital situations? These questions were written, I suppose you'll come up with the answers to these questions. Of course, I have to tell you that in the BNG we are very concerned because, in the face of this context of primary care to the limit, hospitalization with increasing care pressure that is already pointing out the inability to respond, personal to the limit, the population distressed by the pandemic and the difficulties of access to health care, the level of seizures by copper-19 released, what we see is that the Junta, Sergas and you are not only acting to solve these problems, to respond, but are still putting forth effort in propaganda. And I'm telling you this because, look, the correctness and effectiveness of decisions depends to a large extent on having reliable and rigorous information. You have just answered a question from the People's Party about the effectiveness of certain measures and tracings, and despite the need for strict and reliable information, the German Government is not acting in that direction; quite the contrary, I was rather shocked today by listening to the Director General of Health, in the press round they gave in the morning, saying that they had controlled the outbreaks, which was already known to be the source, when the reports of Charles III, the October 14 report, a few days ago, still say that in Galicia 63.2% of the contagions are not identified. But how dare you say they've already been controlled when reports say that 63.2 percent are unidentified and that Galicia is still with a lot of the community where that situation happens? Well, you'll tell me. Not being identified has much to do with the tracking system. We still don't know what the tracking system is today, Counselor. It's pretty juicy to have to come here one full after another to ask you when you're going to clarify it. And really, after you even had left it up to me that you didn't know very well that it was the tracks, we have to go back to Galician public television a few days ago. I mean, the People's Party dares to put this graph back on Galician public television where it says that in Galicia there are 6,000 trackers. [[Mrs. Prado Colors displays a graph.]] I mean, despite what reality is, you persist in trying to impose a fraudulent story; propaganda against reality. [[Applause]] And a few days ago, on Galician public television, they put this graph back on, where it says that in Galicia there are 6,000 trackers. It still doesn't tell us who they are, how, where they are, what they're called, where they work, but that advertising and the headline don't spoil their reality. Just as they threw the bomb and plate, Mr. Counsellor, a campaign with thousands of rapid tests in Ourense pharmacies because that would be a great attention to citizenship, and instead of strengthening primary care and public health care, they reinforce private establishments...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u239	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u240	...and they also do it to carry out tests exclusively that would expire from there a few days. Look, Counselor... it's embarrassing... it's embarrassing! [[Mr Prado Cores shows some documents.]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u241	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u242	Tests... look, or 23/10 were expiring...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u243	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u244	...or 19/10 expired...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u245	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u246	20/10, I mean, it's embarrassing for a government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u247	You have another shift later...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u248	...if campaigns are being launched saying it's going to be to help the population, when, for the only thing it was, it was to get out of the way...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u249	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u250	...material that would expire in a few days.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u251	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u252	I'd like you to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u253	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. You have another shift after what you can carry on. [[Applause]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The Health Counsellor, Mr. García Comesaña, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u254	Good afternoon again, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Prado, thank you for the question because I consider it appropriate to convey to the population a message of tranquility to the care situation of our health system; a message of tranquility, yes, which must also be accompanied by a call to prudence and to extreme measures to prevent infection. As you well said, last night we had to take an important measure in the field of public health and a measure especially oriented to the prevention of infections, not because we don't know what the outbreaks are or what we know them, we know them one by one, with names and surnames, but because of that feeling we have with the objective data that the number of contagions continues to increase and, as I said in this Parliament, in the environment of confidence. Of course, we know who the parents, mothers and children were affected by family meetings, and that's why we took as we took yesterday. It's in everyone's hands to avoid an expansion of the spread of the virus, but no doubt none is in the hands of the Galician Union and the Galician Health Service has response mechanisms for all these eventualities. You were wondering about the contingency plans -- or that's what I was talking about -- to meet the extraordinary demand for health care derived from increased cases of cowardice and influenza. And I'm going to give you an answer to this question, but allow me to address a previous one. The best contingency plan is prevention, it's to avoid as far as possible these extraordinary increases in cases by these two pathologies. And I can tell you that in both cases Junta has taken steps to increase that prevention -- and I go to parties -- by investing 3.2 million euros for a particularly intense vaccination campaign. Galicia initially bought a total of 617,500 doses, which, together with the 248,330 which in this case provides the Ministry of Health, complete a total of 865,830 doses, 30% more than the previous year. A call will be made by professionals, in this case of nursing and primary care, to the population between 65 and 74 years old, to which massive text messages will also be sent to remember this vaccination. And also for the first time Galicia will use this campaign a high-load tetravalent vaccine for the most vulnerable people, those 65-year-olds or more who enter residences. Therefore, and given that last year, as far as coverage of the target populations of this campaign is concerned, Galicia has placed 6.5 points above the national average, with 60.42% coverage, we hope that the reinforcement of the prevention campaign carried out this year will reduce the incidence of this disease in the health system this winter. With regard to covid-19, we're also taking preventive measures that are able to contain or reduce the infection. I insist again as we took yesterday, last week and practically every week since July. Thanks to these measures that Junta takes in accordance with its clinical committee to contain the grobes, the incidence accumulated in this disease in Galicia is in the middle of the national average; it is, along with two or three communities, the lowest in Spain. I know that for you, Mrs Prado, this is the fruit of chance, you said it in the past, but allow me to defend the work of those people -- of whom you spoke -- in primary care and hospital care that participate in the tracking process -- I want to insist, and I don't want to stop anymore on this subject. There are many workers in the Greek health service who do tracking work, many of them, and they also take measures to contain the germs. I think we have to thank them and not by chance. [[Applause]] In the previous question, I had the opportunity to speak about some of these measures taken in Galicia, pioneers in Spain, which contributed to that: I recall the 1,900 positive cases detected through the passenger register, of which I have just spoken for a moment; I cannot fail to highlight now the specific measures of different professional groups with special risk, such as the health workers themselves - that we are already in the second cry we do with them - the teachers - more than 40,000 -, the rest of the staff working in educational and health centres, the personnel of safety bodies, the emergency personnel or the temporary workers of the farm, and the greater the fifteen-year-old staff we have established among the professionals of older homes, which is allowing, through the pooling technique, to run every two weeks to more than 15,000 workers of these residences, who maintain, as you know, direct contact with the people especially vulnerable to the shelter. The result of these prevention measures - written, tracking, obtaining groos, taking measures for its containment - is also reflected in other data published on the same page of the Ministry that you cited and which offer the following results: Galicia is, by 6.7%, the autonomous community with lower percentage of occupied ICU beds, compared to the national average of 21.5%, and Galicia, also by 4.20%, is the autonomous community, along with Cantabria, which is the lowest percentage of global hospital beds are occupied; the national average is 11%. This is the best contingency plan to avoid collapse, Mrs. Prado: facing the fall starting with the lowest percentage of hospital occupation for the cowardly-19. And it also reflects a success of the health system, which now has around 5,000 active cases -- practically the same number as at the peak of the pandemic in April -- it has 69% less hospitalized patients and 73% less intensive care patients than it had in April. This is a success of prevention systems, early detection and treatment of the Greek health system, or, if you prefer to believe so, a bunch of accidents. In any case, it's an objective fact that allows us to face with better perspectives the increase in cases that might come in the winter, and that's what we're working on, in that possible increase. Having said all this, Sergas cannot afford, however low the hospital incidence of the shed, to act without contingency plans for this stage; contingency plans that not only affect hospitals, but, as you well pointed out, primary care. If the percentage of active hospitalized cases is lower -- which is so -- that means there are more cases in their homes. Even today 94% of the active cases in Galicia are at home, being monitored and monitored precisely by primary care personnel. So I also want to announce that this week Sergas's manager kept in touch with the different family medicine and primary health societies for next week's work, plan with them and move the plans we're working on. In particular, with regard to contingency plans, I can tell you that, although in relation to covid, if they have already been established in the various areas of care, action protocols, such as, for example, emergency rehabilitation, outbreaks, home care, intensive care, etc., it is no less true that in the case of influenza in October, they are used to develop and sign, with especially emergency services but also with internal medicine and primary care services, specific contingency plans. As a result, this year, due to the probable overlap of the epidemic waves of both diseases, the Galego Health Service has decided to develop contingency plans against respiratory paintings for the 2020-2021 season, seeking, in this case, to adopt a joint and cross-sectional plan in which all of this respiratory pathology is addressed and in which operational and resource measures are collected, differentiating circuits in each case at the time necessary or other similar measures. These plans are being developed by each of the health areas in collaboration with their professionals, although incorporating the general measures established by the Directorate-General for Health Care, both for primary care and hospital care. They are, in addition, adaptable plans based on the epidemiological and care needs that are presented at every moment, in order to anticipate an increase in the demand for assistance, plan those possible peaks of demand in different care devices and ensure adequate health care for the population at this seasonal period. There are specific measures within them to avoid lumps within health centres, to minimize the incidence of care for these patients on the rest of the activity of the centres and to define alternative procedures in the event of a need for specific spaces or for the empowerment of reinforcements of material and human resources. It also includes in hospitals the grouping of patients entering pre-covid, covid and other pathologies, or the protocolization of patients' transport through specific circuits for patients with respiratory symptomatology and covid patients. In addition, these contingency plans will allow the health areas to have a control framework with updated information on the epidemiological and care situation of the centres, which will also reflect staff reinforcements, enabled beds or programmed interventions suspended, so that health officials can assess the impact of these respiratory diseases on health care and implement, if necessary, additional measures to those initially established. It should also be recalled that the care situation of the different areas and the different centres is also one of the parameters that the Clinical Committee, which follows weekly on the evolution of the cod, takes into account to take restrictive measures to prevent the spread of the cod in those areas where the assistance capacity can be compromised, and for this reason, as you know, additional measures have been taken in Ourense for weeks ago that are being taken in the rest of the autonomous community. In this extraordinary situation, extraordinary measures are required and so Sergas first prepares these contingency plans tailored to the current situation. This year, like every year, these contingency plans are going on in October, long enough for when the situation is complicated, especially by the flu in December or January, they are perfectly gratified. And I don't want to end without thanking the involvement and dedication of the health services staff, which, although it's not new, remains, as always, extraordinary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u255	Thank you very much, Counselor. On the replica round, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u256	Counsellor, the first thing I want to say is that, really, in an exceptional situation like where we are, that you come here to say that you go to the tran-tran, like every year in October, and you talk about drawing up a contingency plan, when we are faced with an exceptional situation, where you have just decreed that the whole of Galicia passes to level 2 of restriction... and you to the tran-tran; that is, we'll do, we'll already make a contingency plan to see if we trust a little more and with a little luck the flu doesn't have as much impact as other years. Well... lending the lucky factor. Since you've taken away the topic of the vaccination campaign, I'd like to know if you're in a position to make sure that you can vaccinate all those people who are asking for it, because the information that's coming to us is that since health centers they're no longer given doses and they're telling people that they have to wait. I'd like you to take advantage of it and tell us if that campaign that everybody's going to be vaccinated will have the correlation in the doses enough to do it. You used to give a message of tranquility. Of course, I wonder what quiet you can take care of that you can have the Welsh and Welsh people when the time of the flu has not yet arrived, when this second wave is still just starting and they already have rows in front of the health centers because they have no accessibility, when they don't reach their doctor and when they have time to be treated for two, three and four weeks. So you say you have to send him a message of tranquility. How can you be at ease with this situation before all this happens without you at least in your first reply say what resources you will put on the table to bring about that calm? [[Applause]] Because the tranquillity, Counselor, it's not enough for you to have public television throwing tests on the entire population just to get those who are about to expire, nor say they have 6,000 trackers, when we don't know how or how. You with that misinformation aren't giving the Greek people any peace of mind; quite the contrary, they're not believing anything at all because the only thing they've done was deceive them from the beginning to the end. I'm replying what I'm learning is that they have no contingency plan -- they're going to do it -- and they're going from occurrence to occurrence. And what I'm asking you is that you can't go after the virus, Counsellor, you can't continue to make access to health centers difficult, you can't be that in any pathology that isn't covered by the solution is to wait, to keep waiting, because you're here today gave no alternative to what's happening over weeks. The contingency plan in hospitals cannot be based on the fact that as emergency care pressures rise, patients in the corridors are falling in love, as is already happening in hospitals today, or as the care pressure goes up, surgeons are being cancelled, surgeons are being closed and these spaces are being occupied with sheltered patients. That's not a plan of continence, that's to undress a saint to wear another one and that's to have the Galician population unattended, and that can't be, it can't be! [[Applause]] More than ever at this time it is necessary to guarantee public health, to guarantee resources and to guarantee appropriate professionals. In the BNG interrogation there were written questions of how much personal, what conditions and how much budget, and I would like to have been able to answer the question of how much personal they're going to hire and how much budget they're going to devote to all this, because at the moment what we know is that you're using zero costs and continuing with an indecent recruitment policy of precariousness and continuing to contract when services are already exceeded, and that's not planning, that's not anticipating, that's not doing the right thing, Mr. Counsellor. They can't wait for the virus to keep taking the front and the things are out of the way to take action and see what patches are solving the problems. Anticipates; what I ask you today is that you anticipate, that you really plan, that you activate primary care, that you activate it already, that you facilitate access to the population to primary care, with the necessary security measures -- it can't be that soon you're stacked elsewhere and that you can't reach primary care -- that there are clear protocols to which is the attention to be given at all health centres, that you increase the number of professionals, that you end this precarious recruitment policy and that you hire decently. How many professionals are there in call suspension, on Sergas' lists, Counselor? Why do you think professionals are calling for a call suspension in Sergas and they're working in private or going outside? Because they have better contracts. Make decent contracts, Mr. Counsellor, decent contracts!, to have professionals and to attend to the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Applause]] Put in place a credible plan of tracking and really, not to make a pretty or to make quadrants to pull out on Welsh TV, really; that as soon as there's a positive if you do an agile trace and we don't follow the state queue in that lack of knowing where those positives come from. And that the budget increases, that it devotes budget to public health and essentially primary care, because the zero cost cannot be given an answer to this exceptional situation, which requires...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u257	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u258	...an exceptional answer. You are responsible and you have to give that exceptional answer by launching real measures that really solve the problem that we have today, and that is that the Greeks and the Greeks don't have access to public health. That's the reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u259	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the closure of the inquiry, the Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u260	Mrs. Prado, you were asking what were the contingency plans and what were the measures of the Union to avoid the collapses. I think I told her about it, but I'm going to insist. As for the collapses, I first told him about the preventive measures of the Board about the two pathologies by which increased care demand you were asking. I specifically told him about the special situation of the vault-19. As far as contingency plans are concerned, I've explained to you that joint structure that we've decided to have these plans this year, as well as the development phase in which they are, as every year for these dates, with regard to influenza. And he also told her that continence plans for the coward we have -- reported a number of them -- practically in all areas, not now, of October, but practically since April, and most of them active. I can also assure you that plans take the means to respond to the targets that 80% of emergencies or interconsultations with other specialities can be solved in an hour. This document was sent to hospitals; this document was adopted almost a month ago. In particular, in the case of covid, we not only rely on the high diagnostic capacity of PCR tests - more than 6,500 samples a day, not to mention pooling - but also we also acquire rapid evidence of antigen detection, which are presenting a good sensitivity result in studies with symptomatic patients and will therefore help emergency services to discriminate more rapidly the patient's respiratory pathology and avoid the confluence of patients I care about with other pathologies. I can also tell you that these contingency plans will have four levels of overload, following the model that we had earlier years on emergency break, depending on the percentage of global admissions that are waiting for hospitalization, and that these levels will determine the availability of human and material reinforcements or the staffing of surgical activity, as the continence plans of the flu have been operating in recent years, which I believe have worked so well. With regard to primary care, we are perfectly aware from Sergas of the incidence that the epidemiological situation is having in primary care services. He said before 94% of the active positive foster patients are currently at home; therefore, they fall into primary care. As I told you in the previous plenary session, we believe in the advantages of telephone care and a mixed model, but always this mixed model ensures patient health care. We're working with the health centers, visiting the health centers and, of course, Mrs. Prado, in the centers I've visited these last few days, I haven't met those queues you're talking about. We know that there are, of course, some centers and we give instructions so that these queues don't happen. The centers have to be open and the patients have to be able to enter the health center, that's right, with a mask, as we enter all public or private places. Those instructions are given, and tell me about the visits I'm making you're being complied with. In any case, we are also working on organizational changes - as I said the other day - that allow for the redistribution of certain tasks and tasks between health and non-health personnel, freeing medical personnel to focus on the most strictly clinical functions. This can also contribute to other measures that we will discuss in the next interpellation. Also in technological changes that allow them to automate and computerize administrative processes that are now motivating presenceal displacements to the centers after that telephone consultation that they make to doctors, and with good results. And in changes to increase and improve telephone access resources -- which also commented on in the previous intervention -- such as the separation between calls for appointment and calls that require direct contact with the specific health centre. But I'm telling you something else, Mrs. Prado, we have a Greek primary care plan in full implementation. This plan envisages the creation of more than 300 squares in the different categories of primary care, and currently I have experienced an increase of 147 squares. In the past legislation there was a conflict in primary care, when it was evident that a model until then successful was not sufficiently adapted to demographic changes, to chronicity, to pluripathology, etc. And besides, I was suffering from the tensions arising from the absence of health care personnel to cover the substitutions. In the face of this problem, there were two attitudes: the Galician board team, with the German advisor at the front, set up working groups and dialogue with professionals, and formulated a plan with concrete measures. Opposition groups wanted to use this conflict as a partisan weapon without more concrete proposals than a generic appeal of the need for more money and more professional. Mr Prado, I wanted to deliberately review the debate that took place in this Parliament last year, when the Councillor for Germany came to present this plan to you. While he explained the measures and lines of action, you answered the following: "You persist in not listening to the cry there is about the opposition to the people's health policies." Mr. Prado, last July we heard the Greeks, and the cry there was to expand support for a government that offered concrete plans and measures and reduce support for an opposition that offered only slogans of conflict. [[Applause]] I think it is time that we all understand that the popular mandate that puts us here is a mandate to be constructive and offer solutions. The Galician Union and the Galego Health Service, of course, will follow this path. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u261	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Interpellation by D. Julio Torrado Quintela and Da Marina Ortega Otero, G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Government of Greece in relation to the recruitment of health professionals to cope with the curfew-19
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u262	Mr. Torrado has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u263	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor. The truth is, I have to admit that you've changed my foot a little bit. Human resources are a subject on which we have often been involved, but I intended to propose this interpellation to say that perhaps it was possible to change the policies of the Council of recent times and move something forward in human resources, even though you in the closure of the previous interpellation just stick to the policy of the previous council; so I disassembled my intention to see if we could change some of the issues. So, I see you're going to have a walk similar to the one we had with Mr. Almuña, with which we had our differences with respect to human resources. Anyway, it looks like we're going to go that way, but, well, I'm going to keep the fear of believing that we can still convince them a little bit of change. We're going to keep up with this. I am stubborn; you know, Mr. Balsairo, that I am so. Everyone has the flaws they have, and I have them all, so it's not a question either... yes, well, it's all right. [[Murmurs.]] We think there's a human resource problem in Sergas, we've been saying it for some time. There's one problem that has to do with the deficit and another with the working conditions of those who are inside the system. That of the working conditions seems quite obvious to us. Sergas has probably become the worst ETT in Galicia in the last few years. The usual use of resources that should be extraordinary as pooling can be one thing... i.e. taking nurses pooling to do a job for a whole year, hired for days, because it doesn't make much sense. That this happens practically in all categories of work doesn't make much sense either, and besides the casualties that are going to be for "x" time, for six months, you cover with weekly contracts, when you know that you're going to need six months, it leads to absolutely precarious staff conditions, and that can't be. There are judicial problems, Sergas has legal problems, because he has judgments that tell him this is recruitment fraud. "Fraud" puts in some judgements, and you, when you want to encourage some supposed improvement, like the professional career, whatever happens to the complaints, and the judges tell them they weren't right. There's a deficit problem, to review some data. The General Council of Official Medical Colleges says, says and presents the data that we have the third worst ratio of physicians per patient across Spain, of autonomous communities. In addition, we have an average of 5.5 nurses per 1,000 inhabitants, the third worst in all of Spain, when the average of Spain is around 6. Other European countries will benefit us a great deal. We have the worst ratio in any mental health category across Spain, psychologists, psychiatrists and specialist nurses. We've got a math problem. We're on an average below the state average, it doesn't reach 0.7 per 10,000, when the state average is almost at 1. We have today, budget against budget, 140 million euros less in primary care than 11 years ago and 1,100 professionals less than 11 years ago. We have a staff deficit problem. This, what does it end up deriving from? No saturation problem. Today I was aware of the case of a person who is hypertensive, who needs to renew his recipe -- something that's usual -- and it's been a week since he has no ability to ask for a phone call to renew the recipe. And do it over time, but if it's been a week and you don't have a date yet, you'll have a problem getting your medication. This is what happens to the saturation of professionals, to those who, in recent times, have fallen the greatest severity of the situations that many of them have experienced, and therefore saturation is greater. That's right, you hear them for some things, but when the Medical College says what you said about the fast tests you've announced now, we don't know if they actually consulted you with that clinical committee, because you say that in health you make political decisions. Let's see if this quick-test decision didn't take it Health then, because it seems like a political decision. Maybe they don't make political decisions and the trackers work very well. See if you can tell me how many there are, Counselor. In any case, we don't know the origin of two out of three cases, and this is a problem, which he doesn't say here -- that he may not know enough to say, and I tell him I don't know -- but any professional tells him this is a problem: two out of three cases we don't know where they come from. How are we gonna stop this? You're committed to saying they're perfect, but no one will ask you to be perfect, no one can ask this government -- like any other -- to be perfect in dealing with the pandemic, not even the best, the fastest or the smartest. Just like that obsession of always being the most, the most... you pretend to be "the first ones we did, the first ones we left..." and I remind them Ourense. Maybe there wasn't to be so fast and do things better, because sometimes being quick and efficient goes hand in hand, but other times it doesn't happen to go a little bit more drive-by and, instead of pretending to be the first ones, maybe it's better to be the seconds and do it right. I already told the Bible, "the last shall be the first." I'm not a believer, but sometimes the Bible is equally right. Yes, in the matter of human resources responsibilities, this government never has any responsibility. Look, you blamed us on the opposition that we abused the professionals because we talked bad about them, and never that thing if you saw it, but you stand by it, and when we brought here proposals to improve working conditions vote against it, so it wasn't our fault. They also blamed the professionals. I remember Mr. Feijó saying that you can't organize a service when 17 percent of the professionals get down in one day. He said such a thing. It was a health center where there were 6, and it was low 1 because it had a medical problem. He was down 1, but he was talking about 17%. I'm going to do the same as I told you. There's not even 17% of the government here. I mean, sometimes this use of percentages like this to attack professionals didn't look very good on Mr. Feijóo. There was a problem with the MIR. You asked -- for you to acquire the position in the former council -- an extraordinary MIR, which legally invalidated Mr. Aznar at the time. You asked for a major call from MIR, but they lost 150 places of family and community medicine that they didn't ask -- and they had the chance to ask -- over the last ten years. Maybe no one realized we were going to have a problem because the family doctors were retired. They're one year old every year, we knew we were going to have this problem, but we've been in the last ten years that there's 150 MIR squares that we don't have. You came up with the possibility at some point, evidently, of broadening the squares at the Faculty of Medicine, but when we brought this proposal here to ask, they said that this was something a commission had nothing to do with the Government... a commission where most of the members put the Government, but it had nothing to do with it, and the blame was on us and on the university, if at all... You were saying after that the problems were from the state, because it made it easier for them to hire because they didn't eliminate the replenishment rate. That's right, the Congressional Reconstruction Commission has reached an agreement to propose the elimination of the replacement rate and you did not support it in the committee. You asked the State Government to raise funds for them because we couldn't deal with this personnel system without funds to hire staff. And the funds came. What did this council do? He took the funds, hired the staff, and all those who hired extraordinarily with his funds threw us out, and so there were some inconsistencies in hiring staff with the recruitment lists. You usually have problems with ambulance staff, but whose fault is it? From the company, because it's a concession. It must be that it doesn't matter if it's an ambulance system, it's the company's fault. It's always someone else's fault. We here want to insist again on this and through this interpellation and the next motion we want to raise some ideas. First of all, we want to see if we are able to reach an agreement so that we are all committed to supporting those measures that will enable us to implement the agreement to eliminate the replacement rate. You did not support it in Madrid; you ask, but when you proposed to the Commission for Reconstruction, we had to convince you at the last hour, and already in the plenary, after you voted against, because we are the only group in this House that voted for you. But then it's true that you get there and you didn't vote for it. What we say is, it's all right, let's do it. And from this we now put in place all the measures that carry it out. Second measure, when we can eliminate the replenishment rate, we use it, it's not going to be that we eliminate the replacement rate -- which is what we demand -- to hire more staff and then we don't hire it. We have proposed this at this plenary session, and they have voted against it. So what we say is that if we want to eliminate the replacement rate, we delete it and then we contract it. To whom? To all those we don't have today because of the replenishment rate. And you don't have to say in a year, it's impossible, it's not... it's better, in a legislation. We thought that idea. What do we think? You argued that the Government of Spain did not understand this and that it did not make it easier for them to hire staff - the exceptional nature of the covid and to solve problems in primary care - which was in their last year of MIR training. They have the royal decree that already permits it, and they've been there for three weeks. How many have you hired in this way? How many squares have you offered in this way? They said the Ministry didn't understand and they didn't make this solution easy for you, and now that you have it, how many have hired? None. The moment things are solved, they're no longer a problem. They're more concerned about the story than about solving it. We also put things on schedule. We have established that they offer all the MIR squares that they can in terms of pediatrics and community family medicine. They only did it last year -- by the way, when the state government facilitated the greatest MIR in history, which sometimes would be good for them to recognize -- We ask you to consider the university, if you see these committees, the technicians and those who evaluate human resources, expand the squares, give the university the means and resources to do so. We planted this once and voted against it, and we proposed again; and we suggested that they provide multidisciplinary teams with primary care to unburden doctors, because today we have too much "medical center" primary care, and we could unburden more professionals. We also think they're going to make more stable contracts where we're off or vacations when we know we're going to have to replace "x" time. Let's not make split contracts every day that don't allow any professional who's giving up on this system today to make a forecast or two days out of sight, because, then, we have saturation problems, work-burning problems...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u264	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u265	...and enormous labor fatigue that will lead to a problem no longer because we will not incorporate human resources and resources, but because those we have will end up burned down from the system and we won't have anyone to ask for help when we need it. So let's see if from now on we can reach any new agreement in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u266	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u267	President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Torrado, I'm going to focus on responding to your interest in the position of this government in respect of the Royal Decree-Law 29/2020, which was what I had raised in the question. And I'll also try to answer what you said. Well, let's start with the beginning. On September 28, the Ministry of Health convenes a Human Resources Commission of the International Health Council to which Galicia attends me and the Director General of Human Resources. The Ministry explains the general lines in which they are working to facilitate autonomous communities in hiring health professionals, telling us about the approval of foreign specialist titles - which is indeed a demand that Galicia has been making - and also telling us about the recruitment of non-specialist graduates and the possibilities for human resources. From Galicia we expressed at that time that we lacked more structural measures, but we didn't see these lines and measures with bad eyes and we thanked and hoped to contribute. To our surprise, those lines that suggest us appear in the press conference of the Council of Ministers the following day converted into a royal decree that appears the following day in the State Gazette. That is to say, that so-called co-governance system which defends the Government of Spain has given no possibility of claim, participation or proposal by the autonomous communities, that we are ultimately the ones who must manage this legislation. As we saw later, there was no dialogue with health professionals. There is a strike called by a medical union precisely by fines of the measures of that decree. These unions and professionals showed their discomfort through associations of colleges and unions representing them. And there was no dialogue with the opposition groups either. This royal decree was validated last week in the Plenary of Congress and was not supported by any of its most marked partners, such as the Galician Nationalist Block, who did not vote in favour. It was requested to process as a bill so that the different groups could profile these measures, improve them or make proposals, but the votes of the PSOE and of the United Nations We can prevent this dialogue from occurring and monitor this process. And today we are here with the Socialist Party of Galicia pretending in the Galician Parliament of a text that has been processed without dialogue with the autonomous communities and without dialogue with the professionals, which does not count on the support of what Galician is its priority partner and which includes measures that, if approved by a government of the PP, we would have you on the street talking about penalization or violation of labour rights. Therefore, understanding the position of the People's Party in Congress refusing to validate this text in the way it was dealt with, we regret the position of the Socialist Party, which has prevented any possibility of participation by the autonomous communities, professionals and opposition groups. But we are at the moment when we are, in the midst of an immense health crisis, and institutions must be above these supportive positions. Therefore, I can assure you that the Galician Union will not boycott these initiatives, and unfortunately they have been formulated and processed, they can help and provide resources at a time of great need. Therefore, without a doubt, the board will take advantage of the possibilities that this norm opens. That's right, what you're going to do to Junta is what the central government hasn't done: dialogue, talking to professionals, area by area, to facilitate the implementation of these measures and how to do it, in the most peaceful and respectful way with the different professional groups. These are extraordinary measures which exclude general rules on access to health professions and allow arrangements for exceptional services; therefore, we are in favour of using these measures with caution. That's why I still can't deal with many of the questions you ask me about how many and when they're going to start. I cannot anticipate at the moment the number of contracts or areas in which they will be made because we are in each health area — as I said — with dialogue with our staff to study in each case and in every situation the best way to integrate these new contracts. It will be at that time when we initiate the procedure for that offer of squares, which will, of course, be public. I can point out to you that we are willing to do so, but we expect that integration of non-specialized IRMs — medical graduates who have not approved the IRM, in this case — will be given priority in non-strictly healthcare functions in the field of public health. Although the Health Professionals Management Act permits it, we believe it is prudent oriental in this way. We want them to be able to support the work of health care workers in tasks that have increased both in primary and in hospitals for the management of the pandemic. We've done this in March, they've already hired medical graduates who didn't approve the MIR, and they've located precisely in these posts that we're commenting on, mostly non-assisted support. But, therefore, even if we disagree in the way in which they were conceived, the Union will not oppose these measures nor will it give up using them because we consider all the means that can help at this time to be welcome. I wish you had this attitude some mayors of your party, who seem to have an interest in questioning the extraordinary diagnostic media that their population receives! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In fact, Galicia fully understands the need to take extraordinary measures. During the acute phase of the pandemic we were the first autonomous community that decided to hire specialists, the MIRs who completed their residence in May; 158 medical professionals who joined Sergas under these labor conditions, while the Ministry continued to recommend mere extensions of residence contracts. Yes, that we accept and take advantage of the structural measures put in place by the Central Government does not mean at all that we renounce structural measures or that we accept that this government wants to cover with the absences of others. On 24 April 2018, the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System studied the recommendations of the working group on professional deficits which the Government had created, at that time led by Mariano Rajoy, and which had approved the following agreements: prioritising the review of the qualifications requirements of centres and teaching units for specialized health training in specialties that have been declared largely deficient as family medicine, pediatrics and their specific areas; amending Article 26, paragraphs 3 and 4, of Law 44/2003, on the management of health professionals, to establish a more axillary and flexible procedure and to believe teaching centres and units for specialized health training; and introducing a new article — 33 bis — in Law 55/2003, of the Framework Staff Regulations of Health Services Statutory, to encourage the provision of difficult coverage squares in the national health system as a whole. Two months after the adoption of these agreements, the Government of Spain is changing and is beginning to rule over the party that already ruled in most autonomous communities that were in favour of these agreements. Two years later, nothing of the commitment there was made by the central government. Now we have a pandemic, and surely urgent and conjunctural measures are necessary, but two years ago structural measures agreed at national level could have been put in place and not done. The same is true of the removal of the spare rate you were discussing; four years ago Galicia has been requesting this measure. My predecessor requested it by letter to Minister Dolors Montserrat in December 2016 and expressed it in the Human Resources Commission of the International Council of 2017, after this Parliament had unanimously adopted an agreement in that direction proposed by its group precisely, which argued that there was no need for political will to take that action. A year later his party acceded to the Government of Spain and that measure had not yet been taken, we don't know if it was because there was no political will or because it was false that political will was not all necessary. That's why we had to keep insisting, and Galicia once again calls for this measure before Minister Montón, before Minister Carcedo and Minister Illa, until today no result. And that's why there's a figure that if I can put it into practice and that has to do with structural measures: before the end of this year, Junta will publish a public job offer decree that will cover a total of 973 places. Unfortunately, it could not be the 3,500, which were the ones we could have completed, if, as President Feijóo said, the Central Government had lifted that limitation on the replacement rate for which it only lacked political will to do so. A few weeks ago I transferred to Minister Illa the unanimous agreement of this Parliament on 22 September to ask the Government of Spain for the abolition of the limitation of the replacement rate. I would like to say how important it is that this Parliament, which represents the very recent popular mandate, has unanimously applied for this request. I must tell you that the Minister's answer was in a very cordial tone, that is, as it is usually customary in him, understanding the reasons for this Parliament and understanding the necessity of the measure, but at the same time expressing that the decision depends not solely on the one but on other ministries. Mr. Torrado, in the past you asked me if the Government of which I am part would allow me to take the necessary measures. In the light of the Minister of Health's response to this Parliament's mandate, it seems more appropriate to ask whether Mr Illa — the Government you support — will allow him to take the necessary structural measures. [[Applause]] In the meantime, we are going to collaborate in the implementation of the conjunctural measures that if we are being allowed to take, as much as we can disagree in the way in which they were implemented — as it is said — but I must tell you that this royal decree was published less than a month ago, as I told you, only two days after general ideas about its content were advanced in the communities, and only a week ago that is convalidated in the Congress of Deputies. So the Union is not going to settle in conformity and it's going to be an administration that makes every effort to fight the pandemic. We will contribute to the implementation of these measures, but allow us to have the time to implement them with the dialogue that the Ministry has not been able to carry out. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u268	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the reply, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u269	Thank you, President. Counselor, you don't want to answer many questions that we raised here because it wasn't the place of the question, but you answered some we didn't ask. Those we don't ask but he wants to answer you, those, yes; those we pose, no. Why? Why, let's... Why answer an opposition group? And do you complain that you've been consulted two days earlier? Oh, if you had opposed this government... Oh, oh, great! This is a bit like the story of the naked king, who goes down the naked street and believes that nobody tells him anything because it's very good, but it's naked and people know it. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela laughs.]] And even though I was in my pants... I mean, there's no way to get things out of him. No, you don't, and you don't... [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] But, well, beyond the joke, you mention that it's okay, that they're going to do an OPE and they don't allow it... that it's okay, because it incorporated a new culprit, Salvador Illa; before it focused more on Pedro Sánchez, now it's Salvador Illa too. And all right, I recognize that ability to always find a culprit. The day they realize that they have the skills to manage health is going to be tremendous. Great! because if it turns out that the fault of everything is always out and yet you assume it's so good, the day they realize that you manage it will be a marvel. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] That's right, he did make a report here about the replenishment rate; he devoted much more time to him than you wanted to focus on and that we asked not to talk about the last one that happened at the replenishment rate. Because this is important, the Committee on the Reconstruction of the Congress of Deputies reached an agreement on the basis of an amendment by the BNG, which they did not support afterwards, to suggest that the replacement rate had been eliminated. What did your party do in the Reconstruction Commission? Voting in favor? No, no. Are you going to contribute to that move? Because it's going to be very hard for you to argue that you want to eliminate the replacement rate and systematically vote against it. That leads me to this royal decree: it seems to you well, it was a measure they had already planned, but now it turns out that they have to do a study to see if it can be applied. Man, if you were to defend that it was a necessary measure and that it had to be planned, something would have been evaluated, I say! Or were they making a proposal to look for and blame someone and they hadn't evaluated anything? We assume they had evaluated that, if allowed, they could take that action at the same time. Now it seems no, they can take it now, but they don't want it. On the vote, you must say that you agreed. They will come to say — I tell you, I don't know if you or any other member — that if you take that action because Mr Feijóo proposed — I tell you, I will tell you — that is yes, they will vote against, because they voted against. And by his vote he was approved directly, there was no need to process it any other way. That is, you say: this measure is necessary, you have to propose this measure, but when this measure is proposed, you go, you vote against it and even when it's going to be processed then you say: "buff!" now we have to study it. You don't care about any of this from the human resources of the system. You build stories well, you build accounts very well, but you build accounts. They say they try to find a way to tell that the guilt of evil is another and that good things are the merit of the Government, which politically makes a lot of sense to do so. But besides that, which is important politically, there are some things we need to do because, at the end of this, what do we get out? That to all those measures that you thought were good at voting against and not applying them, and when there's a compromise or a proposal like which we brought here to this Parliament a few weeks ago, that in the elimination of the replacement rate, you are committed to hiring all those people who because of the replacement rate are out of the system, you vote against. So, what do you want to do if you're upset about the replacement rate is to get rid of it? It bothers you to get rid of them because they'll have something less to blame. They will be hypercapable — I have no doubt — to find another element of discussion. Sure, huh! I think I might overestimate the abilities of this government for that, but I never get short. When the replacement rate is eliminated, you'll get upset because you can't blame it anymore. Now, apply that and then hire according to that? No, why? If you're not what you want, that's why they vote against it and that's why they vote against this royal decree. And that's why we bring this question, to tell this government what we want to say: that you just build an account because, when you had before measures that you said you wanted and put them in front of them, they voted against them. And that's true -- it's not your fault, it's not the transfer, but if I tell this government -- in politics, when you have a serious human resources problem and you have a measure ahead of you and you vote against it just to be able to vote against, it's disloyal. That's the problem, that you'd rather be disloyal than resolute because you're able to build a political account from disloyalty, and that's good for the election, but it doesn't solve the problem because you're still having the third worst ratio of doctors per inhabitant, the third worst ratio of nurses per inhabitant, one of the worst ratios of matrons per inhabitant, the worst ratios of mental health professionals per inhabitant and we're still having a saturated system...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u270	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u271	...in the professionals. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u272	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the closure of the inquiry, the Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u273	Mr. Torrado, Galicia has taken structural measures on staff in recent years. The most structural measure that a health service can take in the eido of its staff is to be constant in its public job offers. And few autonomous communities can say that they have called public job offers in health during the worst years of the economic crisis. Galicia never ceased to do so, always exhausting, besides, the famous rate of rest which was allowed at every moment. Thanks to its increased budgetary solvency and met the targets of deficit and financial stability, Galicia has been able to overcome that 100% replenishment rate in recent years and reach up to 108%. Thanks to the priority this government has always given in health care, we could count on squares that in other countries such as general public service or education have given up for the OPE health care. Last week the term of possession of 1,429 professionals who joined a fixed square in Sergas after surpassing the 2018 OPE. In fact, we have launched the 2019 OP and we are working -- I just announced -- in the 2020 OP -- I repeat, there is OP every year --. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] We hope that in the first quarter of next year we will take possession of another 1,492 professionals whose phase of competition has been affected by the pandemic. As far as precariousness is concerned, this government has launched the Sergas Staff Statutory Staff Stability Plan, agreed with the union centres and aimed at placing the temporality rate of our health service at 5%. In addition, we have created the continuity contract between 1 and 3 years, with a minimum wage of EUR 61,500, which you have criticised a lot but which has already been incorporated into 117 professionals of primary care in Greece. We also have continuity contracts in the field of nursing, to those who too little by little — that is true — are being incorporated, because they are contracts between 1 and 3 years. You were talking about vacation contracts, which six months are scheduled to take place from week to week. I think it's anecdotal, Mr. Torrado. Most of the workers who have a vacation replacement contract or a discount are usually long. I'm not saying there are no punctual situations -- that there were -- but most contracts have that length. And besides, as I said, we have the nursing continuity contracts, so that nurses and nurses have that 1 year contract up to 3. And they're using it, Mr. Torrado. With regard to what we were talking about the demands of the Galego Health Service on the approval of titles and the recruitment of the MIRs, doctors without a specialty, I have to say that it is true that at the previous stage of the pandemic this model of non-specialized graduate optional contract, as I said, we used it, but it was very sharp, because, as I said before, it is not easy to search for the location, the specific task where these professionals can develop their activity normally and without causing any kind of problem or scrapping with the rest of specialists. As I said, that requires a dialogue; a dialogue that we did not have with the Ministry on this subject, but that we will undoubtedly address, and we will look for a solution - as we said - as we did in March, to incorporate these professionals and that they can make the best of themselves in this case in aspects associated with the pandemic. We were also talking about approvals. We transferred to the Ministry, at that pre-Decree meeting, our interest in these approvals in an orderly way, working with them. The Ministry just sent us the list of those people who had the title requested to approve, who lived in Galicia, or who showed their ability to work in Galicia. That list came last week and we're working on it to see exactly what specialists can accommodate that. With this, I urge you, on your question of what we are asking in the use of these possibilities, because, in short, in doctors without expertise, we seek oriental to this issue of essentially non-healthy functions to support the work associated with the pandemic; and, in the case of un homologated titles, we are working on the lists that have just been sent to us. So we're taking advantage of that opportunity. With this we do not cease to aspire to that replenishment rate, which we do aspire to. And I wanted to make a little tone on the vote, Mr. Torrado. You say the PP voted against the replenishment rate. No, he did not vote in favour of a package of measures which, in addition to the replenishment rate, included other things. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] This is a little trick, isn't it? But it's okay, it's okay. [[Murmurs.]] The case is that I believe it has been shown in the previous plenary session, when the fee was voted, and in the letter - that I can transfer to you and that I have referred to the Ministry of Health - that we insist, please, on that replenishment rate. I give it to her whenever you want. [[Applause]] I therefore believe that the willingness of this government to implement these measures — I repeat — is clear, despite the way in which they took place, and I am delighted that the Socialist Party is also involved in that work. I'm sure we can come up with some kind of proposal and deal to get, after all, more professional, and our patients are better careful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-21-DSPG010.u274	Thank you, Counselor. There's no more business. It ends, therefore, here the full. Good afternoon.
