ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u1	Good morning. We resume the session with the seventh item on the agenda, questions for oral answer by the president of the board. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Gonzalo Caballero Miguez, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the assessment made by the government of the municipal crisis in the Council of Ourense
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u2	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday in Galicia he announced the closure of Ourense; decisions and restrictions of level 3 that limit mobility, right of assembly and activity. May it go before any other reflection of our solidarity, our support and, of course, the commitment of all to fight with caution against this virus also in the city of Ourense and throughout the province, where there are obvious risks, and in a city where the number of 500 seizures have been overcome in the last few days. On 12 September, Mr. Feijóo, you sent a letter to the president of Fegamp and a letter to each of the seven mayors or mayors of the great cities of Greece; a letter in which you offered collaboration and in which you indicated that the joint work of all administrations was necessary in order to deal with the virus. But you really haven't sent those seven letters, you've sent six. He sent those six letters because he didn't send the letter to the mayor of Ourense; that mayor of Ourense of what you said was lethal to the city; that one you put in front of Galicia's third largest city; that one who for a year of government showed how to take the spook into politics, ineffectiveness and inability to manage; that Mr. Feijóo, about which the People's Party said they made a temporary suspension of a pact after placing him in the mayor's office. You said, Mr. Feijóo, that in Ourense there is mayor but there is no government. And it has to be said that 24 of the 27 concelers have asked for the resignation of the mayor and that the city's governing board is set up by only 3 concelers. You, Mr. Feijóo, chose to play with Baltar's PP to maintain Baltarism in the House of Ourense, putting in front of the city the one you considered lethal to her. You put the mayor and you are responsible for the municipal crisis in Ourense city, at a time when all administrations have to be in good operation and able to deal with the risks facing this pandemic. That's why you also have to explain what you want to do with the municipal crisis in Ourense. There are 150,000 orensansans and orensas who are awaiting you, concerned about your decisions. And you have to ask him, Mr. Feijóo, if you recognize the mistakes of putting Jacome in front of the city; if you, Mr. Feijóo, take seriously the situation of ingovernance that exists in the third largest city of the autonomous community that you govern; if you are aware that Ourense needs a capable government, especially in times of the harbor, and, above all, what you will do to fix what you have in Ourense. Will it be part of the solution or will it leave the city's situation in the hands and in the municipal chaos in which the People's Party put it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u3	Thank you, Mr. Knight. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, regarding the situation in Ourense, what concerns the Council of Galicia most, and what enters within its competences, no doubt, is the epidemiological situation of the city and the metropolitan area of Ourense. Yesterday, we made the decision, after the corresponding study and previous measures activated in the last few days and in the last weeks, to request an exclusive confinement of mobility within the municipal terms of the city of Ourense and the municipality of Barbadás. The reasons that point to this decision are undoubtedly reasons for assistance. Three of them are: the incidence rate accumulated in the last 14 days. Galicia is one of the autonomous communities with a lower accumulated rate of 107 per 100,000 inhabitants and, however, Ourense has an accumulated rate of 417 per 100,000 inhabitants. The second reason was the positivity rate of PCRs. The average of Galicia is 4.3 positives per PCR number and in Ourense is 18%. That evolution is, without a doubt, very worrisome. And in fact, the number of people affected by the virus has doubled in the last week. If I want to believe that the public health care capacity in Ourense is guaranteed. There are 10 people in the ICU and 50 people in hospital. We therefore continue to take measures, which correspond to the autonomous community within the third city of Galicia. And I have to say that the consultation with the Council of Ourense and the Council of Barbados is only a correct interlocution. There are also other level 2 restriction measures in other areas of Ourense province. Just as in the Navy we took decisions to limit internal mobility in the municipalities that formed the Navy, we take them now, first in the electoral period, and now after the elections. You're talking to me about the political problem of the city of Ourense. For me the fundamental problem of the city of Ourense right now is the health problem, which is what affects the Union of Galicia. With regard to the political problem of the city of Ourense, you know very well, very well, that during the time it took to form governments in Galicia, you proposed as president of the party to rule the most voted list. I proposed it in the deputies, I proposed it in the councils, I proposed it in the cities, and I proposed it throughout Galicia, but not in the last few weeks before I formed the municipal governments, I proposed it since I was president of the People's Party of Galicia; not even since I was president of the People's Party of Galicia, I proposed it since I began my political activity. You know very well, Mr. Knight, that you didn't want me to rule the most voted list. You just understood that I didn't rule the PP anywhere, even if I won the election, even if he was missing a concierge in Ferrol or even if he was missing a provincial deputy in the Deputy of Lugo. It's his systematic, preventing the People's Party, still winning, from ruling. That's why I think, Mr. Caballero, that we should stop the demagogic and cynical approaches because hemerotheques do not resist their will to clarify the municipal map in Ourense, the municipal map or the provincial map. That's why we, in the face of a suspicion of irregular conduct by the party president leading the mayor of Ourense, immediately suspend the pact. You never do, you go on with the pacts, no matter what...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u5	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u6	...with the partners of the pacts. And that's why, Your Honor, I have no more interest than the Ourense People's Party in meeting the designations that correspond in the near future. What concerns me is the governance of Ourense, not whether the mayor is a party or another party. But I would like to ask you again, Mr. Caballero: do you agree, in the cities, in the deputies and in the municipalities, with which to rule the most voted list, yes or no? Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u7	Thank you, President. Replica, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u8	Mr. Feijóo, we agree that the health situation in Ourense and throughout Galicia, in every place in the country, is the most worrying, but that does not object to its political responsibilities for what is happening in this city, where the health risk is mixed with municipal chaos, with the municipal crisis. If you want to help fight effectively in public administrations in the face of health risk, you have to allow there to be a solution to municipal chaos; a solution to a municipal chaos that you recognize when you say there is no government in Ourense and when you say it is in front of the city that is lethal to the city. The curiosity, Mr. Feijóo, is that it was you, the members of the People's Party, who put in front of the mayor who is now mayor and who also provoked the municipal crisis that lives in Galicia's third largest city. There are 105,000 oransians who are awaiting the Council's solution, because social policies are being managed there, because housing and urbanism policies are being managed, and because there are many issues in education that are being helped; therefore, resolving the issue of government is also their responsibility. Mr Feijóo, the cynicism of the People's Party with the parliamentary system and the most voted list has no limits. Do you not rule in the Madrid Community by committing to the ultra-right in front of a Socialist Party which is the first political force? Does any of you have to deal with the ultra right without winning? [[Applause]] They don't rule? The parliamentary system, Mr Feijóo, sets out the possibility that there will be alliances and coalitions of government to put up against whoever it is, the choice that can have the support of these majority. The problem is that you have opted for a pact against nature, failing to fulfil your commitments in Ourense; the problem is not that you have set up a majority of government in Ourense, is that you have set up a majority against what they said in the elections, against what Jacome said in the elections, and they have put in front of a majority that has been a narrow failure. Jacome is your mayor, the only mayor you put in one of the seven major cities of Galicia, and it represents that municipal chaos. Leave the demagogy and be part of the solution. Look for a way out of the collapse of the city of Ourense, to put a government capable and to build a new stage, leaving the escapism of the most voted list, which you use as a smoke curtain, not to have to talk about the problem you've generated, not because it's not the most voted list, but because you put in front of the city a project and a government program with which you have complicated your life to the People's Party in Ourense to save baltarism, caciquism in the deputation and to try to maintain a form of politics that is wrong for the province of Ourense and for the city of Ourense. And the citizens of the city of Ourense ask you, Mr. Feijóo, to solve the problem you have created in Galicia's third largest city.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u9	Thank you, Mr. Knight. For the closing of this question, the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You tell me about the Community of Madrid. This is the Galician Parliament, Mr. Caballero. I say this because speaking of the Socialist Party of the Community of Madrid in the Galician Parliament is interesting to believe and above all to hide that you rule by losing elections in most municipalities, for example, in 21 municipalities. [[Murmurs.]] Being the most voted force of the People's Party, you prevent him from ruling. In Coruña, in Lugo and Ferrol we win the elections cleanly, we can't rule. We have won the election in the Crown and the Lugo Parliament, and we cannot rule, and you come here to speak of principles, Mr. Knight. I myself, before forming a government in the House of Ourense, in the Council of Ourense, asked for a pact, and accepted that you had breached the pact in the rest of the provinces. He broke the covenant in Coruña, in Lugo, in the Town Councils... I asked him for a pact, given the situation of Ourense, which is the most voted list in the Parliament and the Town Hall. Answer: no. But if I have all the press abstracts here, Mr. Knight! [[Murmurs.]] Now you say that my statements are not true! I repeat it again, Mr. Knight, look, we won in three deputies and their goal was that we would not rule at all. They won't let us rule in Lugo, they won't let us rule in Coruña and they wouldn't let us rule in Ourense at a seat of the absolute majority. And your proposal was to offer Mr Jacome various options in the Town Hall and in the Deputy. Don't be cynical, Mr. Knight, you know all Ourense; you know all Ourense that is your proposal. But look, the Ourense People's Party has the freedom to find the best way out in this situation. The question is: Does the Socialist Party in Ourense have the freedom to find the best way out? There were leaders of the Socialist Party in Ourense who proposed a government with the People's Party and immediately you disallowed it. Really, the Socialist Party's goal in Ourense is to exercise its freedom to give a stable government to the city or the only thing it wants is to follow its instructions so that its only goal is to conquer the mayor of Ourense? [[Murmurs.]] If the PSOE thinks of Ourense, we can come to an agreement; if the PSOE only thinks of the PSOE, it will be very difficult, Your Honor. I don't think the best way to get to accords is to demonize the party that most MPs have but one seat, and you tried continuously and consistently that you couldn't rule. That's the opposite, Your Honor. I repeat again: the Ourense People's Party has the freedom to seek the best way out of this situation. The Socialist Party in Ourense has that freedom, too? Look, first of all, it would be good if they agreed within the Socialist Party in Ourense... yes. [[Murmurs.]] On August 28 her spokesperson called for a pact with the PP, and immediately a part of the Socialist Party in Ourense said that they would never compromise with the PP for the government of Ourense. Look, Your Honor, as president of the party, not as president of the board, which I have no competence, the will of the pact is there, in Ourense and throughout Galicia, no doubt. Ourense's people have only one priority: to seek a stable government in the city, fruit of dialogue and the pact. They have the freedom to make a pact. I hope you also leave them the freedom to compromise...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u11	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u12	I hope, Your Honor, that the Socialist Party's proposal is not the one that was before it constituted the City of Ourense and the Deputy of Ourense: we will agree with everyone so that the People's Party will not rule in any institution. That's your instruction to all of your colleagues in all municipalities and all of your deputies. You will understand, Your Honor, that having honest and honest proposals for governance of the Socialist Party of Galicia, with all due respect, Mr. Knight, is very difficult for you. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Pontón Mondelo, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the actions planned by the Government of Greece to alleviate the industrial crisis in Galicia, particularly in the face of the serious situation of Alcoa
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u14	You have the floor to Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u15	Good morning. I want my first words to be of support, solidarity and admiration for the workers and workers of Alcoa and the assistants and for the entire region of the Navy, because they are giving us an example of unity, commitment and dignity, making it clear that they will not allow a multinational to bury their future and the future of their children. [[Applause]] Mr. Feijóo, the workers and the workers were up to it, the Navy district was up to it, and now it's time for the Union and the Central Government to cut it because we're on short notice and it's not worth the declarations of intentions. Alcoa has a roadmap that is perfectly clear. They want to close the primary aluminium factory because they don't want competition. It's obvious that during this time the multinational acted in bad faith, it's more so, I'd say that it acted prepotently, with jeering, and that it even wanted to make it very clear that it's above the Government of the State and the Union. The answer to this disembarkation must be clear and powerful, because, look, at this point, there is nothing worth concluding meetings, nothing worth press notes. The Government is required to act. And of course they have to act now and the only measure that can save jobs and industry in this country is that there is a public intervention. Because, look, if you close Alcoa, they're not just going to the street 1,000 workers, they're signing the Marine Death Act, and we can't afford it, because a country without industry is a country without a future. Every minute they don't put on the table the firm proposal for public intervention is a minute that earns Alcoa to close basins and fire workers and workers from both the factory and the auxiliaries. Therefore, Mr Feijóo, as President of the Council, should tell us in this Parliament whether or not they are already working on public intervention. Because what can't be is that we're at the heart of what's going to decide Alcoa in the future. Governments must act decisively. And, look, that public intervention is viable, it's legal and it's possible. All that is needed is political will, the same political will that he had, for example, the Italian Government to save a similar factory in Sardinia or the same political will that Angela Merkel has just had in Germany nationalizing Lufthansa. Why can there be public interventions in Germany and can't they speak in Galicia? Why can the State rescue the Bank with 90 billion euros — by the way, they owe us an explanation about what happened to the boxes? Why can the State rescue Madrid's radials and why can't they rescue the workers and Alcoa's workers and the industrial future of this country when we're playing a lot in the midst of a crisis? I ask you, Mr Feijóo, for once you don't break the bulk and tell us in this House: are you already working on that public intervention, yes or no?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The situation of the workers of Alcoa, of the entire Navy, is reflected and, consequently, of Galicia is an absolutely compromised situation. You should know -- because here we speak many times about Alcoa -- what is the position of the Government of Galician Union. Allow me three dates. One year ago, in October 2019, this was my intervention -- this is in the Parliamentary Journal of Sessions in Galicia -- "Every minute the Ministry of Industry and Ecological Transition doesn't teach the draft of the Intensive Industry is a minute closer to the closure of Alcohol." In November of the year 2019: "Alcoa is lost in 2018 and lost in 2019. The multinational has instructed all the factories in the world that those that are not profitable will close. So "we are in a situation where the problem cannot be resolved". Those are our interventions in a continuous and constant way. It came in January 2020 and the BNG agreed on an investment agreement, on legislation, with Pedro Sánchez, and then you said that the theme of Alcoa was in that agreement and would therefore be shielded. In February, they presented the draft of the Statute for Electrointensives. My proposal and my assessment of this draft is, "If the statute of electrointensives is approved as it is, Alcoa San Cibrao will close." And the month of May came and Alcoa announced the closure. This is chronic, Mrs. Pontón. So, of course we've been up to it, and we'll continue to be. The question you should ask yourself is whether the BNG has been up to it. He was at the top, first of all, deceiving the Greeks, saying that he had an investment pact with Mr. Sánchez, among other things, to save Alcoa - false -. And besides, on 12 February, you meet in Madrid - your deputy and the Government - to evaluate the electrointensive Statute, which the Government of Galicia, the Government of Asturias and the Government of Cantabria considered absolutely insufficient, and you said the meeting was satisfactory. No, Your Honor. The position of the BNG is absolutely unsatisfactory, and the position of the Galician Council of Workers is a coherent position in time, consistent in content and consistent in attitudes. Seventeen times I went to the President of the Government of Spain, and I have to admit that after the July autonomous elections everything changed, and now it turns out that the Government of Spain, the Galician Union and the workers are aligned in the same objective: that Alcoa sells Liberty -- that company that does not want to operate -- absolutely reasonable that sale, and that, in addition, we tell Alcoa very clearly one thing: the future of aluminium in Spain cannot depend on a multinational that does not want to operate, the only primary aluminium factory in Spain. And that's why, Your Honor, we're not discarding anything, but we have coherence, we have hemerothecs and we have actions, reflections and proposals. So, Your Honor, don't come here to teach us how to defend Alcoa. Alcohol defends itself every day, and since I've been president I've been defending Alcoa every day of my term. Your Honor, everyone, absolutely all. [[Applause]] All the workers of that multinational know perfectly what the position of the Galician Union is, and the position of the Galician Union is very reasonable. First of all, that sale has to happen either directly or directly to Liberty. Second option, if that sale does not want to happen directly to Liberty, which occurs directly to SEPI and which SEPI transfers it to Liberty. And third option, in case Alcoa is continuous and constant and continues in a proposal of bad faith, intervention is a solution.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u18	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u19	Your Honor, those are our proposals, but not because now comes a parliamentary question, no, Your Honor, that is the fruit proposition of work, determination and commitment to the Navy are shining and to the workers of Alcoa. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u20	Thank you, President. For the reply, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u21	Mr. Feijóo, you must have the face of reinforced cement to come here to say that the BNG wasn't up to the level defending the workers and workers of Alcoa, the face of reinforced cement! Yes, yes, and much more coming from a representative of the People's Party and from a president of the board who shut up when his party put in motion an energy frame that carried our electrointensive industries against the ropes. [[Applause]] That's the responsibility of the PP. [[Applause]] And how can you come here to say you knew that you were going to close Alcoa when your big energy proposal was systematically vetoing that we have a lower rate in our country? That's your contribution, Mr Feijóo, to which we have an industrial future in this country. Look, you're obsessed with the agreement we signed with Pedro Sánchez for the investment. And of course, I understand it, because you have a bad conscience, because if the BNG, when it was decisive, told Pedro Sánchez that he had to deal with the intensive industry, but do you know what the ten deputies did? Do you know why you're so obsessed? [[Murmurs.]] Because you cannot sign or teach any agreement in favour of Galicia because you have ten Members kidnapped in the marriage strategy. That's the problem you have, Mr. Feijóo. Ten years of submission to Madrid and of inability to defend the interests of this country. [[Applause]] But look, I find it regrettable that in an economic crisis and with more than 1,000 workers against the ropes the president of the Union comes here to oppose the opposition and criticize the BNG. What workers want is that there are solutions. Look, the sale isn't possible because he's telling Alcoa, and he's made it absolutely clear. And we're in the discount time because there's too few days left to know what Alcoa's business decision will be. What we say to you, Mr President, is that you have to say whether you are already working on that intervention yes or no and whether the Board is going to participate in it, because the rest is gossip, useless confrontation and, in any case, want to cover up the disgraces of a People's Party that, frankly, in energy matters, was much better than I was quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. For the closing of the question, the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u23	I understand, Mrs. Pontón, that you would rather the People's Party of Galicia be quiet. But no, no, Your Honor. Look, I've been president of the autonomous community for twelve years, and the People's Party has ruled in Spain, in the Central Government for seven years, and there's always been a solution for Alcoa. Now it's changed, now there are other parties you're dealing with. Now there's no competitive electric tariff. The price of electricity in Spain in September was 48 euros the megavatio, in Germany, 20 euros the megavatio and in France, 35 euros the megavatio. With 48 euros, the megawatt cannot be operated on aluminium. We've been saying this for two years here, and you, quiet. You were just going to make agreements for the benefit of Galicia, which is the investment agreement with Mr. Sánchez. You're still defending that agreement, Mrs. Pontón. You're still proud that only the BNG defends Galicia. But is there really something BNG had defended Galicia in the agreement of Pedro Sánchez? If you don't mind, Mrs. Pontón! If they don't even consider it: neither the transfer of the Atlantic highway, nor the downside of the Atlantic highway, nor an electro-intensive status for electro-intensive companies... but if they're all the same! All, Alu Iberian, Celsa, Xeal... all, in the same situation, in an electro-intensive status, firstly, that does not exist; and, secondly, the draft project that had been the definitive closure of the electro-intensive industry and, of course, the inability of the hyper-electrointensive industry, which is the case of Alcoa. But look, Mrs. Pontón, any decision you can make on the table must be put quietly, and the central government has been working since July to find a solution and not to close the only primary aluminium factory that exists in Spain. They don't hurt my clothes to recognize him. Just as we were only demanding from the Government of Spain that it had taken the hyper-electrointensive industry seriously and the way the Government of Spain came here, in the myths of general election campaigns, saying that the statute was approved immediately -- I even accompanied a Spanish government minister, who had a meeting with the Alcoa business committee and lied to people in a blatant way, since he told him that he had a solution -- it has to be said that this solution is not yet approved. And you, shut up, and the BNG, shut up. Yes, Your Honor, you shut up. [[Murmurs.]] Simply by not supporting the Government of the People's Party of Galicia, silenced. Your Honor, shut up, in Madrid and here. [[Applause]] But look, Your Honor, I say you mustn't discard anything, just as I say we're in a state of law. I know that for you, the rule of law is just a song. No, Your Honor, you can't intervene a company while it's not clearly believed that all proceedings were made, all cautions, before you interview it. [[Murmurs.]] So, Mrs. Pontón, don't fool anyone. We didn't banish the company's intervention, we've been saying it for a long time. Now, there's a procedure. The Lawyer of the State, the Employment Council, the Labour Authority and the Economics Council are working continuously and steadily, and that's why there is no need to rule out any solution to save primary aluminium production in the Navy. Do you now ask for a great deal of country agreement to save Alcoa? I suppose it will be because the agreement of the BNG with the Government of Spain was not worth anything.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u24	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u25	If you had already solved it! And now it turns out, Your Honor, that if you ask us for an agreement, there's no problem. You know why? Because we, when we give a word, we keep it. We do not deceive anyone, we do not deceive the workers; we do not deceive anyone, Mrs. Pontón. [[Laughter]] You tricked the Alcoa workers by saying they had a solution for them when they signed the investment agreement in February, and we said there was no solution in February or now, and now we're facing a closure. I reiterate, if you were wrong about allies when you supported Mr. Sánchez in return for nothing, that's your responsibility. We support the Government working with us to save the Alcoa, and if not, we will denounce the Government, but we are now working together, and I have no more interest than the Government of Spain and the Council of Galicia continue to work together. It will have my backing for the Government of Spain to follow this line, and in the event that Alcoa's bad faith is believed - which is still in time to rectify - to close a factory to eliminate a competitor, then the Government of Spain will have a formal request from the Council of Galicia to intervene. I hope and wish, Mrs. Pontón, that you take Alcoa's problems seriously. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u26	Thank you, President. We continue with the agenda, with non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in order to recover for the public heritage the sculptures of Maestro Mateo, in the possession of the Franco family, belonging to the Town Hall of Santiago de Compostela
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u27	Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and the People's Parliamentary Group have tabled amendments to this non-legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u28	To formulate the non-law proposition Mr. Bará has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. [[Some Members and Members leave the sitting room.]] We're going to let the usual exodus of the popular ranks happen, and some more. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Good morning. I'd like to begin this speech by asking you a few questions. The first question is: why are we talking at the gallery of this Parliament about this theft situation that has been completed for 60, 70 or 80 years of public goods by the Franco family? Why are we discovering now, forty-five years after the dictatorship's theoretical end, this theft and this macro-police? And why are we at this heights of the 21st century claiming truth, justice and reparation? This question is asked because the answer is fundamental to understanding what has happened in this state over the last decades. These questions are an indictment against the dictatorship, because it has perpetrated all these thefts, but they are, above all, an indictment against the regime that came after, which perpetuated impunity. It's also proof that the Dictator's chronological end was not the end of franchise, and there's the hemerotheque, which is a heavy backpack for some. The fact that we are here today talking about the repair of goods of great symbolism stolen by the Franco family, such as the palace of Meirás - which has already been discussed on repeated occasions and what we will also talk about in a next initiative at this plenary session - that we are talking about the recovery of Cornide's house, of the statues of Master Mateo, of Moraime's baptismal lands, is a serious democratic anomaly and highlights all the complicities and convivies with Franco and with frankism for forty-five years. It also highlights - and we will explain it to you in this debate - the rotational doors of the Transition and the responsibilities of all governments of the State, of all and each of the governments of the State since 1975, beginning with the monarchy itself, which, as we know, is heir to frankism, which has been and continues to be a protector of the interests of the Franco family and which took little time - only 5 days after the death of the dictator - in granting those ignominious titles of the Signorio de Meirás and the Duchy of Franco, who remain vigilant. [[Applause]] This is a real indecency and a democratic shame. There is no right for the Franco family to continue to enjoy the category of the title of Grandeza de España. This is not Spain's greatness, this is Spain's misery. [[Applause]] And of course, in the face of these thefts, in the face of this state robbery perpetrated with the collaboration of the entire state apparatus, which has mobilized large sums of money to benefit the dictator and his family -- which continues to benefit now -- there is in Galicia a living society, there is a social movement that has been fighting for decades for the recovery of the theft, and has done so at its own time, and has carried it through silence, in the face of impunity, in the face of fear and terror, against the franchise first and then against its supporters and against its protectors, who are very powerful. This fight is a cause of great pride for our country, and it is full of achievements, thanks to the combination of three fronts of work: firstly, the work of organizing and mobilizing many people, which deserves the greatest respect. They deserve respect for them, and they also deserve respect for their banners - which are known to the Government of Galician Union and Mr. Fexóo -. Thanks also to the rigorous investigation of facts to reveal the truth, despite all sorts of traps that still exist. And also thanks to the performance of the institutions, first the councils, then the Parliament of the Crown and also this Parliament. These three fronts of work, which are usually consecutive, like Meirás - from which we will talk, as I say, in the next debate of the next PNL - have produced great achievements, and now there are some who intend to point and put the medals at the end of the course. And, of course, for us, welcome and welcome to all who want to add now, because it is better that they are on this side, but what we cannot consent is that they ignore and insult those who have fought most, who have worked most, with decisions of government, with research and also with mobilizations; with mobilisations of banners and also with mobilisations of barricades, because, thanks to the barricades against which you say, you are sitting there, we are sitting here; as I say, thanks to the barricades and the struggle of many people for decades, who fought against franchises and who fought for the rights and freedoms of our land. [[Applause]] Now the struggle for the recovery of Master Mateo's sculptures - as we know, stolen by the Franco family - is also a history of mobilization, social organization and defence of heritage and collective dignity, and we must recognize the work, starting with the collective The smile of Daniel, who has already raised this flag in 2012 and who deserves our recognition and gratitude. We must also recognize the research work of many people, as has happened to Meirás. Here we must especially acknowledge the great, rigorous, patient and research work of Professor and Doctor Francisco Prado Vilar, who has investigated a set of documentation and which, in addition, can be consulted at this time on the website of the Galician Culture Council. He highlighted the whole itinerary of trouperies committed by Frankism and the Franco family to take over Master Mateo's sculptures. There are details such as letters, for example, from Chamoso Lamas or from Figueira Valverde to Sánchez Cantón, which reveal the precise moment when the transfer of the sculptures will be made, with public writing for sale in 1948 by the Town Hall of Santiago, when he says: "I suppose you are aware of the fate that the City of Santiago intends to give to the two figures of the Portico de la Gloria he had acquired." In 1955, the moment of the transfer of the statues and the time of a robbery, which then attempted to legalize with a maneuver that we cannot qualify but as a troupe, including the sculptures in the catalog of the exhibition of the Romanesque that is made in Compostela in 1961, and which has an executioner who has names and names: Francisco Fuertes de Villavicencio. It's also an example of a book of turning doors from franchise to so-called a democratic transition. And I could give them a lot of details about it. The reality is we're in a paradox. Instead of being prosecuted for this theft at the moment or even now, it turns out that those who have been stolen have to prove ownership, ownership of stolen property. This is authentically the opposite world, a real troupe, and it's the letter of indictment -- which I told you -- of the Transition and of all the governments that allowed that impunity. The Town Hall of Santiago, as we know, resorted to the judicial route, with the result already known, with a justice that was not impartial in this case. I'm not going in to judge the performance of the Town Hall of Santiago, because it's in sight of everyone. I'm sure it was better. But now—after what has happened, moreover, with Meirás—is the time to act and do so urgently, with speed and rigour. Therefore, the opportunity and necessity of this initiative, which refers to the data of this research - which I have referred to - by Francisco Prado Vilar. It has powerful arguments and data to get justice done and those statues back to their legitimate owners. That's why we bring here a proposal that has already been put forward in the Town Hall of Santiago. It has already been unanimously adopted a quite concordant agreement with this on 24 September and was presented publicly by the BNG on 15 September, and also presented that same day in this Parliament. So we too are very glad that, following these initiatives, they put the batteries in place and last Saturday they held an express meeting of the councillor - here present - of Education and Culture and the mayor of Santiago to announce the creation of a working group. The truth is, we can't waste any more time, nor can we lose any more stolen assets. And that's why I would like to inform you here of our willingness to reach a unanimous agreement by this Parliament to pick up the proposal made by the BNG and to integrate also the approaches made by the Socialist Group and the People's Group in their amendments. In that sense, I have already told you that we are going to present to you a proposal for a deal between the three of us. I think it would be a very positive message right now for society as a whole and a step forward that would allow us to move forward in the way of the recovery of those goods, those sculptures. It would also be a very important step to fight a virus that currently extends across Europe...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u30	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u31	...and also for our society, the virus of franchises and fascisms, which is a social disease against which neither purchasing nor complicity are necessary; a virus that must be combated for democratic health...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u32	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u33	...also for collective dignity and because we owe it to all the people who fought for freedom, democracy and Galician national rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u34	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor to Mrs Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. Indeed, today we have not come here to debate the property of the sculptures of Abraham and Isaac, authorship of Master Matthew, nor of his authenticity; it is not our task. Today we have come to speak of memory and we have come to speak of dignity, in this case, of the dignity of the Greek people — which, if we want to do more, we can also say of the dignity of the compostelan people. Today we are talking about ending the impunity of a family that has been the cause of the darkest years of our recent history and has benefited from its position of power, privilege and impunity to increase its personal heritage. We speak of the corrupt fortune of the dictator Franco and his family, who have squandered the goods of our people in the vilest way and who have enriched their heritage with artistic jewels and immobile possessions acquired through extortion and force, as it is proving. I would like to stress at this plenary meeting—it is something that the previous Member has said to me—that, in fact, a motion — the same initiative, only in the form of a motion — has been adopted unanimously in the Council of Santiago. Obviously, this council — by the way, ruled by socialists — and as announced also in January, continues with the strategy of the former local government, which was the one who initiated the judicial complaint; so much so that it appealed to the Supreme Court in marriage, but still remains to be resolved. That Socialist Government, like our parliamentary group, trusts that a new judicial procedure on this matter will be opened in order to bring that documentation back to the table, which believes, without any doubt, that the pieces are the property of the Town Hall of Santiago. And we didn't want to miss the opportunity today to thank the work of both civil society and the research staff who in Galicia spends a lot of their time — and has been spending a lot of their time for many years — documenting and testing the Frank family policy in our country. In this case, the new documentary evidence on the figures of Abraham and Isaac — as has already been said — is the result of the work of historian Francisco Prado Vilar, who, among other things, brings together several letters around the International Exhibition of Romanic Art, which took place in Santiago in 1961, in which pressure is shown to attribute to Franco dictator the property of these figures. It really doesn't seem to be any doubt in the wake of the conversations that in the middle of the last century have held people like the Galician Heritage Commissioner, the mayor of Santiago and the Madrid Heritage Commissioner General; all of them, by the way — as it has been said — published in a special which is published on the website of the Galician Culture Council and of what we also recommend from here their consultation. We're not going to get into the technical-legal issues of this process today, of the ongoing process, it's not our job. But if we would like to add ourselves to the theses of researcher Prado Vilar, who supports in several articles the invalidity of the legal basis of the Usocupation upon which the two judgments favourable to the Franco family seem to be based so far. Uscaping speaks of peaceful possession, and this was not a peaceful solution, nor a peaceful possession, in view of the documentary evidence they believe — as we say — pressures on Francisco Franco's surroundings. To this it must be added that in the record of the acquisition of pieces and in the notarial writing that exists, which is located, there appears expressly a reservation to prevent them from disappearing from the consistory and preserving their public property; in addition to literally saying, "two neighbors and neighbors of Santiago." But, of course, here we're talking about the desire that the heritage should remain in the hands of the people, and we all know that it was what the Franco dictator thought about this issue. And so it was, the pieces came to decorate the official residence, or one of the chief of state residences. So we celebrate, because then, that the Council of Galicia, at last, decided to take an active part in this conflict. And, as expressed last Saturday, the compostal mayor and the cultural councilman -- I don't know if he's speaking but, of course, unexpected, and not for that reason unexpected -- decided to set up a commission to recover Maester Mateo's statues. It seems that this commission is going to value the new documentation that has arrived, and according to what is being studied there, new legal avenues will be initiated. It's a little late, but, well, welcome, it's the same, because the collaboration between administrations is really essential to regain this polished heritage, as has already been demonstrated in the court of Meirás. In this sense, by the way, we explain our amendment, which appeals to two other administrations, such as the Government of the State and the Provincial Deputation of the Crown, for them to accompany in this process as well. Now it's only a matter of asking for speed to end as soon as possible with this injustice and this immorality. We also welcome the recent approval by the Government of Spain of the New Law of Democratic Memory, which, by establishing the right of the victims to the truth — and this is not trivial in what it brings us here today — that the State, and I quote literally, will "promote the initiatives necessary for the investigation of seizures produced by political, ideological, awareness or religious belief during the Civil War and the dictatorship; and in particular, it will conduct an audit of the assets deployed during that period". This rule therefore provides for an inventory of seized goods and rights and, after completion, the possible ways of recognizing the victims, the people affected will be implemented. We really hope that this law that is envisaged can be passed in the first half of next year and facilitates the recovery of all the property stolen and kidnapped by the Francs. All efforts will be few to recover artistic pieces and historical buildings belonging to the people, who belong to us. Its achievement will lead to the restoration of the dignity of many generations, victims of the Frankish dictatorship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u36	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galician People's Group, Mr. Verea Fraiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u37	Thank you, President. The People's Parliamentary Group will work in all instances with all administrations and with all the legal instruments available for the statues of Abraham and Isaac of Master Matthew, declared BIC by the Council of Galicia, to be part of the public heritage. So we did it in the process of recovering Meirades' palace, and we're going to keep the same ideas: joint work, legal and technical solvency and loyalty to the rest of the political actors. The commitment of the self-government is absolute — and thus the transfer of this parliamentary group — and also verifiable in this particular matter. The Galician Union has embarked on and declared these two statues of cultural interest in the DOG of September 4, 2019, which means the largest cultural protection figure in Galicia. We are convinced that this BIC declaration will assist in the recovery process of public heritage, beyond imposing any major obligations, such as conservation duty, access to inspection, right of trial and withdrawal and the duty to allow a public visit time. On this very weekend, the board and the Town Hall of Santiago agreed to create a working group to analyze the latest evidence about the statues and evaluate joint lines of action towards their recovery to the public domain. The establishment of this working group will allow the analysis of the existing material, especially all new documentation that has appeared, which allows opening up new possibilities for complaints, beyond those already raised in the open judicial procedure. Without a doubt, we are faced with a good news that demonstrates the importance of working together. As I said at the beginning, and following the example of Meirás, we remember the importance of working with all possible technical solvency in claims. The joint work meant, especially for spectators outside like me, an example of height of vision and moral, political and intellectual responsibility. We have an opportunity to contribute to demonstrating the superiority of democratic systems over any other form of government based on denial of public rights and freedoms. Let us continue with this example, with the example also of the Town Hall, the board and also of the municipal groups of the Town Hall, where there was this unanimity. We are dealing with an issue that ultimately affects the dignity of many people and, most importantly, the historical dignity of Galicia. That's why, Your Honor, and because we want to maintain the spirit of consensus and dialogue, we want to support your LNP, and for that we propose a simple compromise that also collects the basic aspects of your proposal. I believe that the amendment proposal — I am not going to read it — is already known, in which we mainly focus on the lines of work already agreed between Together and the Town Hall. And as we said, Your Honor, they have all the desire to collaborate with this parliamentary group to achieve unanimity in their proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u38	Thank you very much, Mr Verea. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Bará Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u39	He said the PSOE spokeswoman that she had to end the impunity of the family that benefited from these thefts from a position of power and that she was enriched during the dictatorship, but also during the time she came after. This is important to stress because there were a lot of complications, a lot of convictions, so that this didn't work out until now. And I made reference at your time to the head of state. He is a director of "Spain will never forget who, as a soldier and a statesman, has consecrated all existence to his service." —words of Mr. Juan Carlos I of Borbón's possession, emeritus, or of the Emirates, aren't they?—or "For my Francisco Franco is a living example of his daily patriotic dedication to the service of Spain, I have a great affection and admiration," of course, all this explains a lot of things, explains many things, and cannot be forgotten. The story is important, you have to know it, you have to know it, you have to tell the whole truth from 36 till now. Or, for example, that character who was key to the theft, Fernando Fuertes de Villavicencio, turns out to be head of Francisco Franco's Civil House and immediately became head of the Civil House of Juan Carlos I de Borbón. It's the rotational gates of the transition, which also explain a lot. Anyway, I'm not going to stretch out. I am also not going to refer to the preliminary draft of a democratic, so-called, memory law, which is also a verbal dialectic scavenger for something that we will see at the moment when we respond, we will have time to debate it; and also on that audit that will not really solve the matter of what we are talking about. And we'll talk about it. But if I want to talk about a debate we had here a year ago in this Parliament, which was a missed opportunity for us. We lost a year. Look, in October 2019, the BNG brought here a proposal for debate that proposed to do a research on all the property that had been stripped and stolen by the Franco family, which had been done by the Board of Galicia, the Government of Galicia, and which had also another part, which was to study the ways of their recovery. And now we're there at that point. You voted against it at that time and prevented it from saving time and we made much more progress. So each one must also pay attention to his own responsibility. And lastly, I wanted to refer to this will that I think all groups have to reach an agreement, because at the moment — before a new judicial proceeding was mentioned — of course, this is something that they will have to study experts and calibrate all the appropriate consequences and process moments, because we are already at the time of discount and there is the serious risk of losing a great opportunity, a great battle. So what I bring here, what brings here the BNG, is a proposal for agreement — which forgives me the representative of the People's Party, because the compromise proposals make us the proposed group based on the amendments presented by the other groups — that we think we take the spirit, and even the content, of the proposals that make the amendments both of the Socialist Party and of the People's Party. Then the proposal of agreement — Leo — would be: "To continue the open path in the recent ruling on the Peace of Meirás, fruit of the coordinated work of the social initiative" — it is also important to highlight the role of social movements and institutions — "in order to investigate and document the spole of the statues of Jeremías, Abraham, Ezekiel and Isaac declared BIC and to study the ways for their recovery by the Town Council of Santiago." And, a second point, which says, "Building a working group with the Town Hall of Santiago, open to the participation of the Crown and the State Government" -- because this is in the literality of the agreement taken by the Town Hall of Santiago -- "as well as specialists in the legal and historical fields and associations of defence of the heritage" -- would be a good gesture to include there, for example, the Association of Defense of the Romanian Heritage "The Smile of Daniel", who was first raised by this flag -- "which value the lines of action towards the recovery of sculptures", including, of course, that judicial action which many expert jurists say must be taken with great agility and speed taking into account the juridical background of this case and the recent ruling on the Peace of Meirás. This is the proposal for an agreement. I think it would be a great step forward to achieve what we have already achieved — at least in part — in the case of the struggle for the restoration of the Peace of Meirás. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u40	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. If you can get us to draft the proposal, if it is accepted, we would like to thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We now move on to the next non-law proposal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Diego Calvo Pouso and seven other Members, on the demand that the Government of Greece should make to the Central Government in order to include disinfectant masks and hydrogels in the list of goods to which the reduced VAT rate of 10% applies, or the over-reduced of 4%
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u41	This initiative has been amended by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego and by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u42	To formulate the non-law proposition has the floor to Mrs. Amigo Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u43	Good morning, gentlemen. Thank you very much, President. This year that we are living has conditioned us all the way and the way to live in all the worlds of our lives. At the end of 2019 in November news came from China about a respiratory disease by a coronovirus so far unknown. After months of uncertainty, on 11 March the World Health Organization declared the pandemic by coward-19, and in our country, by Royal Decree 463/2020 of 14 March, it declared the state of alarm for the management of the situation of the health crisis caused by coward-19 — subsequently extended, ultimately, by the publication of 23 May of Royal Decree 537/2020 of 22 May, thereby extending the state of alarm, declared by the above-mentioned decree. With this statement of the state of alarm, the Minister of Health was empowered to dictate orders, resolutions, provisions and interpretative instructions which, within its scope of action as delegated authority, were necessary to ensure the provision of all ordinary or extraordinary services for the protection of persons, goods and places. As I said, since last March 14 the state of alarm had been declared as a result of the pandemic by the coward-19, as has happened throughout the rest of the world also the life of the Greeks and the Greeks radically changed in all areas of life, of education, social, labor and also in the economic sphere. The confinement in our homes made them change all our routines, habits and habits. The exits were restricted only to our work, to the management of the most urgent and essential procedures and to the first-necessary purchases. The end of the alarm state has allowed many of the restrictions to be lifted, but the reality is that we are faced with an infectious disease with very high transmission and that the coward-19 virus is found in the respiratory drops that have a very small diameter, between 5 and 10 nanomicrograms, and that come out of the mouth or nose, coughing or scratching, or even speaking, of an infected patient — whether they have symptoms or not. If these viruses reach the mucosa of the mouth or nose, or the conjunctive of a person's eyes, it can get infected. In what ways? Basically in two ways: by direct transmission when you are in close contact — less than one metre — with an infected patient, and that these respiratory drops reach the mucosa — and that is why it is isolation — or by indirect transmission by fomites. These drops that have a viral load can be on surfaces or objects that can last hours — every day, depending on the material. And if we touch those objects and then take our hands to the face, to the nose or to the eyes, we can also contaminate ourselves. On July 5, 2020, the World Health Organization makes a global recommendation: it recommends the general use of masks of cloth if there is no physical distance and recommends the surgical mask for more than 60 years — and for people with chronic diseases too. And in our country, in Spain, from 20 May 2020, and according to the Ministry of Health Order 422/2020, of 19 May, which regulates the conditions for mandatory use of the mask during the health crisis, it will be necessary to wear masks mandatoryly in the following conditions: for more than 6 years, on the public highway, outdoor spaces or any closed space for public use; and in some cases persons under 6 years of age are exempt, persons with some type of respiratory difficulty who may be aggravated by the use of the mask or due to justified health reasons, or for any situation of disability or dependence that presents changes in conduct that make their use impossible, and also in the development of physical activities or causes of force majeure. This order was subsequently modified by each autonomous community to make its mandatory use despite being able to maintain the distance of security. And, of course, the use of masks should not replace any of the other recommendations, such as washing and handwashing, avoiding touching the face, keeping the physical distance of at least 2 meters or keeping quarantine mandatory in all confirmed positives or cases of suspicion. One thing we must be clear: we are all potentially asymptomatic positives and, as such, we must act accordingly. Well, the non-legislative proposal that we are bringing to this Parliament today is to call on the Central Government to reduce the VAT of masks and hydro-alcoholic gel from 21% today to 10%, or rather to an over-reduced type of 4%. It seems to us a proposal of common sense. Suppose an important cost for many families who are currently going through critical times. It is estimated that the annual average cost for a family of four members is about 300 euros a year. We are talking about this as a public health problem, and at exceptional moments such as those we are living in, we must also take exceptional measures. Although the Government, through Royal Decree No. 7/2020 of 12 March, urgent measures are taken to respond to the economic impact of the Covid-19, the possibility of regulating the pricing mechanism for medicines and health products not subject to medical prescription — and so done in April — has been reserved, the risk of setting an incorrect maximum price is the possible again generation of shortage of articles which, as shown in the explanatory statement, are essential for all people. And from what we are seeing, they will continue to be essential for all citizenship in the immediate future to prevent new outbreaks and thus be able to control the pandemic. Since the People's Party, we have always held that an effective and immediate measure to reduce and make more affordable these articles would be to lower the type of VAT that is applied to a reduced type, as I said earlier, of 10%, or to the over-reduced of 4%, and to other pharmaceutical products that are also essential. This proposal was transferred by President Feijóo to the Government of Spain at the Conference of Presidents held on 19 April this year and reiterated it in successive calls — the last of them held on 31 July in Rioxa. The People's Group in the Congress of Deputies in Madrid, through Mr Jaime de Olano, on an initiative in this sense discussed in the Committee on the House of Congress — and which, of course, counted on the vote against the parties of the Government, both the PSOE and the United Nations, also asked for it, and presented amendments in this direction in the handling of various decrees that were dealt with as bills in Congress. For all the above reasons, since the People's Party's Parliamentary Group we have tabled the following non-legislative proposal: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to request the Government of the State to amend Article 91 of Law 37/1992, the value added tax, so that the disinfectant masks and hydrogels are included in the list of goods to which the reduced type of VAT is applied by 10%, or the super-reduced by 4%." I am grateful and hope that this initiative — which, as I said, has already been presented in other parliaments — will be supported by all groups of the House. It seems to us an initiative of common sense that will bring many Spaniards — if done — in the economy of many Greeks, many benefits. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u44	Thank you very much, Mrs. Friend. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr. Francisco Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u45	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone and all the Members who are here in the House today. First of all, I wanted to show on behalf of the Socialist Group our support, our solidarity, with all those affected by the cowardice, as it is logical, in the whole country, and also a reminder to the deceased, who are more than 765 right now. And especially — we will be allowed, as the Member of Ourense, together with other Members of the Socialist Group, the BNG and the People's Group — to express our concern about the situation that is going through our province, and especially the city of Ourense and the municipality of Barbados, now confined; a concern that extends, in the health field, as is logical, to the whole of the province — other municipalities are also seeing limited the social capacity of their neighbours — and a concern that also extends, in the economic field, to a devastated province in many axes of their economic and productive sector, an abandoned, aging province, which needs positive discrimination from the Union — and at this moment much more — which needs the involvement of the public administrations, needs the involvement of the Galician Union, and needs the Council of Galicia to adopt direct aid measures to the autonomous and the pemes that constitute the fundamental and essential fabric of the economy of that province. In that sense, it is important — as our parliamentary spokesperson, Gonzalo Caballero, has done — that Mr Feijóo also unlocks the political situation in the city of Ourense, a political situation that is currently unsustainable and endangers the aid and demands of the neighbours who are currently facing a crisis if they are being cared for. And already focusing on the initiative in question, Madam Friendly, I do not discuss, at last, that this is an initiative with good intent, I think it is from good faith, of course. It's an initiative that logically will have and has social responsiveness, because it is considered in an area such as tax reduction, which can logically have a kind acceptance by society as a whole. But it also seems to us that it is an opportunistic initiative, by the moment it is proposed, and quite demagogic. It is opportunistic at the moment because in a situation of economic drama, in a situation of falling consumption, demand and, as a result, tax collection, you will also tell me whether by reducing taxes we can maintain the current state of well-being, whether we can maintain the sustainability of public accounts or even finance public expenditure. And this initiative is demagogic because you actually carry in your DNA this tax reduction, tax drop. But when they rule they take less. And when it touched them to rule crisis situations, as in 2012, they had no doubt to raise taxes to the whole of citizenship as never happened in the Spanish state. At the same time, EVV — the normal type — increased from 18% to 21%, and the reduced type increased from 8% to 10%. [[Applause]] In this context, in the years 2012-2013, in a crisis situation, you have had no effort to raise taxes on citizens. And in the current crisis situation, as we are living — even deeper — you come with a debate of this nature. I believe that you want to confront the Government of the State by means of an autonomous parliament, put your finger on the Government, and debate it by means of an initiative which is ultimately a fiscal initiative. Indeed, this initiative has already been discussed in the Committee on the House of Deputies on the basis of a number of groups. I was also told yesterday by the Mrs BNG that BNG also had an initiative in that direction in the Congress of Deputies itself. The position of the groups in that debate is what it is. At the same time, the position of the Socialist Group is indeed known. I do not discuss it that these types of initiatives can be dealt with in the Galician Parliament via the GNP. But I believe that the appropriate framework, the appropriate forum for debate on these kinds of initiatives that basically seek to change a law, is the scope of the Congress of Members, where, indeed, the People's Party has Members and Members — also Greeks — who can propose a legislative amendment in that area. And also, since the Spanish legal system not only conforms to the laws but also to the European directives, as a result of their transposition into the Spanish legal field, it would be appropriate for Members of the People's Party to also raise their concerns with regard to the amendment of the legislation of the VAT by requesting the amendment of European Directive 112/2006, which, as you well know, Members and Members of the People's Party, is applicable in Spain and limits the powers of the states especially to include the reduced type of VAT in certain products. That is to say, in the Annex to the directive itself contains that products are subject to a reduced VAT, among which, of course, there is no such product, such as masks and disinfectant products, to which the People's Party Member wishes to be lowered. However, we do not see this debate at last from the point of view of confrontation. We understand the position and also the situation in this country. We also understand the impact it can have on the citizens' economy. But we want this debate, in so far as it is a tax debate, if it is done in the corresponding fields, not unless what happened in 2013, when Spain had a fall in the types of VAT on certain products and was then convicted by the Court of Justice of the European Union for including among the types of reduced VAT products that did not have that category. Finally, is it possible to reduce the VE from the masks? Of course, it's possible to modify the legislation of the IVE. Is it legal with the legal order we have right now? It is always legal and when an amendment to the European directive is made. The position of the Spanish Government I believe that in this sense it is legal and adjusted to law, it is coherent and, in addition, it is adopted in the defence of consumers. At the same time, the Spanish State has adopted the possibility that public bodies, including the Autonomous Community of Galicia, entities, NGOs or hospitals, will promote the acquisition of such products not with a reduced VAT but with a zero VAT, i.e., without paying absolutely any type of VAT, even exempting them from customs duties, as long as such products go to free distribution and therefore these entities, public bodies, hospitals and NGOs do not receive consideration as a result of that delivery. The position of the Spanish Government is indeed known. I think he acted coherently. It made a maximum price, a price of EUR 0.96; in addition, a price that prevented and prevented speculation, prevented seizure, prevented market rules concerning supply and demand from coming into line with the price. Finally, he avoided, by adjusting the price, that the profits in relation to production costs were excessive. I believe that this ultimately also benefits the final consumer, the citizens, to the extent that it prevents the market from regulating prices. This is a question which, in fact, if it did not propose, if the Government did not adjust the prices of masks and if it left itself to market freedom, because of course every kind of reduction in the VAT that had been made...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u46	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u47	...would be swallowed as a result of the imposition of a market price. In the face of the situation—now finished—...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u48	Thank you very much. It's out of time now, Mr. Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u49	No, no...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u50	Yes, yes, when it's purple, it indicates it's past.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u51	Yeah, yeah, I'm done giving myself ten seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u52	No, you know what's going on? We accept that in intervention they can talk about certain matters, and sometimes they have to be inventive to relate them. You used two minutes to talk about something... [[Mr. Francisco Rivera utters words that are not perceived.]] No, I'm sorry, I'm telling you not to happen again. He used two minutes to talk about something else. And when time's up, time's up, and it's up to you. [[Mr. Francisco Rivera: I'm exceeding ten seconds.]] Well, I'm telling you, I'm done. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u53	Well, thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u54	Thank you very much, sir. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, you have the floor of Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u55	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. I would also like to add to the concerns expressed by the other speakers of this House for the situation and evolution of our whole country, but specifically also of Ourense, hoping that as soon as possible it can improve. Well, by going to the question presented in the initiative — which is already ahead of time that we are going to support from the Galego Nationalist Block — it is true that, when we talk about the demand for tax relief, in this case of value added tax on one or more elements, because it is always a dilemma or should always represent a dilemma or a disjunctive from the point of view of our political decision. I think it deserves a deep reflection, regardless of whether the motives of the People's Party are more or less exhaled. It is clear that lowering a tax means having an impact on collection. That must be taken into account in a context, in addition, of deep economic crisis as we shall see. This has an impact, especially in this case, on the state, but also on a part for Galicia, because we receive part of the collection in the EVV and through the net collection of funding. Since BNG we've been aware of these issues and that it's not a minor decision. But precisely this extraordinary pandemic context, what it does is that it seems absolutely essential, because we understand that the reasons for health protection and social justice must be above the attempt to raise them, in this case of the Central Government. And we understand that it is very necessary to reduce this EVV. We have also claimed this in the area of the Congress of Members and Members, and especially those of the masks and for several reasons. We think, first of all, that public health is more important than any other issue on the table, and that we have to take steps to help them not to be a handicap when we talk about health. There are numerous studies that demonstrate scientifically and objectively that the social class and economic capacity of families and people directly affects health, which directly influences the life estimate and the estimated years of life in situations of full capacity, the early detection of diseases, etc. So by bringing this pre-pandamy learning to the present day — which we already have, I insist, with objective data — because I think we have to put all our efforts on the table so that social and economic conditions do not have an impact on the ability to protect against this pandemic. We are also seeing in successive debates in other territories about health measures — but also in our country — as well as class bias also influences the expansion of the pandemic. And, therefore, it seems logical that if the public authorities arbitrate the obligation of that protective element, such as the mask, and strongly recommend that the use of hydro-alcoholic gels, they offer themselves at an appropriate price. In fact, since the Galician Nationalist Block we have tabled an amendment to this initiative by the People's Party calling for further action, so that the Galician Union, also from its own competences and from its economic capacity, can do its utmost to ensure that the most vulnerable groups have direct and free access to these elements. They have already voted against this House of the European Parliament on the distribution of free masks in educational centres. But we keep insisting. It is necessary for the Union to guarantee this type of material to all the most vulnerable groups, and especially to those with complicated socio-economic conditions, in such important areas and with such risk conditions — regardless of what the teaching adviser said yesterday — such as schools, schools, etc. We insist on this amendment that the Galician Union fulfils its share, because indeed I do not believe that the proposal itself to lower the VE of masks and jellyfish is, as the Socialist, demagogic or opportunistic spokesman said, but I do believe that the People's Party is, at times, with its attitude and also with the attitude of not trying to bring anything near to Galician Union and bring this proposal to debate. So, even if we approve of it, we'd like there to be some political will and that I also put something on Galician board for you. I would also like to move two reflections here on the question that we are debating. It is necessary to remember that the VAT is precisely the most selfish tax, so to speak, that we have in social terms, because it also affects people, regardless of whether their salary at the end of the month does not reach the SMI or covers three SMIs, by setting an example, or not having a salary at the end of the month. It is a tax that mainly taxes direct consumption, and the goal is basically that the end consumer ends up paying a tax on the product or service he enjoys. Just a week ago, we knew the data from the National Institute of Statistics, for example, about the average salary of the Greeks and the Greeks. It is true that in the last known data of 2018 — prepandemia — it increases with respect to previous years, but we know that this will have an impact also after this coronary virus event. And we also know that he tells us that one in four Galician employees earns less than the minimum wage per month. I mean, most people don't get to be what we call "Milleurists." So let's take into account the economic impact it can have on a person who has to support another. So the spending, for example, of two masks for that person and his child throughout the day for a whole month is already 100 euros and I peak. So it's a considerable amount. But above all, I wanted to leave a reflection here on the table, and it is feasible to do so. It's a decision that, if there's political will, it could be made. In that sense, from the BNG we appeal to the Central Government to leave the sovereignty that we are seeing as having other decisions, such as what we saw from the remaining municipalities — which it had to rectify — and that in this matter you feel talking to the other groups, because it might be possible to do so. It's the legislative power that decides those downs of the IV. It is true that there is a European conditionality, which we were also talking about yesterday. But the truth is, if we look at the surroundings, other countries, such as France, like Italy or Portugal, did apply discounts. And they applied those discounts for something, because we're in a situation of absolute exceptionality. And by setting an example for our own house — and that they don't hurt me by the legal services or the presidency of the House — we saw a period in which there was a Permanent Deputy who worked with a delegated vote that doesn't exist. And so it worked, based on a political consensus, more or less implicit, of the forces we were here, other forces that were not in Parliament, in the face of an exceptional situation. Because I think no one would expect anyone to claim legal and judicially that that delegation of vote existed. For with this it is a bit the same, and the key to it is Antonio Costa, the President of Portugal, who said that, in fact, with the law in hand, with the European directive in hand, that discount could not be applied but that it was certain — we understand that off the record — that the European Commission would not resort to this decision. Then we ask the Socialist Government to have the same courage that they had as different governments as Portugal's, Italy's, or France's, who applied VAT reductions — even in the case of Italy with a reduction to 0% — up to the beginning of 2021, which will go to 5% or 7% — I do not remember well—. In any case, it is an aid to many economies and the social majority of this country. So for us, above all technicalisms, above all reflections on economic responsibility, must be the collective health of people. And we think that in a matter like this, it's the least you can do, and that other issues, such as that exemption from VAT for the purchase of hospital material, or other social support issues, after all, do not just cover as wide as this discount would cover in the VAT. So these are the issues we wanted to put on the table. We are going to support this initiative, as it was already done, in the same way that we are also moving it into initiatives in the area of Congress of Members and Members, and we do believe that there would be margin and that such a question could be promoted. But I want to insist again that this does not exempt the Galician Union from having a self-government that is to be used, and therefore capable. If he is so concerned about access to these goods that they are of the utmost need today, a little bit of the story is being applied, and at least measures are being put in place so that the most vulnerable people and groups can have access to these kinds of issues. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u56	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, you have the floor to Mrs. Amigo Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u57	Good morning again. Thank you very much, President. Well, I appreciate the support of the BNG. I'm not sure if we're going to have the Socialist Party's support. I don't know if they can oppose their party in Madrid. It is a proposal which, as I said before, was debated in the Congress of Deputies and had the vote against the party in the Government, of that party that they have there PSOE and United Nations Podemos. And, of course, nothing can surprise us of the way they act in their government, because the central government has handled this pandemic since its inception in the worst way they could do it. He ignored the warnings about the coronovirus two days before the 8M Multiversinary March, International Women's Day; warnings which were presented by the European Health Commissioner and the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, at the European Union Health Council held on 6 March, a meeting in which, in addition to being President of the Government, Mr Illa was the Minister of Health. At this meeting, Stella Kyriakides, the European Commissioner for Health, asked the member states to reflect on the holding of major public acts to curb the spread of cranavirus infections, and also warned of the importance of ensuring PPE for health care. There was no lack of warning from the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control. Alarm mechanisms were requested, but Spain did not declare the alarm status until March 14, eight days later. They heard the words of the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control. I don't know which part they didn't understand, I don't think they understood any of these warnings. Also before March 8th, the National Security Department warned the PSOE-United coalition government that the increase in cases... I don't know what's strange, Mr. Torrado, it's a PSOE-United Government. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There's no doubt about it, I understand. [[Murmurs.]] And one day before the 8th March rally... well, what won the coalition elections, well, well... okay, okay, okay! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Strong murmurers.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u58	Quiet, quiet, please. No, Mr. Torrado, silence, because you'll make him call the order. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u59	One day before these demonstrations, the World Health Organization also called for public health measures to be considered to prevent stacking, cancellation of massive meetings and closing of schools. On the other hand, Mrs. Montero says she's not going to raise the taxes of middle and working classes. Look, they take little care of the pocket of the most disadvantaged. This, as I said earlier, is an exceptional measure in the state in which we are, exceptionally. The use of mask is mandatory, we all have to carry it and we must carry it. It's a public health problem. Then there's no doubt about it, compulsory use under penalty. Mr. Francisco Rivera said they were worth 0.96 cents. But it's just that 0.96 cents in a family is very much assumed. I fully agree with Mrs. Noa Presas that, if there is political will, it is done the same way it was done in Portugal, because the Portuguese legislation since May 7 has lowered the VAT of masks. And France did the same, Italy did the same. Here it's incredible that you pay the same VAT for a car as for masks. And we pay less VAT for industrial bakery or refreshment. You were talking about taxes. Look, in 2012 what the People's Government did was fix the outcome that Mr. Zapatero's Government left. We're not going to compare or mix things here, eh! You, Mr. Francis Rivera, make the same criticism as Mr. Ortega of the PSOE in the same PNL. He trained her in demagogics and made to deceive the delinquents. I don't understand either. This is opportunistic, is it demagogic...? I don't understand. Well, again, I appreciate your support. I think we're facing a measure that's important. And as for the amendments, I would like to point out that you should know that the Education Council informed the Council of October 1 that the Galician Council will inject a total of 23.5 million euros into public education centres to meet the safety and hygiene needs of the covid-19...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u60	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u61	...a match with which you could purchase hygienic masks for the less resourced student.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u62	Thank you very much, Mrs. Friend. With the amendments will you get into a transaction or not?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u63	No, we're not going to accept them because we understand that the measures taken since the Education Council...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u64	All right, all right. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr Pablo Arangéna Fernández and two other Members, on the position of the Galician Parliament in relation to the dedication and effort of all persons, entities and institutions who made possible the recovery for the public heritage of the palace of Meirás
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u65	This motion for a non-law amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block and by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u66	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mr. Arangüena Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the recent Judgment 137/2020 of 2 September, by the Court of First Instance No. 1 of the Crown, declares the nullity of the titles of acquisition of the palace of Meiraes by the dictator Francisco Franco. This is a historical judgment, the first of its kind in Spain, which opens the door for the recovery of a good which has been fraudulently obtained by the dictator taking advantage of his privileged position of total state domination; a good of which he has enjoyed more than three decades and of which he continues to enjoy his family until the present. The judgment says that, literally, "Franco paid nothing, the purchase agreement is a fiction with the only object of putting good in his name." The purchase writing, recently recovered by the state lawyer, was key to the resolution, as the ruling itself acknowledges. In other words, if it were not for that writing — we insisted, found by the State Counsel, following instructions, obviously, from the State Government — it would not be possible to recover the title of the good for the State, after a declaration of nullity of the transmission in favour of the Franco dictator. The ruling collected that the agreement by which the previous owner sold the so-called "Junta Pro Pazo", together with the subsequent writing of 1941 for which Franco bought the palace, was a simulation, a fraud to record the property in the name of the dictator. And it was thanks to the intervention of the State Advocate—reiterate—that at the beginning of 2019 was obtained that notarial document that remained hidden in the archive of Notary Protocols of the Crown and that dismantled the ambush devised by the dictator, the notarial document based on which, on July 11, 2019, the demand for recovery of the property for the State heritage was presented. On July 26, 2019, Galician Union submitted a letter requesting its intervention as a co-adjuvant part of the state's demand, as did the Sada Council in September 2019 and that of the Crown in January 2020. The judgment itself collects, as a fundamental argument to dismantle the argument of uninterrupted peaceful possession by the dictator's family, a relationship of historical movements developed in favour of the recovery of good by the State. Thus, in the judgment of 2 September 2020, the result of this demand made by the State Counsel, on its legal basis 15, page 384 of the judgment, literally says the following — which I consider to be of great importance to point out —: "In the documentary file 36 of the request it is believed that after Francisco Franco's death important civil and political movements are beginning to arise that defend the recovery of the peace for public use and that they question the legitimacy of the possession by their heirs. The first demands are made in 1977 by the Galician People's Assembly and the People's Culture Center of the Crown. And in February 1978, a proposal by the Socialist Party for restitution to its rightful owner and his conversion into the seat of the future self-government was made public. In 1982 the acquisition of the palace by the then mayor of the Crown was planted, giving rise to dissenting views in the consistory. In April 1983 the same municipality urged the State to recover the property for its subsequent transfer or reversion to the municipal estate. In 1983 there were movements within the Town Hall of Sada for the purpose of insulating the free transfer of the palace in favour of that Town Hall. In 1986 the PSdeG asked the Town Hall to pronounce itself on the recovery of the palace. Since 2004 the social claim around the Meirás palace has intensified as a result of the creation of the Commission for the Recovery of Historical Memory, and citizens' concentrations will be constant. And the Galician Parliament, on 11 July 2018, unanimously agreed to urge the State Administration to carry out legal actions for the recovery of the peace for the public heritage, bringing together the report of the committee of experts drawn up for this purpose. And the General Administration of the State submits the request for the initiation of the proceeding on 10 July 2019." She also says that "the possibility of articulating this demand stems from an important historical study and social consensus achieved after many years, which responds to the maturity of the democratic system." On the basis of all the above, our proposal is that the Galician Parliament recognises the dedication and effort of all people as well as of public and private entities who, with their input and impulse, have made possible a historic judgment which, still pending of appeal, makes it possible and opens the door in a clear manner to the recovery of the peace of Meirás — which had been fraudulently obtained by the dictator Francisco Franco — in particular, the municipalities of Sada and the Crown, the Provincial Parliament and the Council of Galicia, the historians and entities of all kinds who collaborated in the collective effort to recover this good for the public heritage; and, in general, of all those who made this achievement possible. In particular, the work of the General Directorate for Historical Memory of the Government of Spain and the Government of Spain itself, which urged the recovery of the palace through the demand submitted on 10 July 2019. So first of all, our proposal aims to put into effect a historical fact, because for the first time it is recognized in a judicial resolution of this silence that Francisco Franco was a genuine corrupt, in addition to a coup and dictator who by his acts caused the death of hundreds of thousands of victims in our country, the exile of so many others and the repression of so many others; a genuine corrupt who was able to force the citizenship of the corrupt county to pay to give him the peace of Meirás and simulate legal operations to put good on his name. But that's not all, because Franco was a corrupt who, according to historian Angel Viñas, had already massacred in 1940 a fortune equivalent to 400 million euros of the present. And the robbery, the robbery and the plunder of the Meirás palace is just one more example of that corruption that has generated for the Franco family an enormous heritage than that family still lives today — by the way, quite numerous. And that's why this sentence, with all the effort of many people and the political will behind it, must be recognized. Secondly, recognizing the wounds that involve a civil war as ours was, and the reluctance that generates recognition of the reality of historical facts — that is, Franco was a hitter, a bloody dictator and a corrupt one — our proposal is in itself an effort to reconcile and agree, since it implies recognizing the totality of individual, public and private people, who with their work or their commitment have allowed the incorporation of the peace of Meirás into the hands of the state. We cite with special character the Government of Spain and the corresponding Secretariat of State, because they had a leading role, but also the municipalities of Sada and the Coruña, the Provincial Deputies of the Crown and finally also the Council of Galicia, despite the fact that the founder of the PP was a militant and minister of franchise, despite the fact that the PP is opposed to historical memory and despite the fact that the Union only accepted clearly reluctantly, and forced by social pressure, the political and finally legal initiative, for the recovery of the peace of Meirás. [[Applause]] This initiative has parents, mothers, grandparents and grandparents; and, among them, marked PSOE. As I mentioned earlier in detailing the ruling itself, in February 1978 a proposal by the Socialist Party was made public for restitution to its legitimate owner and his conversion into the seat of the future self-government. That is, forty-two years before this judgment, forty years before the Galician Parliament instituted the recovery of the peace, the Socialist Party had already demanded the recovery of that good and even proposed that it be the seat of the future self-government, while the political predecessors of the PP's deputies and deputies here today were questioning democracy and opposing this autonomous state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Aranguena. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Bará Torres has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u69	Thank you, President. Well, if you want to know what happened, I recommend you read this book. It's a real gem, an impressive job. [[Mr. Bará Torres shows a book from the stage.]] It was absolutely fundamental throughout the process. [[Applause]] If there's anything that was fundamental, it was this book. Of course, now that we are already in version 6.0 of the Meirás debate in this Parliament, we are called a little attention that the Socialist Party wants to put on the medals. Of course, and even appealing to the information in the ruling that the Socialist Party has already proposed in 1978 the recovery of the palace and its conversion into the seat of the Greek Government, I ask you: what have you done in all those years in which there have been absolute majority in the state to make that request effective? Because, of course, you have to be a little cautious about what you say to point out merits. [[Applause]] Of course, here we have to do the story of what happened, and the judgment makes an account — which is an account, of course, interested in looking for those arguments that favor the final decision — and there is another account, which is a account of the struggles for the return of the palace of Meirás. And in that process -- as I said before -- there are three elements that are fundamental, essential: the first was social mobilization, social mobilization and organization, without that there would be nothing later; the second, historical research and demonstration with many years of silent and altruistic research -- because these people didn't charge anything for it, nor even for advising, essentially, the state's lawyer, nor for acting as the experts of that demand -- and, third, institutional action, action in which everyone has their role, and it is also necessary to know well how that process was and who was incorporated and at what time. So, in that story, this photograph is fundamental. Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Mr. Bará Torres shows a photograph from the stage.]] This photograph is a mobilisation called by the CRMH, the Commission for the Recovery of Historical Memory, of the Coruña, on November 20, 2005. If they noticed, there were no more than ten or twelve people here asking for the return of Meirades' palace. Thanks to this mobilization, we're here. And all these people who for a long time preached in the desert must be recognized, and they seemed to ask for the impossible. [[Applause]] Well, thanks to them, we've been able to make a lot of progress. And there was also another key moment and of what we are talking about, which is a change of government that took place in the Town Hall of Sada in 2007, when he enters the mayor and exercises as mayor Abel López Soto, who promotes an initiative approved in the plenary by most — not unanimously — to request the statement as BIC of the palace of Meirás. And that change was fundamental, because the mayor who had before — I'm not going to say what party it was — what he did was re-align the land around Meiras for the great business of the Franco family — and we all know who we're talking about. And what happened at that time? That there was a frontal opposition by the Franco family, who resorted to the courts to prevent BIC's statement and ultimately turned out to be also decisive. And do you know who had the support of the Franco family at that time? From the spokesperson for the People's Party in this Parliament, Mr. Nuñez Fexóo, who said, "You can't declare BIC because it's not a palace, it's an impressive tower!" [[Murmurs.]] In two words, "impressive." Mr. Fexóo said, "If you want to recover assets, you will recover those belonging to Galicia and not towers like those of Meirás, which do not reach the category or the historical characteristics of the palaces." That's right there in the hemero library, so you know, that you have to tell the whole story. And what happened next? The Francos opposed this BIC statement in the courts. Finally he triumphed over the position of the Government of Galicia, because there was also a government — that some say he brought here all the biblical plagues, that government of when BNG was in the Council of Culture of the Galician Union — that promoted the approval of the peace towers of Meirás as BIC. And that's the first time we put the Francs on the defensive and against the ropes. And do you know who came out for your help? Because, of course, it's a family that has few resources, and then, when the judicial process is solved in 2010 and we need to open the peace towers of Meirás in 2011, it turns out that they receive a generous grant from the Galician Group of the People's Party to the Franco family to open the peace of Meirás, something they have to do by law. And they get 53,000 euros from the Galician Group of the People's Party. And that also has to be told because it's the historical truth. And besides, it was done, look at you, when you were committing the greatest cuts in the field of culture and when you were liquidating all the policies of memory that I had put in place that two-party government that were so disturbing to you, when they annihilated the project "Names and voices" and when they converted the "Isle of Memory", the island of San Simón, into the "Isle of thought", which at last was the "Isle of forgetfulness." [[Applause]] This is one of the blackest pages in the history of the Greek Government, to give 53,000 euros -- I think it's even a crime -- to a corrupt family, a thief, to open something they have to do by law. And you have to know this, too. So what happened next? That there was a series of complaints from the moment that the Galician Board cut off its bill — logically, because the scandal was capitale — that there were a series of complaints from the Sada Town Hall for failure to comply with the obligation to open the palace that ended in 2017, finally, at the opening of a file by the Galician Board, which ended with a fine of 4,500 euros, when the law provided for a maximum fine of 6,000 euros, and which never arrived to be charged. And this also has to be told, never came to charge. If they want, I'll tell them why. I don't have time today, but I tell them why; because I went to San Caetano to look for a file—which under article 9 they didn't give me, and I had to go there to consult him because they didn't want to deliver it. And that's also part of the story. And then what happened in those famous days of the end of July 2017, when there's this unnamed provocation by the Franco Foundation, which announces that you will use Meirás to create there a franchise theme park, of exaltation of the dictatorship, of exaltation of the repression and exaltation of the figure of the dictator. And that provokes a genuine social, political and institutional revolt that effectively obliges the People's Party, because we left it no more way out than it had to be a long time ago. And at that time it is essential that this book be published in November 2017. Curiously, when many editorials closed his doors, it was published by the Gallica Foundation all the time, and that must be said and known. And at that time it was also important a symbolic act, which was the peaceful occupation of the Meirás palace, for which some democratic and nationalist militants are being prosecuted. Because the Francos are not being processed here, the Democrats are being processed here, like those who occupied — also symbolically, to denounce the theft — the Cornide house, which will be processed next week, as has also been denounced and processed by the Francos by Mr. Carlos Babío, the author of this book. [[Applause]] The world in reverse, as I have said on many occasions. At that time, the performance of the Crown Deputation and, within the Crown Deputation, its Vice President Goretti Sanmartín, who stood in front of it. It called on the institutions — the Galician Union too, by the way, which did not attend — the municipalities, which were part — because the Deputies were the ones who led precisely that of the theft, that of the police, and associations of historical memory of the whole of Galicia. On 9 August, this meeting was convened, from which a brilliant idea emerged: the creation of the Union for the Return of Peace — the reverse face of the "One for the Stealing of Peace" of 1937, 1938, and 1939. And from there came everything, came the judicial and historical study promoted by the Deputation of the Crown, which was key in the argument of the judgment. The document actually appeared, but the one who set the way was that report led in the legal field by Xavier Ferreira, who spoke of that fraudulent purchase, that fake sale of the year 1942. From that point on, indeed, a unanimous agreement was adopted in this Parliament to urge the Union to conduct this judicial and historical study. There have been agreements between the Parliament of the Crown and Parliament. And there was finally a change — which must also be recognized as fundamental — which was, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the change of the Government of the State in 2018. Because I am convinced that, if this change does not occur — and I have to admit it — it would not be that demand, or it would take a long time to present that demand — that I say it was basically supported by the legal argument of the Crown Deputy and also by the historical information of the principal adviser of that request, which was Mr. Carlos Babío and also Mr. Manuel Pérez Lourido, co-author of this book. And I'm done now, because I think this process teaches us something that's very important to the history of this country, and it's that, as many great thinkers have said, such as Margaret Mead or Rebecca Solnit, small groups of people can change the world. And the first thing to change is the historical and cultural story, and then the changes come. And thanks to that, we've seen that a few people have been manifesting in November 2005 in front of the Meirás palace that we are now facing the opportunity to make a great historic leap...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u70	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u71	...recovering for the Greek people the palace of Meirás and all the heritage swept away by franchise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u72	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Pazos Couñago has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We begin the debate by recovering great classics from Greek parliamentaryism, such as that habit of insulting and disregarding the same majority group that is subsequently asked for support, an old custom that has not yielded too much good results in the past. In any case, I made two preliminary clarifications. First of all, to find out that Francisco Franco was a corrupt because the truth is we didn't need a sentence. We already knew it before, because unlike other groups we know, this group knows, that every dictator, by definition, is a corrupt, and we don't make any distinction between the color of the dictators. [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] Similarly, I must make it clear to Mr. Aranguena that the People's Party is not opposed to historical memory, it is opposed to the partisan use of historical memory. I mean, what you just did right now. Because I want to make it clear to you, uh, that the founder of my party, among many other things... yes, he is a father of the Constitution, a father of the Constitution, of the same constitution, by the way, which allowed the restoration of the Meirades towers to the public. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] I have to start right now, focusing on this, showing the surprise that wakes me up...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u74	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u75	Ma'am, let Mr Bará have something to say, that something's up to him too. I have to show the surprise of this group and my staff on the issues that the Socialist Group prioritizes in this beginning of legislation: the truth is, in two plenarys, there are four PNLs, two proposals in Galicia requiring the creation of the same committees as its own veto party in Madrid and now an initiative to share medals. Because it's not true that this is an initiative on Meirás, there is no proposal for executable action or impulse action. No, no, it's just an initiative for misdistributing medals. And I say "bad sharing" because, ladies and gentlemen, there are two recognitions here, a general recognition and a special recognition. The general recognition is for collectives, historians, Council of Sada, Deputy of the Crown and Council of Galicia; and the special recognition for the General Directorate of Historical Memory of the Government of Spain, which, by the way, doesn't even mint the State Counsel. Home!, let's be honest, the initiative is focused on recognizing the work of the government of Sánchez in the recovery of Meirás towers. Basically what Mr. Aranguena came here is doing Mr. Sánchez's ball. And I think it's okay, but, man, I ask the militants of the Socialist Party to do their ball to their boss by the traditional methods: bring him here, take him around and invite him to a marinate, etc., but using Parliament to do this gives him a little bit of shame. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In return, Mr. Bará what he intends is to change the medal and the fattest medal is given to the Deputy of the Crown. Look, I think Greek socialism seems to be committed to converting incoherence into its identity sign. They're able to defend one thing and the opposite is that they're within 600 kilometers or a few days away. They call for the follow-up of the pandemic in Parliament, in the Galician Parliament, because, of course, in Madrid a few days earlier, 600 kilometers earlier, they veto it. They ask for an investigation into residences that exist in Galicia, but in Madrid Vetana. Now bring us discussions on issues related to recognition and titles. Twenty days ago: "We have had a lot of doubts that at the moment we are, in the greatest pandemic of our lives, which will involve extremely negative economic and social effects, with a fall in GDP as you don't remember since the Civil War, with tens of thousands of deaths from the pandemic, we should distract our political efforts and energies with the proposal to withdraw a title" — end of the quote, Mr. Aranguena Fernández. Twenty days ago, I agreed with his arguments to reject this BNG initiative, which we considered to be not a priority. And with those same arguments, yours, Mr. Arangüena: "In the meantime, we are sure to be grateful that we focus on those issues, such as the problems of education, health, economics, and others such as generalized environmental collapse, even in institutional quality problems. Let us leave this moment of titles, let us focus on the subjects in which we are playing our survival as a society" — end of the quote, Mr Aranguena Fernández. Mr Arunguena, I must confess that for the first time — and I say it completely seriously — for the first time since I am a Member of Parliament, I feel certain distress when I knew I had an obligation to debate an initiative like this, so far from the interests of citizens at this moment, sincerely. I mean, we are, as you have said, living the pandemic of our lives and you bring an initiative to Parliament to do the ball to the President of the Government. It seems frankly regrettable, and I have to tell you. But since we have to do this and they force us to debate this, at least I ask you to be fair in the distribution of merits. I sincerely believe that the Government of Spain has had no more merit in this achievement than the Council of Sada, than the Council of the Crown or the Council of Galicia, and I sincerely believe that all these institutions have failed to fulfil their duties, with their obligations within the framework of their respective responsibilities. I think that's what these administrations do. And, of course, I don't think the Government of Spain had any greater merit, especially if we compare it to associations and historians who have been looking for documentation and ways to recover Meirás in a completely altruistic way. I think it's fair to recognize this. And that's why we tabled an amendment, a amendment that equally recognizes the collaboration of all of them and specifically highlights the differential fact that allowed the restoration of the Meirás towers to enjoy all the Greeks, if that sentence is confirmed — that we all hope so — is confirmed. That was the loyal collaboration of all in the current rule of law, because, Mr. Bará, the regime of the 78 that replaced and put an end to the dictatorship is what enabled the recovery of the spoils. There's no conceptiveness; on the contrary, it's what made it possible. Mrs. Rodil is very nervous. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't know why, I don't know why. [[Murmurs.]] Look, it seemed to us that this sentence would have to be useful for us to learn certain lessons and to prevent us from becoming unnecessary divisions in the future — it seems that not everyone has learned it — and also legal shortcuts that only those who led in the past have been to increase the frustration of society. By the way, Mr Bará, when you say that the Union has voted against — excuse me, the People's Parliamentary Group, you are right — to make a list of spoils or to study the ways to recover the heritage of the Franco family, you lack the truth. Yes, I was in that debate. And you remember that I presented you with an amendment. What that amendment said is that we agreed, but that work had to be done by those with the competences, which, as it has been shown, is the Government of Spain. And when the Government of Spain acted under its powers, it proved that the People's Party was right and that there were legal and democratic ways to recover spoilt wealth for the enjoyment of all the Greeks. Don't lie to the Greeks, please don't lie to the Greeks. Look, I want to tell you something, too, because you've tabled an amendment calling for mechanisms to be activated to prevent the Franco Foundation from continuing to manage the court visits. Against what you have expressed here, I want to make it very clear: the Franco Foundation doesn't like anything at all, nothing!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u76	Silence! Mr. Bará!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u77	We give him a grant because in the states of law who meet the requirements, he has to give him a grant. And by the way, he also missed the truth when he said we gave him that subsidy while we eliminated the grant from the "Names and Voices" project. It's not true, it's continued to be financed while it allowed us the economy, which has left you so well-fed in those four years of high government, that of the Bipartite of which they so boast. But this is going to slide certain sympathies... I want to remind all the groups that are here in this House that the Franco Foundation has been operating in Spain for decades. In fourteen years of the socialist government of Mr. González, the Franco Foundation was operating, but nobody questions the democratic silence of Mr. González, right? Then came Mr. Aznar, which is a facade, is a facade, of course, and that's why he continued to operate on the Franco Foundation. Curiously later came eight years of rule by Mr. Zapatero, and again continued to operate the Franco Foundation. By the way, by the way, for five years the Government of Zapatero has brought forward the budgets conditioned by the Nationalist Block of Galicia. Home! If this was a democratic priority, you'll have to ask yourself why they didn't act at that time. But, of course, what is not to be received is that the twenty-two years in which the Franco Foundation worked with socialist governments are a democratic example and that ultimately we have the blame that we rule eight years. That's right, those are by convivence. Or all tyrants or all Trojans, right? We're gonna be a little serious, we're gonna be a little fair. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u78	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u79	I present to you an amendment — I believe a reasonable amendment — which makes a recognition of all the institutions that have participated in this historic achievement — that we hope it will be consolidated — of all associations, of all individuals, of different administrations, and that puts the focus — I repeat again — essentially, in the essential that it has been believed, that it is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u80	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u81	...that, when we all go hand in hand, things can be achieved. Thank you very much, and I hope you tell me something about this amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u82	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Arangéna Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, you spoke after me, by the other speakers, of hanging medals. Well, I don't intend to put medals on anyone, I present, we present, a motion, a proposal for recognition of a historical fact. But what I did was to constantly or basically appeal to the very literality of the sentence; i.e., I'm not here placing medals that do not explicitly appear in the sentence itself. And a sentence is not a set of opinions. In that sense, I have to tell you, Mr Bará, that when he says that the sentence makes a statement of interest because he's practically accusing a judge of prevarication. The sentence makes an objective statement, because that's what the sentence has to do. Thanks to the fact that the sentence makes an objective statement, it's a big sentence. And thanks to the fact that there is a demand from the state lawyer behind it, the fruit of a great legal work, it is possible to recover the palace of Meiraes. But if we say that the sentence makes an interested account, we're undermining the legitimacy of that sentence, the judge who says it and everything we're doing here. By the way, you on this subject are substantially in agreement with us. So, I think it's an improbable statement. We were asked what we did all this time. Well, I was saying that already in the year 78 -- it was forty-two years ago -- because we stood in favour of the recovery of the palace of Meirás. But what did we do? So to put state's lawyer looking for papers, find those papers diving into the Coruña's notary protocol archive and present a very well-founded demand -- I would say brilliant -- based on those documents and evidence. Because the trials are won with documents and evidence, they're not won with photos, demonstrations, or occupations. Certainly, I recognize it, we don't incorporate into our recognition all the people who have done research, but I recognize, by the way, the author of that book, I recognize the work, I recognize all the work of that historian, many others — some less — and many people who have become wet about it. [[Applause]] But what needs to be recognized is also the political will that a socialist government has had to push this issue, to get this issue forward, as no other government would do. That must be recognized and valued. [[Applause]] But we don't do it in a very prominent way either, we just say that we especially recognize the government that was the promoter of that demand. Mr. Paz, I didn't disqualify anyone, I think. Neither does Fraga. I mean, I'm just talking about historical facts, those things you don't like, but they're the historical facts. I mean, Fraga has the trajectory she has, but I don't say anything negative about Fraga. I'm not saying anything negative about your predecessors either. While in 79 we were calling for the recovery of the peace of Meirás — even if it became the seat of the self-government — you, your political ancestors, were discussing the autonomous state, discussing the very foundations of democracy. And then, of course, Fraga was president of the Galician Union. An example of agreement was that everyone accepted a Franco minister playing in democracy, even if he arrived at the President of the Galician Union and founded his party. I didn't disqualify anyone at all. I think if I disqualified someone, they'll tell me at some point. And it's not incompatible, unless it's one of those beings who are only able to do one thing -- women say they're able to do many things -- it's not incompatible to recognize historical work... and they're able to do many, even say they're able to do more than us. [[Murmurs.]] [[Strong murmurers.]] But what I mean is that it is not incompatible to recognize the historical work of society, institutions and public and private people to allow a historical fact such as this judgment, which enables the recovery of the palace of Meirás, with concern for wet issues, which are at the moment education, health, the economy and so many others. Which is not incompatible with what I say is not the time to remove the theme from the head of state. This is as simple as that. If you don't understand, I have to explain. By the way, who supports Galician economy today? The government of the state with the ERTE, with the help of the autonomous, etc., etc., not you. So, of course, it's not... What kind of a joke, what a joke?Oh, my God! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Strong murmurers.]] You take out the ERTE, you take out the help of the autonomous, the Greek economy, and you'll see what happens! Tell your advisors who know something about economics. Does it bother you to recover the Peace of Meirás?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u84	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u85	Does the story bother you? We have simply made a proposal based on reality and on what declares proved the judgment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u86	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u87	...we don't make ratings. From there, if you want, you support her; otherwise, you don't. By the way, we will accept the BNG proposal, the BNG amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Aranguena. [[Mr. Bará Torres asks for the word.]] Mr. Bará, why do you want to use the word?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u89	I request it in the light of Article 76, for allusions involving judgments of value or inaccuracies about the person or conduct of a Member. Because Mr. Paz said he had missed the truth.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u90	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, you have the right to ask for the word. And then I have to give it to her.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u91	He just said he missed the truth.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u92	I'm sorry, you told me what it was for. And I say to him — I want to answer his request — there was no trial of courage. You're in the debate yourself, you spoke in the debate itself. And I think it's sufficiently clear what the... [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Bará, the plenary could last seven days if we started saying... you have the right to ask for it, and you have the right to decide if you have the right to speak in those terms is to me, it is to the presidency right now. [[Strong murmurers.]] And, therefore, I don't give him the floor. [[Mr. Bará Torres utters words that are not perceived.]] Let's move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u93	Yeah, yeah. I think you and I have known each other for a long time and know how we function. Thank you very much, Mr Bará. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u94	Let's turn to the votes. We can't close the doors but no one gets in now. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Leticia Gallego Sanromán and D. Martín Seco García, on the search for the Government of Galicia for a broad agreement with the tourism sector in order to establish a shock plan to save tourism. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u95	We are voting on the next initiative, of the 5.2 Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block in Wales. I understand that the amendments were not accepted and therefore we voted on the initiative as presented. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantinos and two other Members, on the constitution in the Galician Parliament of a presentation to draw up a proposal for the negotiation of the distribution of European funds to address the consequences of the Covid-19, for its defence by the Galician Council in front of the Central Government through bilateral negotiations. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 18; votes against, 38; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. This initiative is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u96	We move on to the next initiative, 5.3 of the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia. No amendments were tabled. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. At the initiative of Mr José Alberto Pazos Couñago and seven other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Galicia to the Central Government and the European Commission in relation to the impact on the Galician fishing fleet of the decision to insert the deep-rooted marrax in Appendix 2 to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, Cites. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 70. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u97	We move on to the next, the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr. Jose Luís Bará Torres and two more. There's a transaction that made me come in and I understand that all groups are in favor. So you don't have to read it. Then we vote for the transaction. Voting on the proposed non-law of the G.P of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Wales in order to recover for the public heritage the sculptures of Master Mateo, in the possession of the Franco family, belonging to the Town Hall of Santiago de Compostela. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 70. The voting is positive. The text of this non-law proposal is therefore adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u98	We move on to the next G.P. initiative. People of Galicia. The amendments were not accepted and we therefore voted on the initiative as presented. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Diego Calvo Pouso and seven other Members, on the demand to be made by the Greek Government to the Central Government in order to include disinfectant masks and hydrogels in the list of goods to which the reduced type of VAT is applied by 10% or the over-reduced of 4% The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 56; abstentions, 14. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u99	We move on to the next G.P. initiative. of the Galician Socialists. I understood that the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group was accepted. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago asks for the floor.]] Yes, why do you want to use the word? Give a voice to Mr. Pazos' chair, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u100	Yes, we would like to request a separate vote from the original proposal and the accepted amendment to the Galician Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u101	You decide, Mr. Aranguena. Don't you? [[Mr. Arangüena Fernández pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Okay, all right. So we voted for the initiative with the incorporation of the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block Group. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr Pablo Arangéna Fernández and two other Members, on the position of the Galician Parliament in relation to the dedication and effort of all persons, entities and institutions who made possible the recovery for the public heritage of the palace of Meirás The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected. Accumulation of two interpellations for their joint formulation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u102	After the vote, we turn to the next item on the agenda, the agenda for interpellation, and the first is an inclusive debate of 6.1 and 6.3, which accumulates for debate in accordance with Article 159 of the Rules of Procedure. Interpellation by D. Luís Manuel Álvarez Martínez, G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the consideration of the Government of Galicia regarding whether the draft protocol of adaptation to the context of the covid-19 in the non-university education centres of Galicia for the course 2020-2021 responds to the needs of the centres, as well as on the problems identified in the implementation of this protocol at the beginning of the course Interpellation by Manuel Antonio Lourenzo Sobral, from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the policy of the Government of Galicia in relation to the impact of covid-19 on education
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u103	Mr. Álvarez Martínez has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. I hope that this question will be the popular party's approval, given that the previous non-law proposal was not relevant or interesting to the Autonomous Community of Galicia. I say that I hope it will be interesting because we are talking about a matter that concerns the entire educational community and therefore a wide range of the population of our autonomous community. Mr. Counsellor, after his synthetic nothing, but if redundant, yesterday's appearance, you might think it's all explained, but in fact it's not, because we're obviously talking about the protocol that gave rise to the formulation of this interpellation, which was introduced on August 14th, i.e. more than a month and a half ago, but that it was presented three days after the autonomous elections took place, not at night, but with a certain alleviation at least political, and which gave rise first to protests by all the actors involved in education—reading parents and mothers, trade union organizations and municipalities—and also a request that the management teams of the centres submit their resignation. Because we all know that education is a right that is recognized as fundamental in our Constitution, in Article 27, but we also know that it is full competence of the Council of Education of the Government of Galicia, in accordance with Article 31 of our Statute of Self-Government, its administration. And we also know that the situation arising from the pandemic produced by the coward-19 assumed that the Welsh education system, like that of the rest of the state and the world, was plunged into an unpublished situation as a result of what was a relevant, necessary and obliged closure of educational institutions. And although distance education, with unprecedented effort by the teacher, students and families, has served to cope with an exceptional situation, this scenario does not replace face learning, since it is in the school environment that school interaction with teachers and students that best allows learning and socialization and their development. And we also know all of us here that this suspension of educational activity has caused a greater impact on students belonging to families in the most disadvantaged socio-economic situation. All of this makes it necessary to resume the presence activity, by taking all necessary preventive measures to enable it to do so safely and to maintain control of the pandemic. But it is absolutely necessary to underline at this time that educational competences remained intact in the hands of autonomous communities during those months of pandemic and that the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training has developed its own. Thus, it is clear that it has stimulated cooperation and collaboration between educational administrations and has taken the initiative to promote agreements, and by convening, up to twenty times over the five months that this situation lasted, the interterritorial cooperation bodies, as it was also said, with the priority of the recovery of educational normality, the present education as a general principle and that the student returns to classes. We are fully aware of the difficulties that distance teaching entails for an important percentage of the student, which could not follow equally during confinement the process of teaching and learning, and that situation did not start with that apocalyptic date of August 27, to which you made an insistent reference in yesterday's appearance. And it is true that the development of the 2020-2021 course is unpredictable, given the ignorance that we still have about the possible evolution of the pandemic, and therefore it is essential to provide for different scenarios to which we must adapt, depending on the health circumstances that can be given, and all that forecast should or should be formulated in a protocol for teaching centres that regulates the development of their activity, both academic and complementary services. Using the data you gave yesterday, about 350,000 students, 77,000 commensals and 87,000 transported students are figures that well deserve every effort to minimize the risks. We know that zero risk doesn't exist, or we're going to sue because it doesn't exist. But the Socialist Party of Galicia is a party of government and therefore we are not relieved of the enormous difficulty that must be faced by an administration to develop a protocol that necessarily has the capacity to adapt necessary to the various and hypothetical realities that can occur, starting — as not! — from the premises of ensuring the safety and health of the employee and the student, as well as the maximum family and work reconciliation. And in this regard, Counsellor, we will always be prepared to support the actions taken by the Government of Galicia, which is the result of the necessary dialogue and consensus among all sectors of the educational community. But, unfortunately, we haven't found ourselves on that stage, or with the draft protocol that you presented in July or with those that have been presented lately, that we have the third version. And this was because the Government of Galicia, which had to face more than ever its responsibility for government, what made it initially centred its responsibilities towards centres, ANPAs and municipalities, without providing them with a stable, safe framework and with the human and material resources needed, also for all complementary services, including school dining and transport. And the situation of rejection can be summed up in a very synthetic way in which the teachers' representatives asked to withdraw the protocol and negotiate a new one that met the demands of the educational community as a whole, which by the representatives of the parents and mothers of students regretted that there was no representation of them in the hideout commission of the centers, while they warned of the difficulties in serving school lunchers. In fact, so much so we have news that they're closing direct management dining rooms, or at least direct management shifts, because there's not enough staff collaborator, and this is a service that depends directly on the board. Nor can it be said that the matter of the eaters managed by the ANPA was peaceful, but you ended up assuming it, because their demands were fair, which proves that something was originally ill-designed. [[Applause]] And finally, since Fegamp — the last time yesterday — has moved to the need for additional resources that are beyond the possibility of taking the measures envisaged, because they are subject to significant burdens and resulting costs in the area of cleaning and disinfection. And even there are doubts on the part of municipal intervention services that the authorization of expenditure to comply with these provisions has sufficient legal support. And there are ways and ways to make public policies. One of them is to assign responsibilities and not properly finance those who are given those responsibilities, i.e. to solve the problems by translation and the right cost. And others, for example — and I know they won't like it much —, as was done during the wicked two-party government, of, by means of a local pact, financing certain costs that have come up with the municipalities, such as gas oil costs in children's and primary education centres. [[Applause]] That's what it's like to bet on by an administration that's added to competences but that's funded. I repeat: zero cost is always very welcome and very comfortable at matching public accounts. And, of course, the protocols we have today, more than two months after the introduction of the initial protocol, contain obvious additions and improvements, the result of the dialogue, which was abandoned in July, but still, we continue going late, we incorporate new nuances or protocols with the course already started. The fact that on September 24th -- that is, two weeks ago -- new protocols have been presented as evidence. And we share that all protocols are dynamic documents and that must obviously incorporate the approaches of health experts, but also other areas that can make interesting proposals and enrich those protocols. Counsellor, you made a few statements recently, after a visit to a vocational training centre, in which you were pleased with the measures they had taken to ensure the teaching of practices in specific workshops, but, for example, they did not take into account contributions that have been published since the Association of Vocational Training Centres in July for safe workshops. We're talking about recommendations made by an association made up of vocational training centres across Spain, but also Galicia. And I don't want to make any particular insistence on this matter, but you just got acquainted, like all public opinion, with a case that affected a center where it seems that the students were in a Korean theory, because there was theoretically a warning that was so decreed...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u105	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u106	...—Finished, Mr President—but the students were attending the class normally. So, Counsellor, the question or questions are obvious: will you expand the protocols by incorporating the experience that may already be provided by management teams, parents and mothers or other associations linked to the educational world? And what problems have you detected in the application of the various protocols published since the beginning of the course? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. Lourenzo Sobral has the floor for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u108	President, ladies and gentlemen, Counsellor. I pondered these days and a little on yesterday, during his intervention — which time has given us — about a situation that is given to us about what is just in these moments of major historical difficulties when it is usually used to give in societies a paradox. It's a historic paradox that it's right at that time — in these moments as we are suffering — because it usually gets the best out of the values of a society, the best of the values of vocation, the best of services, the best of solidarity. But sadly it is also at this time — we think — when we are used to showing ourselves also those most negative aspects: individualism, evasia, lack of project... I think that somehow what we live in all this time, and particularly at the beginning of the course, reflects somehow this drawing that I just did. Because, on the one hand — and so on — we move the educational community, we find — or so we perceive, of course — an educational community that has been in the vanguard of the struggle against the coward, which has given an example of seriousness, commitment and responsibility, but that we have sadly also found a Union of Galicia that we believe has not been up to, a Union of Galicia more concerned about bandages and propaganda. And I think, Counselor, that after your intervention yesterday we should reflect. Think about it because we think we don't find any self-criticism, nothing to listen to. And believe me that this is fundamental, because if we've really heard the educational community and we didn't have an attitude filled with pride and marked by that electoral ecstasy that they keep showing day after day, I think another would be the situation of the educational community. Look to what extent I think that, if I had done so, it wouldn't even be you, Counselor, the person we'd be questioning on today. So, I think that what we're dealing with right now is not so much about setting up what the mistakes were, but I think that, at this point, what we're required is that we try to reach meeting points, convergences that allow us to implement the necessary solutions by the educational community. I think that yesterday in some way you showed a principle of agreement — an advance, if you want — and there was improvisation at the beginning of the course. And I think he highlighted it because much of his speech has been meant to establish a kind of dialectical engineering to throw balloons out and with a premise that in our trial it is absolutely false and besides that it is easily detachable. And the premise is the following, which I will try — I insist — to reach some agreement with a simple question, Counsellor: did you establish WHO and the ministry on June 22 a 1 metre distance between desks, so 1 meter and a half between students? yes or no? Is this an objective fact, yes or no? Did you know these WHO measures and the Ministry's own recommendations? Because if they didn't know them, they didn't know them, but if they knew them and didn't apply them, much worse, because I think they were the trigger of the unprecedented chaos that we lived at the beginning of the course. And, therefore, Counselor, I think there has been something here that must answer. What prevented this board from exercising its powers to establish the ratios they were recommending both the health agencies and the security distances they were implementing, that it was done in other communities and that it was done in private, because it was strict competence of the council? But I'm telling you more: I believe — and you know perfectly well — that the board also held this debate about the hiring of teachers, you know they had it with the former team of the council. And what was the attitude of the president of the Union? Cease fulminously the discordant voices, recognizing, on the one hand, the chaos and improvisation that came to take place at the beginning of the course and, on the other hand, also charting the lines of what the attitude of the Greek Government was to be in this course that he was beginning. But, therefore, I think it's also necessary to put some of the doubts that are at the heart of the protocol and that I think we should try to get to approximations as soon as at least we can talk about what is objective. Are you, Counselor, the professors of the Arc program hired half a day, yes or no? Because if they're hired half a day — and you know they are, and you're giving those figures — they're doubling the number of teachers, yes, of course!; if you impose two teachers on half a day, it's the equivalent of a teacher on a full day. So that's what we're talking about when they're implementing data with an average-day teacher. And much more: if you read reports from the General Technical Secretariat of the Ministry, you know that this Arc teacher has a specific fund and it's going to be hardly computable in the Covid Fund. But if I think there's one aspect that deserves special attention, because it has immediate consequences, Counselor, and it must be resolved immediately, it's the question of semi-presensitivity. It is amazing, because you denied us, on the one hand, improvisation with regard to these measures, but, immediately afterwards, they told us that on 9 September they implement semi-presentiality; we have students of 2nd baccalaureate with semi-presence, but now they're going to change and they're trying to remove that semi-presence. If that's not improvisation, Counselor, tell us what improvisation is. [[Applause]] But I think there's something you should explain, and you shouldn't explain it to us. You must explain to the students of these colleges why there are pupils and students who can study for selectivity, for ABAU, in a semi-presence and why others do not. You have to explain why there are children and children who have done their best for years to achieve the best result in ABAU tests in order to be able to access the career they dream of and cannot have a present education and there are others who while they are in private education if they can have them and while they are in other autonomous communities with whom they will compete to access those careers if they will be able to have that presence education. I teach distance. Mr Counsellor — and I believe that it is also imperative that we reach some kind of conclusion, at least I am no longer agreeing, but if I do to some conclusion in this respect, do we have a protocol, a minimum procedure that clearly specifies what is going to be the development of classes in distance education? What are the schedules going to be, if they're going to have telematic classes, if they're going to have curriculum, how will they develop? Or are we going to drop the student again, like in the past few months? Protocol plan and special educational needs. Counselor, it's just that, look, it's done that it's not about doing that exercise you did yesterday with that ad mano question asking me whether I was in an educational center or not; I think it was out of place. But you presented this protocol on September 23rd, with the school course already started. What about those students who had those needs and had no protocol? Neither was this improvisation, Counselor? Didn't this have any bandages either? [[Applause]] And a protocol that I believe that for many teachers it must be compulsory to study the values of impersonality of itself: it will be done, it will be washed, it will be cleaned, it will be disinfected... but the question is clear: who, counsellor, if they don't equip the staff centres to carry those functions forward? [[Applause]] So, Counsellor, there are issues that I have no doubt that will lead to many difficulties; financial difficulties, which certainly cause economic tensions in the face of such a situation, of course, but I think they deserve an answer from this council, from this government. It's over. I listened carefully, and in addition with a great deal of intellectual respect, Mr. Puy in his first intervention in this plenary -- I hope that I will not be accommodated in article 76 -- when he was talking about Max Weber's theses for the purpose of ethics, conviction and ethics of responsibility. I just want to tell the Education Council to take that glove, because I think it's times of maximum responsibility. We know what the People's Party's convictions with regard to education and public education in particular are. And believe me that we're in the antipoids...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u109	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u110	...—Finished, President—of those convictions. But I also believe that these are times when the educational community demands to be up to it, and being up to it means at least being able to admit mistakes, reaching agreements on issues that I believe — in my judgment — that are absolutely objective.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u111	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u112	And that we must be aware of responsibility, because the educational community needs us and because we must be, because necessity is more imperative than ever. Thank you and I'm sorry, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The Councillor for Culture, Education and University, Mr. Rodríguez González, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u114	Good morning, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to begin this cumulative interpellation of the Socialist Group and the BNG Group because I thank them for their willingness in the past to be able to delay this current plenary inquiry by a situation they all know and which obviously prevented me from coming here personally to it. Having said this, after the very long and intense appearance of yesterday, in which I think we invested a lot of time, a productive time to explain and to clarify clearly how it has been and it was the beginning of course, I could almost start my intervention now saying this about "we said yesterday," because many of the issues we talked about yesterday. I think the most important thing is that, regardless of the practically apocalyptic speeches that have just been put forward at the moment, because there was a start of the course with a great normality, fortunately with a great normality for the whole educational community; obviously, a course we all know that appears clearly conditioned in this case by the health situation. Yesterday we even said that we had to make very quick, very shocking decisions, which made it possible to put this course into operation in a rather orderly and extremely normal way. It has been and remains a challenge of country, a challenge in which we are all and we must be committed, without any doubt. I think we're doing it reasonably well. In fact, I just arrived from the inauguration of the FP course with Queen Letizia and the Minister of Education himself, who, obviously, proposed a good functioning of the Greek education system, of the education system in general. And I think yesterday we also looked at the comparative data on the safety parameter that we have in the Greek education system, which are frankly favorable and that are frankly positive, and of which we must be proud and we must recognise this great work for the whole educational community. I would like — as I did yesterday — to convey a double message: a message of tranquillity — they are calm, spokesmen, that the thing is going well — and also of confidence, confidence in the country and confidence in the education system; but also a message of great importance, of responsibility and commitment. Look, we've heard about improvisation, bandages, lack of foresight today... I said it yesterday in this House, when I had the chance to return to this responsibility just a month ago: there was a very good job done. Measures had to continue and a series of measures had to be adapted and a number of measures changed. Galicia has at no time ceased to exercise its powers, just as neither has the State; it has exercised its powers. And don't confuse what is institutional respect and what is the constitutional and statutory framework, don't confuse it with supposed lust, nothing further than reality. Look, fundamental proposals were made from Galicia, which were later copied, by the state as a whole. The use of compulsory masks for students over 6 years of age. This did Galicia. Like other ventilation-related measures were provided by Galicia. And all the decisions taken in the area of security within the autonomous community, first, are based on the recommendations of organizations as respectful and as respectable as the World Health Organization and have the health support in this case of the clinical committee. And of course, the reasoning of the spokesman for the Nationalist Block Galego is that we are part of a world that begins on September 1st. So we see the world with a biased veil, which makes it impossible to see it later, and, not seeing it again, obviously, in an interesting, political and partisan way, obviously — and I recognize it has to be so — the key to the vault that I have subjected to the whole series of changes that had to be implemented after 27 August. Because, ladies and gentlemen, you did as in primary and as a child the work done since the end of the academic course and during the summer of summer by the educational centers, by the directors, didn't have any problem. It worked, it worked well. Man, of course he had problems, obviously he had problems. How could he have no problems? To deny that there are problems is obvious, Mr. Spokesman, but it has been done with absolute normality. Simply — of course — from 27 August onwards, the insertion into the entire teaching organisation of this 1.5-meter parameter is at the heart of everything. And what you say is an improvisation, I'd say it's the reverse. It's an adaptation capacity and it's a reaction capacity to a situation that greatly complicates the teaching organization of secondary schools. Of course, you do an exercise here, the Block spokesman makes us here an exercise of half a meter is from the center of the chair to the corner of the table, etc., etc. Man, you'll have to take the subway and go to class to see if from the center of the chair to the corner of the chair there'll be half a metre, but the World Health Organization's recommendation is one metre, one metre, and here it's reinforced with the mask. Well, your approach we understand that it is based on a falsehood and it is deliberately and obviously interested in a data, and it will have to be measured, you'll have to be measuring, as you say, whether there's that half a meter on the other side or whether the World Health Organization says something else. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In any case, I think that at this point no doubt exists, that there existed at the end of June an important work of the council. No one can deny that there was a protocol of July principles, which certainly transferred the agreements of the Sector Conference, and fixed a meter with a mask. It's just that denying it is a very difficult thing to keep. And it's also very difficult to deny or not to bear in mind the meeting of the 27 August Sectoral Conference which is totally contrary to this. We were told by the spokesman for the Socialist Party that we were trying to transfer the full responsibility of the course start at ESO, in secondary school, on 27 August. On a significant part if, absolutely yes, there's no doubt about it. When we talk about semi-presence or we talk about mamparas, if there wasn't that measure, which came the last hour, proposed by the Ministry of Education, there would be no need to implement these measures, and educational centres that already had the hours done would not have to upset them. And that's because I don't know whether he volunteered or unintentionally didn't take time in the Spanish Government to meet before August 27. That's really to get him to study. After this date, Galicia was the first autonomous community that transferred this protocol to educational centers, through the approval on 31 August of the translation of this protocol from 27 to educational centers. Dialogue. Yesterday we made a storyteller - there were no elections again - of the very intense work that there was dialogue in the last month. And of course, Mr. Álvarez, you tell us, he's trying to say that the increase in the economic contribution to face up to the task of cleaning primary centers that are claiming the municipalities must pay it to Junta, because Junta is the one who placed that responsibility on them, who put that new task to them. He said it here. But it's not true who put it in the ministry. Whoever proposed the hygienic-sanitary measures was the ministry. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Which I obviously think that data falls on its own. In any case, I think they should do some self-criticism, spokesmen, and think that many of the reproach they've made here, that they make to the self-government, they should address them to the central government, supported by you. Look, it's very clear that there was institutional loyalty here, that the pace of decisions came marked by sectoral conferences. It's clearly believed. And it gives the feeling, as I said earlier, that waiting for that August 27th meeting to set the frameworks for secondary education, bachelor's degree and vocational training was at least an attitude — being mild — not responsible. And we also said yesterday: I think the words of Vice President Churches were clearly defining what we can do. It is true that we were not comfortable in organizing the course; it is true that the change that took place at the end of August upset the planning and organization work done of course in Galicia, but in the vast majority of the institutes; it is true that, despite everything, we were still able to start a course in a way I will hardly say normal, but with a huge normality within the great exceptionality and the need to adapt to the situation in which we live. We have already said it and we all say it — and I thank you for being aware — that zero risk doesn't exist, it's obvious; this is where four hundred thousand pass, with the university nearly half a million pass every day, they enter and leave the educational centers; we must continue to monitor, watch out and not launch false alarms. Well, he's done and he's done with his skills. We have a general protocol, which is a living document, which transfers mandates in this case from the ministerial, educational and health fields. We also have within this protocol, adaptation plans, contingency plans. We made two specific protocols: that of school dining, negotiated, agreed with the collectives, and that of special educational needs, also agreed with the collectives. I think that's fundamental. We continue to work, we continue to work on these protocols, we have direct advice in this area of the education committee. We're working on recreation, for example, and no one in Spain has regulated it. We shouldn't be so bad, should we? If no one in Spain has regulated it and we're the first ones, we won't be so bad, even though you'll try to say no. Yes, indeed, it seems reasonable to us. But that's also a consequence of another question that comes from the metro and half, especially in urban educational centers, with few physical spaces, historical centers, etc., where regulation and internal organization with the unfolding complicates schedules and, in some ways, leads to the need and need spaces to locate students at the time of recreation. You can't do that in those centers. So we have to find a solution. We were the first to face it, I think it's not so bad either, we're not so messy if we're the first to do it, just as we were the first to do the post-27th August protocol. I believe that if you are doing a solvent job, you are talking about extra-school activities. Many counties of the Socialist Party and many of the Nationalist Block councils are firmly refusing to do so. There's a lot of conciliation here and they literally refuse to do extra-school activities. We're going to put on a protocol, obviously evaluated at your own time, endorsed by the health authorities, so you can do it if you want. With which, man, I think we shouldn't be doing so bad. The easy thing is to say: don't make it. All right, I bet on conciliation not doing any extra-school activity and not making it easier or possible anything in this area. As in the field of vocational training or special schemes. Finally, the course is being developed with great normality. I want to deliver a message of tranquillity. It is acting with diligence and, opposition gentlemen, we are strengthening — let us say yesterday — the equipment and the computer equipment for the teacher. Where do you see me denying that Proa teachers are Proa teachers? Nowhere. It's just incredible that they're trying to twist an argument to try to reduce the positive impact...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u115	You have to go through with it, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u116	...of the recruitment of teachers in the education system. We're also going to work and we're working on cleaning and dining, we're going to strengthen cleaning staff, dining staff.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u117	You have to finish, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u118	The next week we're also going to have a document that allows us to incorporate people into the field of caregivers and in the field of collaborators, who you know that the decree only poses people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u119	You have to finish, Counselor, then you have a shift, okay?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u120	... yes, I end in a second—which has to do with a direct degree. And, finally, I think that at the end of the day, we are working on -- educational administration, educational centres and teachers -- with a great sense of purpose and I think that we are doing things reasonably well in general. Because it's very easy to criticize, but where you rule, whether it's Town Councils, Deputies or whether you're autonomous communities, you also have to go from time to time to look there, look at the mirror and from there, as this famous television commercial said, if you find something better, you have to do it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u121	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the replica round, Mr. Álvarez Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u122	Thank you, Madam President. Counselor, "We were saying yesterday." I don't know if you've been since yesterday until today in some sort of confined exile fulfilling some kind of penalty; if so, I think I'm sorry. Look, you said yesterday that the necessary adaptation of the protocols was due to the need for face-to-face education, to cope with the forecast of outbreaks, to adaptability and flexibility based on health developments, to coordination with the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training and Health and to the generalization of health measures. And we think it's right, we think it's a proper analysis. He also said yesterday that they were going to publish new protocols, and he just referred to them again. One, about recreation. It will be the first autonomous community to regulate recreation. And I ask, aren't there any recreationals at this time? Do you have the student punished without recreation? Because they will be going to recreation and, therefore, they are without a specific regulation that seems necessary, because you decide that they will make a protocol, the first one in the state, which will surely serve which beacon of Alexandria to give birth to the rest of the autonomous communities. [[Applause]] It speaks of a protocol of extra-school activities, a sloping round that in the municipalities where the Nationalist Block Galego and the Socialist Party governs there are no extra-school activities. Hey, can you guarantee in this parliament that in the councils where the People's Party governs them there? If there are, how are they doing? They lack protocol — I suppose —. If necessary, I'll say again: they're also doing something at least unwise. And you're talking about a new protocol for the development of vocational training and special regime teaching. And I wonder — and I am referring to the previous questions — that we are not doing practice right now in vocational training, because, if so, we have a serious problem. Sure, what's the problem? The general protocol, version 3 of the protocol, contains a scrutinised paragraph on vocational training practices, and therefore it would seem necessary to have moved forward as these practices will be done, because, as it is said, it is a context that must necessarily be entirely similar to the work environment. So if they're doing it, maybe you should have acted before. But you said, within that general trend, that we made apocalyptic speeches. I, frankly, with regard to myself — Mr. Lourenzo later will talk about what he did — I made a proactive speech. I referred — and you know — to the complexity of organizing this school course and I made proposals. And I made proposals that may not have been clear. I'm deeply sorry for my low teaching ability. I hope, for the sake of my exhalations, that something has survived and that I have not always had it so bad, but I think I have told you about two clear proposals: the recommendations that you might have taken into account to regulate practices in vocational training, and, Counsellor, I think it is obvious that this coordination between your board and the Health Council needs to be improved. That Eduvid program, which is necessary — of course — is, as you can see, some errors are going on, because, as I told you before, if there was a theoretically confined unit, and it turns out that the students were attending the class, it's that something didn't work out, it's that nothing worked; and, therefore, it's wrong. And the vault key, of course, is the August 27 meeting, but look, not everything is a metric problem, the problem was already before, it was already with the initial protocol. Because other communities did and they already had the organization closed. And, therefore, if other communities have done so, this is what from the point of view of logical reasoning is called a counterexample. I mean, I'm showing you that what you're saying is fake because others have. So you don't figure out the impossibility of carrying out the development of the protocols at that meeting and at that change of criteria. With regard to payments to the municipalities, the additional aid — which I know will not be done, but we will continue to ask for it — said Mr Feijó yesterday at that meeting with the Fegamp, but says it is a burden imposed by the Central Government. Caramba!, also imposed by the central government teaching in general, because it is state legislation the educational system.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u123	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u124	Finished, Madam President. [[Applause]] The matter seems to me serious enough not to make too many jokes with him. And you said, we weren't comfortable with the start of the course. Counselor, what do you think? That the mothers, the parents and the professor were lying in hammocks? No, no, no, no. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u125	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u126	President. Counselor, of course, surprising, almost a delight that you initiate your intervention by quoting Fray Luis de León. I just want to tell you that, based on that apocalypse that we beg, don't do it, don't give us the same luck as him and don't send us, at least metaphorically, the Inquisition. So first, we wanted to say this metaphorically — I insist. That's why we were beyond the Song of Songs that Mr. Counsellor comes to us with this panel of the Education Council. I wanted to highlight two fundamental things. You speak of normality. Counselor, really, is that, after what you've lived in the cloisters at this beginning of the course, it's about normality you'd have to go down to the clauses and ask them. When you're being implemented within the operating costs of the center splits that are not in accord with those expenses; when you find yourself doubling the ratios in child education in certain centers; when you have centres that are found out by the press that they have positive in their classrooms; when you're stopping a director, even though competition in public transport is yours, because you left a student on the bus; in spite of all that, do you speak normal? Counsellor, it will be your normality of St. Caetano's bubble, but I assure you that in the educational community that normality doesn't come to your senses. [[Applause]] I'll continue, Counselor. When you talk about competences, we'll see, is that, really, I have a feeling that you don't listen and don't answer even one of the questions. Let's see, does the Education Council have competence to set the ratios in the classes, yes or no? You have the Board of Education competition, and you've had it all this time, to look for alternative spaces, by the way, as ANPA associations have proposed and moved them and they haven't answered them. Do you have that competition, yes or no? Do you have the competence of adaptation for the professor at the center? And, therefore, you come to say that the Education Council was passing by and that it all begins and ends at that meeting with the State Government of August 27th. But -- I insist -- they put the straw man's strategy again in my mouth when he said, "No, it all starts on August 27. Counselor, I've been telling you for two days: that the original sin of what you were talking about is by the measures that are on June 22, June. WHO Recommendations: One meter between desks. And talk to me about metric tape. The metric tape got her out of the educational community all summer when they were telling her a week, a week, a week, a half a meter and a week, a meter with mamparas. [[Applause]] So, then, Counsellor, here, what is required — and I tell you with all humility, with all the will of collaboration — is serious, it is serious at least when certain statements are made. WHO—he knows perfectly well—is telling half-truths—set a meter between desks. I just repeated it, I don't know, several times, and I haven't answered once. Tell me, what did you put in your July 22 protocol? A meter away between the axis of the chairs. It's just that that's what caused chaos. And there were communities that didn't, there were communities that set up a meter and a half between desks and that therefore saved many of the problems we had over the course. And then, simply, a question to finish. You're saying we must blame the central government. I absolutely agree with that, because there are managements that are absolutely improved and worthy of all criticism. But what is not worth to me is that you are saying that, on the one hand, you have to blame the Central Government and that, on the other hand, your ten members of the People's Party have gone there and voted in favour of the criteria for sharing money, which they now say is insufficient. If that's not chaos either, and if that's not a bandage, then tell us, sir, counsellor, what it is. [[Applause]] It's over. Regarding the protocols of extra-school activities, see, ANPAs have a fundamental role in the academic life of the centers. The ANPAs have been articulating all this time — and moving them to you — the proposals — you know as I do: school lunchers, plans Madruga, and they also intended to take forward several of the extra-school activities. The problem they found is that insurance covered us in case of a pandemic. And do you know what Mr. Pérez Ares' answer was when they were claiming security? Tell them they were politicizing their demands. As is the attitude of the People's Party, these are the consequences we have on the table. I think, Counselor, that you must reflect, that there is time, that there is much to improve. I insist: all our collaboration to provide what is needed, but believe me: if we don't recognize the obvious mistakes that we have to have on the table and if we don't recognize the demands of the educational community, we have a bad way to the future of this school course. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u127	Thank you, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Close this interpellation, Culture, Education and University advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The spokespersons who preceded me in the word of recognizing the work of the educational community; of course we recognize it, absolutely. And we recognize that we have mistakes, absolutely. And we recognize that it was difficult to open the course, absolutely. But you don't recognize anything, you have an ideological veil in front of your eyes; instead of having the mask covering the lower face, it seems they have it in the upper face. Because it gives the feeling that at the beginning of the course, where there was a lot of tension and many difficulties and many problems in the previous weeks, mainly derived from the change of the playing field, once it started -- so we went to high school for a week, to give time -- the course was developed with great normality, and you should recognize the great normality, great professionalism and great effort that made the set of the educational community to adapt to a change of standards from August 27th. [[Applause]] If we don't agree on it, you talk about consequences, but you don't talk about causes. If we don't agree and we can't recognize what's the cause of all the problems we've had to deal with, because it's very difficult to deal with this in a consensual way. Because in the end this is like the myth of Sisyphus: you take the rock and start walking, you want to go up to the mountain and when you're getting back. Because eventually time takes away the reasons, eventually time gives and takes away the reasons. And it is very clear that, after a hard time, of uncertainties, of work, of problems in secondary schools — not in primary schools, in children — derived from what we already think we're tired of repeating in this Chamber, I think the situation is very clear. You talk about the consequences, but you don't talk about the causes, because in the causes you may have some responsibility in the vault key, because you caused all the difficulties we had to do next. Look, we talked about a number of specific issues, and they don't trivialize them, because you're an expert -- I know you have your political merit -- by taking the anecdote and making it a general cause. They're able to question the impeccable health work that our healthcare professionals do, along with the professional shelters of the educational centers, and say, no, that, as in class there was a problem, it's all wrong. Hey, one thing is the anecdote. Like to say, no, it's just that you have fun, what do kids do in recreation? But do you know what the profile of the educational centers to which this measure is going to be attached? No, no, no, no. They're the general cause of the anecdote. And obviously I can't afford, as a Greek, as a person and as a political official, to question the work in the field of health because there's a mistake. Cannot even consider and convert the anecdote to general cause. By the way, we shouldn't be doing so bad when in autonomous communities in Spain and in the middle of Spain, compared to the half-Greek, we're in very good position; I gave yesterday the data, I won't repeat it. With the latest data that just came in very recently, in an exercise of transparency that very few do, we can say that there are six cases less than yesterday. I think it's important. There are two closed classes less than yesterday and there is no closed center. And if we compare it to other autonomous communities, the data I think is amazing. Just like FP practices. Look, it's just that FP practices haven't started yet; they'll start when the license plate is finished, which is not finished yet. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that we have to be responsible and that we have to be very solvent and solid in these issues, because it's not a class of anything, it's not a course where we can normally do politics or what you used to do. They need to be aware of the scene at the moment we are, and please, above all those of the Nationalist Block, look beyond Piornedo, look beyond and see what other autonomous communities are doing. [[Murmurs.]] See, evaluate and compare -- I said before -- and compare. I've already given the average data compared to the rest of Spain, and I think that's a situation that doesn't make much sense. And, of course, it is obvious that we have different political religious principles — let us say, in the political sense of the word. And it's good -- I said yesterday -- it's very good, but it's very good, but, hey!, that you're absolutely deep in the July protocol, that later you had to change in August, and precisely that change is the one that gives rise to all the changes in the high school system, bacharelate and FP, because it means that we have different revelations. We have different prophets and we have ways of seeing the world absolutely different, which, as I say, is not good. And we talk about ratios, we always talk about ratios, and I think Galicia has to be proud of its educational ratios, the teacher/student relationship. We are of the autonomous communities that have the best ratio of Spain, the best, along with Navarre and Asturias. After the teacher's reinforcement process, the ratio is in Galicia of 9.3 teachers/student, of the best in Spain, of the best in Spain! [[Murmurs.]] Yes, yes, in all autonomous communities there are rural and urban. Yes, yes, that data is never worth it to you, because it doesn't benefit you, but the real fact is that Galicia has the best teacher/student ratios in Spain, which is 9.2. [[Murmurs.]] And of course, everything can be discussed and everything can be objected. He said before: we're going to strengthen the cleaning of the dining rooms, we're going to strengthen the dining room and the cleaning of the educational centers, we're going to make it possible in the dining rooms where the ANPAs or the municipalities that integrate caregivers, because it was never needed and it couldn't be done before. But why? Because no one told us, ANPA or municipalities, that people who usually went to do this activity stopped doing it. And that went away five days ago or seven days ago. Of course, man, we can be good managers — that we are — and we can defend Galicia better than anyone — that we do, but you don't ask us to be diviners, because we don't want to go through like that guess who thought everything would end and it won't end. And you're sure that the education system in Galicia is working, it's going to work and it's going to work, and here's this government with the hand held to all the educational agents in the country so we can continue to work for our teaching. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u129	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Da Noa Susana Díaz Varela's interview with G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the policy of the Greek Government on the reactivation of the cultural sector in the face of the effects of covid-19
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u130	To formulate the inquiry, you have the floor to Mrs. Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u131	Thank you, Mr. President. Good day again. I wanted to begin my intervention — it could not be otherwise — by blessing the team of the "What Burns" Greek film, which we knew yesterday that the Academy of Cinema pre-elected her to be one of the Oscar candidates and on November 3 we'll know whether it's so or not. I think we have to congratulate him, and above all we have to congratulate him because it's a Welsh film, but it's also a film made by German team for the most part, and it's a film shot in Galicia and, besides, what's more important, it's a film shot in our language, in Greek. [[Applause]] Which means that already being pre-selected for us means -- and it's something I want to do, too, if I let the film team -- that from then on all the Greeks and the Greeks today can be proud because it assumes and assumes putting our language in the place it deserves. [[Applause]] Having said this, I'll go with my plea. With figures from last year's 2019, the Greek cultural sector reached GDP around 2.5 % and had employment figures of around thirty-five thousand people — not enough but very close —. So in recent years he has been presenting — it is true — really optimal growth rates. And that's right, but it's understood: we've reached these figures with an enormous effort on the part of the sector, because this sector has precisely seen the budget devoted to culture in all these years by the Council of Galicia, which has, as I say, declined in more than half in the last decade. But the pandemic comes, and with the pandemic there is this optimistic scenario, which has a very special impact on all of this industry and which in addition to the amount of an almost total paralysis. In this situation, professionals in all fields of culture in Galicia have moved and moved — and they have moved — their concern about a future uncertainty, which may lead to the disappearance of many companies, in addition to a significant loss of jobs. In view of this situation, the Council of Ministers of Galicia approves on 30 April a plan for the reactivation of the cultural and tourism sector in the face of the effects of the former Council of Culture and Tourism, and that of the 27 million total budget as it dedicates to the cultural sector around 10 — well, a little more than 10, sorry. In addition, this plan includes an economic study; by the way, I would like to know — because the plan says that it is still under preparation — whether this economic study is finished, which experts from the universities of Santiago and Vigo, who estimates, in an optimistic scenario — and please, in an optimistic scenario, take this data into account — a negative impact of the crisis in the culture sector of between one hundred and twenty million euros and a loss of between two thousand and five thousand jobs. But if we go to the pessimistic stage, we're talking about the loss of eleven thousand jobs, that is, the third part of the jobs in this sector. In view of these figures, which undoubtedly point to the need for strong support measures, a plan was expected to envisage concrete and innovative measures, especially innovating, which really subjected an oxygen balloon to this sector, which was in addition to the most affected, as we all know, by the pandemic crisis and which in addition to these times of crisis has proved to be an essential service. Because what did we all do at the time of confinement, what did we do? Consuming culture, right? We all consume culture. That's what we did in that confinement. The cultural sector has been there from the very first moment, offering its products, its projects, without asking for compensation in return, aware that access to culture should be guaranteed, because culture — and this is what this group thinks — should be recognized as a well-protected, good that needs public protection when it is in danger — as is the case — but also when it is not. Even though we recognize — and we recognize it — the difficulty of responding urgently to the needs of such a diverse sector, this document which was presented has proved to be insufficient. Of the fifty measures collected, only twenty were new, and in fact they weren't new, they were rather a reformulation very similar to what already existed. In addition, the plan revolves around Xacobeo 2020-2021, for us of course a wrong strategy. On the other hand — and it is not little important — it has been said that the plan was not consensual, but of course it was drawn up together with the sector, and nothing further from reality. A good part of the Galician cultural fabric tells us this: in its public presentation it manifested itself contrary to this document, which was empty of concrete content, and it also said that it lacked a strategy — we agreed — in the medium and long term that ensures the survival of jobs and initiatives, and in addition, they repeated — that this plan had not been consulted with them. Artists, cultural managers, illustration professionals, people from the world of dance, cinema, traditional music, performing arts, audiovisual, editorial, festivals, cultural associations and co-operatives all shouted the same. Recently, in Commission 4th, the Secretary-General of Culture, on a very similar question to this one, he stated that it was not true, that it was not consensual, of course, but that it had since worked with the sector, and for that it was said to be sixty-one meetings, with 200 agents. Of course, the question is that yesterday Mr Borja Verea, speaking of a GNP that was being discussed here on a proposal from the Socialist Party and talking about the tourism sector, also spoke of two hundred thirty agents. So, what's the matter? Did you meet two hundred and thirty agents? Were they all from the world of culture? Was it part of those 200 agents who were from the tourist sector? What about that third part of the Xacobeo plan? How many belonged to that part of that plan, to that sector? So, don't fool us, it wasn't consensual or elaborate with part of the sector, because they say so themselves. And besides, in the face of the criticism after the webinary that was made of presentation of the plan on May 7, which many people in this sector thought would be a bit more participatory, which was not so, the council expressed there that it would be open to new proposals. We want to know whether there have been new proposals from that sector and, of course, which have been and with which budget, because the document submitted does not seem to have undergone too many changes as regards May 30. Nor does it seem logical that, if this was a plan designed for a time of pandemic — if we can call it that — once this summer has been determining restrictive measures by sectors or geographical areas due to the recruitment of the pandemic, only the solution has passed — as it has happened — by looking for better dates for cancellations. One example of this is the cancellation or postponement — we do not know — of the programs of this summer of live music throughout Galicia, which were precisely seeking to stimulate the recovery of activities of live music professionals and of the galley concert halls in the face of the effects of the crisis, is more, when all these concert halls were fulfilling the measures of prevention, security and hygiene that this new situation requires. You can't equate culture and leisure, I'm not the same; really, I'm not the same. In this respect, we note how they repeat to satiety that of: culture is safe, but it does not seem to give too much credit to this judgment. We do, we think culture is safe, but, in addition, it is necessary. In his speech, as he also said a few days ago in Commission 4th the Secretary General of Culture, Anxo Lorenzo, explained that an awareness-raising campaign is under way to promote the consumption of culture, to which almost 20% of the budget of the plan will be devoted. Really, in writing, seven months after the pandemic started? I don't know. I'm sorry if I'm telling you that this delay is more of a lack of project and even a lack of interest, and in addition, considering that Galicia is glued to home culture consumption, only surpassed by Canary Islands, Ceuta, Melilla and Extremadura, according to data from the ministry, of last year in addition. Finally, in the face of this situation and less than three months after the end of this plan — because this plan ends on December 31st — the Socialist Group really has a lot of doubts about its effectiveness. And although we know that evaluations must be made right at the end, given the dramatic situation that this sector is going through, we'd like to know if they already have data or some evaluation of their recovery at a time when it seems that 80% of the plan has already been implemented. On the other hand, we are very concerned about what seems to be the view of this government on culture, which seems to be a compendium of shows and activities for the public that seems to be an abandonment of culture towards spectacularization, because I don't know if you foresee any other strategic approach to the recovery of the cultural sector that is not linked to the Xacobeo Plan. By the way, will CRTVG play any other role in this cultural reactivation plan that is not the broadcast of musical content during the Xacobeo Year? Because it's the only allusion in that plan to CRTVG. [[Applause]] In the end, too many doubts about the situation of a sector which, with much help, will see how it slowly fades. We'll see if we expect the advisor here today to answer some of these questions and get us out of so many doubts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Varela. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Reply by the Councillor for Culture, Education and University.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We add to the recognition of the film "What Burns", a film that is funded, as you know, by the Council of Galicia, and we hope that it will have a very positive journey, because I think this film speaks of the best we have in Galicia, no doubt at all. [[Murmurs.]] I also thank you, spokesperson, for starting your intervention by saying that culture was going in the right line. That's an argumental novelty that we really appreciate and that we'll always take it into consideration. Of course we're living an exceptional moment — I think no one doubt — that caught us all by surprise. And, of course, the administrations obviously had to strive to reduce, limit the harmful effects of this situation in all areas of life, obviously also in the field of culture. From the Government of the Union, from the Government of Galicia, we have been aware, from the very first moment, that it was necessary to act in the field of culture — from the very first moment — and we started to work by creating and designing this plan, with a series of assumptions, with a series of objectives. First, saving cultural employment — very important — approximately 30,000 people. How? By encouraging consumption and supporting the activities of companies and professionals in the world of culture. Second, design, innovate in the field of formats. It's obvious that things had to be done differently. We designed new formats -- some of them you mentioned here. For what? To continue with cultural activity in a context of health security, do things in different ways. We innovate and design new formats. And thirdly, fundamental maintenance, maintenance of business and labour structures in the cultural field to maintain and enable cultural supply. We act on supply and demand in the world of culture. And I think that was and is being fundamental, because, Your Honor, Galicia was Spain's first autonomous community that had a plan to reactivate the sectors in that cultural and tourist case, because that was the advice; by the way, much earlier, with much more anticipation and foresight and concern than the Government of Spain. This plan was the June Council on 30 April, discussed in this Chamber on 13 May, was expanded with more economic funds and the amendment was approved on 5 July 2020, within the Plan for the Reactivation and dynamization of the Galician economy. This plan, ladies and gentlemen, it's not just 10 million you said in cultural terms, it's 26.4; it's not 10 -- you said -- it's 26.4. This includes, of course, some measures that will take place within the framework of Xacobeo in the year 2021, of course, because culture has a fundamental role in Xacobeo; to deny it is to deny the very essence of Xacobeo. These are cultural actions that will be developed by the Greek cultural agents and which will favor the work of the professionals and the Galician culture industry. We are talking about twenty-two major cultural measures, ten of which are to be developed in the field of Xacobeo. And look, as we have already said in this House in various initiatives — in your own plea you have just pointed out to Commission 4a — this plan has been the result of a constant dialogue of the leaders of the cultural policy of the Union with the cultural agents of Galicia; no doubt the hemerothecs are there. The data is as follows: sixty-five meetings, we met with two hundred thirty agents and we had one hundred seventy proposals — many oral, many written ones. We have incorporated 71% of them into this plan; of course, we have not reached everywhere; of course, we have made one hundred and seventy proposals, we have incorporated 71%, but we have not incorporated them all. Now, to say that there were no consultations, that there was no dialogue, that there was no participation, that there was no positioning next to the cultural sectors is simply a lie. That was done by the ministry, as you know perfectly well. But look, it's been a while since you approved the plan. It was a complicated time, with many challenges, with many complications. Today we can make a balance sheet, a small balance sheet: 80% of the measures are being implemented or under way, they have mobilized around this plan twenty million euros. And we've done the data we've compiled: based on this plan, they've developed and they're developing about four thousand five hundred concrete actions, which are funded under this plan. With this what do we want? Keep, stimulate, encourage, support, develop cultural activity in Galicia. And — it is not right to say so — we have been almost an oasis within the Spanish ensemble in terms of promoting and supporting cultural sectors. And as I think it's necessary here to explain the obvious, to go with numbers and data, I'm going to try to do it, to put my finger in the chaga, to believe me, because I think, if not, they won't believe me. Look, specific data. Agadic financed 1,163 activities in networks and programs, 353 scenic functions, 50 performances in the Galician programme emergent — an absolutely innovative format — 22 theatre and audiovisual festivals, 12 music festivals within Galician Fest, 353 projects in the cultural project fund, 415 functions in the Culture on the Way program — which has multiplied its budget — more than 700 activities to dynamize reading in public hemotheques, 192 aids in the book sector, 40 aids to creation in the artistic field, 20 aids for art galleries, 50 aids within the plan for cultural projects and equipment, training activities in the cultural field for more than 680 people, 43 activities in rehabilitation of the heritage—10 in drafting, 11 in bidding, 23 in running. I mean, there's a long and many more activities up to 4,500 that have been funded or are funded and developed under this plan. I said it very quickly, but I think there is very strong support for this government to culture. What would we like more? Of course we'd like more. And what would we like to be accompanied by the deputies, by the councils, by the Government of the State? Of course you do, too. But we put as a premise that culture continues, and we did it with a brave posture. The easy thing was to shut down, some administrations shut down: here nothing is done in culture, in popular culture or in the highest level culture; and they were months and months and months without doing anything. I don't blame them. Many administrations — not Junta — chose to paralyze, radically ban cultural activity; it was easy; many socialist councils, for example. And you talked here about a live music show, as if we had the fault that couldn't be done. You'll know that this program is funded by the Galician Union for 500,000 euros. I myself went to the presentation of this program, in this case in a concert room, myself; the next day the health authorities decreed that it could not be done; of course, health warrants must be followed in this situation. But this program that you put here as a positive program I personally presented to you two days before, unfortunately, the decisions that were made had to be made. And, of course, I share with you — if I share it — that culture and leisure are different things. Culture is a very serious, tremendously serious thing, which enables many people to work. And I think we all have to be proud of the work that culture has done in the summer, showing that culture can be made, participate in culture, consume culture in a safe way. And it was done, but for that, we had to work before, we had to design frameworks, we had to design protocols, we had to make new projection systems, we had to make new production systems, we had to do things differently. And we did. And I think the world of culture has behaved in an absolutely exemplary way. For example, the first Fair of the Book of Spain was here at Compostela, we made it to Galician Union with the Federation of Librarians and also the Town Hall. We can say a lot of examples where we were pioneers in developing and activating cultural activities through new formats and through innovation. We made the lines of absolutely innovative support, for example, for cinemas, also actions for bookstores. And the Galician program itself emerges, I think it's going to be a great idea that you've got to go on after we've overcome the pandemic. Or some actions, such as, for example, we've just presented the exhibition "Galicia, from Us to Us." In any case, the situation doesn't like anyone, cultural agents, programmers, producers. Now, we are sure that this reactivation plan has been a tremendously important aid, a great breath for a lot of agents in the cultural world. And, obviously, what we do is we miss this effort and this commitment of the Galician Union...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u134	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u135	...it wasn't the same in other administrations, who had to be late, bad and track trying to put patches that were finally tremendously childish patches. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u136	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u137	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm really new in this parliament, but I don't think I'm going to have time to answer everything I'd like and I don't want to get out of the script either. If I'd like to make a record of something you've dealt with here, Mr. Counsellor. When pointing out these positive data from the sector — and I don't know if you heard it — it also said that it is not due precisely to the support of the Galician Union, which — if you know it — has reduced to a great extent the budgets that have so far, until the Bipartite era, were devoted to culture, as I said. Furthermore, it is of no use that they draw upon what were the first, the first autonomous community, who drew a cultural reactivation plan throughout Spain, because I would ask you that the best thing you needed was not to be the first, perhaps the third, but to draw a plan that really pleased the whole sector. So, it's good to take a chest out for being the first; the first is yes, but to make a document that's really very good. Thirdly, he's still talking about 200 agents, and I want to ask him: two hundred thirty agents for a plan that has three legs: the cultural sector, the tourism sector and the sector of Xacobeo, the Xacobeo as a whole. So who belongs to each of the sectors, because I don't know if the meetings, those sixty-five meetings -- the other day the Secretary General of Culture spoke of sixty-one, is equal -- were with 200 agents. I say that in times of pandemic he couldn't meet with so many people. And finally, they're talking about what they're talking about right now, four thousand concrete actions that are being developed. So many of them, as I'm going to explain, are developing, they'd be developing, too, because what they did was reprogram everything that had to be programmed and put it in the umbrellas of this wonderful plan. So in view of the answer, we've certainly continued to think that this plan, as I say, was an attempt at reprogramming of insufficient scope and lack of silence measures, a sin of financial muscle insufficiency, is very short in relation to the magnitude of the challenge that existed. As we said, it is of no use to a reactivation plan if the starting situation was already minimal, it is of no use. His title — and if we all agree — could be: a reprogramming plan. That is why we would all agree, and this honourable Member would probably not be here today. Why does this plan cover the future stage of our country's culture once it reaches December 31st? Do you find this plan? No, right? This plan also does not take advantage of this crisis for a paradigm shift in the model, in the cultural model of our country. That's where a plan of these characteristics should be, and I know that this would result in a better reflection. And that's why I'm saying that probably the best thing was that maybe it wasn't the first -- it was the fifth, it's the same -- but it should obey a deep reflection. It is not a question of reprogramming or opening new lines of action, but of exploiting this crisis to sit down and start preparing the cultural model that will be based in Galicia in the medium term, I no longer say in the long term; it feels the basis of its cultural fabric, industry, creation; it explores new sustainable models; it speaks of the autonomy of cultural spaces; it speaks of the emphasis on basic culture, the democratization of institutions — including cultural institutions — on budgetary stability for entities that are the guarantors of our culture, on the fight against job insecurity — it is not a minor issue — on the strong drive to create; it speaks of all these things. For all this, we, on a general and immediate basis, believe that it was possible to duplicate the funds of this plan, it was possible and necessary to do so, applying new resources instead of being mostly limited to re-adjusting existing games. But, of course, we've been thinking about the future, thinking about what we are looking forward to, and if culture for this self-government is really so important, in the new budgets, in the next budgets, what we really think about is that there has to be an increase in the object of being able to bring us closer to 1% of the total public spending, as an institution recommends for nothing suspicious as is the Gaga Council of Culture. We also need a permanent dialogue table with major cultural agents to develop medium- and long-term sectoral plans. Only by planning this way, with all of them, will we get out of this situation. We ask him, in addition, to really reflect on the Xacobeo. Without stressing this event, which will also take place several times in the next decade, this cannot be the axis on which the cultural policy of the Galician Union is centred. Of course you have to take advantage of the projection potentials you have, but culture is more than a set of activities grouped around a year or a particular event. Cultural policies, such as equality, should be transversal to all political action and continue in time, should be among the new priorities of Galicia's political agenda, because they are, these policies, the greatest strengthening of our identity as a people. Counsellor, the situation in the sector is dramatic, as it is now being denounced. It is the duty of the public authorities to give it a solution, and that goes by drawing up a much more sectoralized plan that gives solutions in the medium and long term and does not only serve as a patch for this pandemic. And I'm done. As we said, we need a deep reflection on the cultural model this country needs, and this plan is shown by that lack. We need to understand a strategic vision of the culture, the fruit of an ongoing dialogue, with the cultural sector as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Close the gap, Culture, Education and University advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u139	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand and accept all the criticisms, obviously we cannot agree on everything and we can't get anywhere. We can always improve our work, the opposition's work can also improve, eh! and much. And we have to listen to everyone. [[Murmurs.]] But, spokesperson, being you of the Socialist Party, having a minister of socialist culture, you have to have a lot of courage and a lot of boldness to say here in parliamentary headquarters what you have said, and, above all, to come and criticize so hard the plan of cultural reactivation of the Council of Galicia after what the Government of the State has done, after what a socialist minister has done. Look, we're presenting our plan. We were the first in Spain. I think it's important to be the first in Spain. You have done in the ministerial field, the most important undoubtedly, where you concentrate a fundamental part of the cost and public expenditure in culture -- don't forget — a plan to tow, were forced, everyone in culture has made a cultural stop to socialist cultural policies. I myself had the opportunity to send a number of letters to the Minister of Culture, of the Socialist Party, transferring requests from a state-wide field of competence that had even been transferred to me by the cultural agents of Galicia. Not the answer, not the answer. You won't want me to put the big headlines that have generated socialist culture policy in Spain, you won't want it, but culture is very serious; of culture there are 30,000 people living in Galicia, about. And it must also be a little bold to do or propose and ask for more economic support and defend a cultural policy compared to Welsh when the Government of the State has done what it has done. I'm going to give you a comparative data, because you were talking about economic insufficiency and talking about financial muscle. The plan of the Socialist Government, of the Minister, proposes for all Spain 56 million euros; Galicia raises 26. All Spain, socialist cultural policy of the State Government, 56 million; Galicia, 26. If we compare ratios per person, the cultural policy of the Government of Spain has put EUR 1.2 per inhabitant, with a high percentage of public spending on cultural matters; the Union has put almost 10—9.7—. Even so — I say that of boldness and courage — we are still encouraged that there is no support or insufficient support for culture. I, if I were a cultural agent, would see what my government is doing for me, my general government for me, and I would realize that comparing 1.2 euros against 9.7 because really -- I insist -- you have to have a lot, a lot, a lot of boldness to do it. [[Applause]] As I said, we made an investment in this EUR 26.4 million plan. We finance, directly or in collaboration with other public and private agents, almost four thousand five hundred activities. Imagine what summer would be like in Galicia if there were no such clear direct support for 45,000 activities by the Galician Union. We did, and we would do it again, and we wouldn't have to be forced, we did it voluntarily. Why? Because we understand that many people in the cultural world live and that it is necessary to stimulate consumption and cultural demand. I insist: the easy thing would be to close. Now, the person responsible, as we did here, as we did in Galicia, was to design, innovate, create new formats and consider different ways of doing things. Why? Because culture, in addition to a fundamental basic right for people — that we can share perceptions, etc. — is a factor that sustains thousands of families in Galicia. About 30,000 people have their economic support in culture. From there — I insist — you compare the cultural policy of the Spanish Government with the cultural policy of the Galician Union or you can also compare the cultural policy of some of the autonomys governed by left-wing parties with the cultural policy made in Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u140	Thank you, Counselor. We suspended the session until 4:30, four and a half. [[The session is suspended at 2:12 p.m. and resumed at 4:30 p.m.]] Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and two other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the policy of the Government of Galicia in relation to the impact of the covid-19 on the residences of older private persons
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u141	Mrs. Rodil has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u142	Thank you, President. Good morning, or good afternoon now, all of you. And good afternoon too, Counselor. They will remember — the advisor I am sure that too — that in the first full of this legislation since the BNG we have promoted the creation of a research commission on the management of the pandemic in the homes of older people, with the clear and firm will, but also sincere, to analyze, to evaluate, to study everything that happened in those first months or in that first wave of the shelter-19 in our country precisely in these residential centers; and with the objective of correcting errors, to avoid stumbling twice on the same stone and also with the objective of walking towards a new model of residences in our country, which today, fortunately or unfortunately, no one, even the Board of Galicia, can consider it unnecessary. The debate, which also began with the demand of the families of users and residents, ended with the veto of the People's Party to that commission of inquiry. But this issue has not ended there, neither in that plenary nor in that vote. The residences were either the main or one of the main outbreaks of infection during the first months of the pandemic. Nearly half of the deceased were senior residents, a virtually identical percentage — or 41% — in this second strike. Since the 7th of August, in which we had knowledge of the first person who died after there was none in July, until the 1st of October they died in residences 52 persons with curfew-19 of the 127 totals. The practical whole, in private residences, which, let us remember, manage 80% of the existing squares in our country. In spite of the whole life between March and June, in the second wave of the virus we see and we see repeated situations already lived, with massive contagions in residences. Since the BNG we are convinced — we always say — that this pandemic, this profound health crisis, has to mean a turning point in many areas. We can't get out of this situation through the same door as we go in, much less with regard to care and attention to older people, dependency; ultimately, everything that has to do with life and human rights for all of us, old or new. We will therefore focus on this interpellation, advisor, on two issues: research and prevention. That's what it's up to the Galician Union to do. The executive, you have the ability, the power, the resources and the responsibility to investigate what happened in Celanova, in San Lázaro, in Barco, in Aldan, in Barreiro, in the Incio or in the Hill of King for these months. In April, Junta said that he opened an information file to DomusVi about what happened in the residences he manages and of which he holds — let's remember that this is one of the groups with the largest residence squares in Galicia but not the only one. He never heard of such a file again, and it's been six months since his opening was announced. The first of the questions we want to ask you today since the BNG is: what was it? did you really start an investigation, some internal procedure on the whole of the residences?, did you tax whether the protocols are met, if you cover staff casualties, if you meet the ratios, if you fulfill the working days? The fact is that for years now, complaints have taken place by family members of residents, workers, trade union organizations and the Council of Auditors on the violation of precisely those labour rights and, therefore, on the decline in the quality of care of people living in these centres. Since the beginning of this legislation — and I hope the documentation will not be delayed — we have been asked to refer to the number of inspections carried out by the Galician Board in senior residences for the last five years, the results of these and also the sanctioning records, if any, which have begun. Because the vault made the invisible visible. He highlighted the seams of this country's residence model and, in general, of the entire care system; the deficiencies and deficiencies prior to the pandemic — we have said so many times — which have been denouncing for years the families, the workers, the trade unions and also the same Board of Auditors in the report sent to this House in September 2018; the lack of staff; the failure in particular to comply with the rates of direct care; the overload of work in residences; the deficiencies in the operating protocols — literally the conclusions of the report — or insufficient squares, with a ratio that leaves this country far away from the recommendations of the World Health Organization — which places in five per cent greater than sixty-five years the number of recommended squares. In Galicia, in addition to everything, the public, the private, the social initiative or the private-concerted, we do not reach more than 3%. And that insufficient number of higher residential squares that we have in our country are waiting lists of up to two years to access a residence — far from the stipulated times or collected in the vigil legislation — and also an overload of the rest of the social services in our country. Because I'm a whole, I'm a system, I'm not something whose parts are disconnected from each other. For example, this waiting list for up to two years -- I insist -- is overloading, for example, other areas of Galician social services, such as the home help service, converted into a tailor-made drawer that is paying attention to people who have other needs that cannot only be covered by that home help service. You are denying people of this country the right to access the resources and services they need — and those who, in addition, have rights — according to their needs. The SAF, by the way, has been leading since 2012 with the collective agreement which has expired and has become a huge precaution of people who devote their lives and work to taking care of others. He said research and prevention as well. What happened, what's happening, in the second wave in our country, what happened in the residences of the Incio, in Outero, in Lobeira or in Ourense, for quoting some cases? It's not acceptable or we should naturalize or normalize that one day, one day!, we know of 139 infected people, as happened on King's Hill, in one residence alone; or that, for example, in the Ballessol residence, in Oleiros, there are 24 squares, 21 infected users. [[Applause]] It's not admissible after all we've lived in this country. Nor is it acceptable for the Board to intervene only in the homes of older people when these massive contagions are detected. Prediction and anticipation means going ahead of the virus as far as possible, not towing it. And since the BNG we have often defended in public — if we consider it here — or in private — without going further last week at the meeting of the Committee on Health and Social Policy — the need for the Galician Board to intervene in all private homes. First, because you can do it, and secondly, because you have to do it to ensure that protocols are being complied with, that you count on the personnel needed to care for users and that you take all of the measures that are needed to prevent massive contagions from being recorded. They've been saying since June -- and I think I've read it even to you, Counselor -- that residences are not a bunker. And indeed they are not, we agree. But the question that needs to be asked is, what's wrong?, what fails so that after all the life in this country we can see cases like the ones I cited, where the practice of all the users and users of a residential center is positive? And it fails, Counselor, that, instead of anticipating, the Board was late. It was late, for example, by doing regular PCR tests to the staff working in these centers; not in July, not in August, not in September, but now. I read once what a doctor said, who was involved in transplants, about who, with all those who had done in his professional life, had saved 150 lives but who, if he had focused first on preventive medicine, could save 150 million of them. Translated into a more popular language, it's the saying that we hear so much in this country, that it's better to prevent than to heal. And, above all, it's better to prevent that you have to regret. We can't go to the gossip, we can't go, as far as possible, behind the virus because — I insist — it costs us lives. [[Applause]] In summary — and with this ending, President — we want to know, from the BNG, Counsellor, whether the Galician Union is acting to investigate what has happened in the homes of older people and whether it is doing it itself, on its own initiative, especially in the private sector, which, I insist, concentrate in our country the largest number of contacts and deaths. And, above all, we want to know what the Galician board is planning to do to prevent the same mistakes from now on in both the management of the shelter and the violation of the rights of the workers and the residents of these centers. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u143	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[One person from the House services comes to disinfect the stage.]] Reply by the Social Policy Advisor, Mrs. Fabiola García Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u144	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Rodil, very late. Six months ago I asked to appear in this same atrium before the Permanent Parliament of Galicia to report on the situation in which the senior residences were located. I've lived those early weeks of the pandemic, and I'm very aware of that concern, that mess and that huge uncertainty. I remember perfectly all those nights without sleeping and what it meant to manage the first wave of the coward politically. And that's exactly why I feel an incalculable appreciation for the people who played to fight the pandemic from the front line. I'm talking about the entire staff of senior residents, from the assistants to the kitchen and cleaning staff, who did the incredible thing to preserve the well-being of the older people who have every day in their charge. I'm speaking of, of course, also the entire staff of the home aid service, who never stopped to go to their homes to look after our elders. I'm also talking about all the health care personnel who, from primary care to hospital care, and also from hospitalization to home, gave everything to cure people who contracted the disease, and very especially those who are the most fragile. I think there are very few lessons that we can give all those professionals from this forum, because all we can and must offer them is our gratitude and gratitude. [[Applause]] As it shows with regard to the staff of the health care field, at least the gesture of reciprocity before their heroism, whenever the Galician Union speaks of residences, it speaks of realism and it speaks of responsibility. Because realism means making a quiet analysis of reality based on the criteria of all experts and proposing answers that are feasible. And responsibility means understanding that both the Government and the opposition must always look for political debate on this issue — which can surely be very profitable and also very healthy — never fall into demagogic formulas that only increase distrust and also sow fear. That is why I tell you, Mrs Rodil, with all the respect you know that I have - yes, I have a lot of respect for Mrs Rodil and that is why I say so - that the summary intervention of all the private residences in Galicia does not seem realistic or responsible to me. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because do you think that private residential staff, that in their vast majority of them have behaved undamagedly, deserve the administration to question their professionalism? Do you think that Galician social institutions, which also manage many of these centers and that in their practice all worked exceptionally under unprecedented pressure, deserve that Galician Union assumes its functions in a general way? Do you believe that families who trust in these residences, who trust them with the care and attention of the most loved ones, deserve to have the shadow of doubt spread before all this sector? In short, if I allow the simile, do you think a overwhelming majority of fair people should pay for a minority of sinners? I trust, Mrs. Rodil, that you and your party have a sincere and constructive will, or, as you said, a clear and sincere will, to continue improving socio-health care. Because we also have that will, and there we will surely find each other. But where they won't find us, it will never be in a very far-reaching trial against a whole sector that in its vast majority has responded at all times with professionalism, agility and a lot of dedication. We can't forget that in the most complex moments, with grotesque in all of Galicia and all of Spain, 99% of the residences in our community don't have any cases of refuge among their elders. This data only reaffirms our admiration for the workers and for the users of Galician residences, of all, absolutely all, of the public and also of the private and social-initiative. Unfortunately, until there's a vaccine, zero risk doesn't exist. Whenever we identify a residence where the quality of care and health is at risk, after a rush, the Galician Union intervenes. And the intervention criterion, of course, is not in any political case, it is not a business criterion. Because we intervened in large residences, small residences, private residences, entity residences. The criterion applied to intervene in a residence is what must always prevail in a context of health pandemic, which is the health criterion. Interpreting a residence is a very strong decision that must always be pondered and weighted but that we always try to adopt as quickly as possible. For example, the last center that took place was a small residential home in the Coulered Town Hall. On the same day that the grom was detected, the health and social policy councils jointly analysed the situation and took action. In the matter of hours, health personnel as well as healthcare personnel have been incorporated. Unfortunately, it was not possible to prevent the disease from leading up to the life of a resident user, so I want to send my condolences to that family today. But fortunately, the 22 fellow infected were able to heal and today that residential home is totally free of coronavirus. Of course, in the last six months we've learned a lot, we've learned a lot both the sector and the political leaders. We work, we talk, we listen to experts, and today Galician residences are more prepared than ever to cope with an infectious disease with more trained staff and with better comprehensive socio-health care. And that's why we just created this new general direction, with protocols that combine the prevention of contagions and the maximum guarantees so that our seniors can continue to have a neighborhood and continue to see their families, with a centralized supply of protective material — centralizing the Galician Union — with social service inspections and health inspections, both routines and extraordinary inspections, and with fifteen-year-olds of all residential professionals. Of course, Mrs. Rodil, we must continue to improve, as always, with realism and responsibility. We have, for example, the development of the new residence model, which will be dialogued with socio-sanitary experts and also with professionals in the sector. There is no doubt that the Galician Union will continue to work so that in the residential area the concern, the discomfort and uncertainty that so many families in Galicia have suffered will always give way to confidence, tranquility and the certainty that professionals in the sector can offer them. I'm counting on you, Mrs. Rodil, too, with the keen feeling of the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u145	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House services comes to disinfect the stage.]] Replica, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u146	Thank you, President. I first ask you one thing, because we see that it repeats itself repeatedly — it is worth redundancy — on the part of the Government. We don't know if it's a new manual. With the same respect that you have for me, and that I have for you, I ask you one thing: don't stand behind the workers and don't use them as human shields I explain why. [[Applause]] When here from the BNG, political decisions are questioned by governments — by action or by default — they also have an impact on these workers and users, in this case, on residences — we are not questioning the work of those workers. But it's just that the care of the biggest users and residents in an older residence depends not on having a lot of love, but on material, budgetary and human resources. [[Applause]] And I'm telling you not to stand behind the workers because I understand that they will also have the utmost consideration and respect on the part of the Galician Council when they file complaints before the inspection of the Social Policy Council because the companies that are holders and managers of these residential centres — DomusVi, for example, here in Ribadumia or San Lázaro — are not even meeting the conditions that require the regulations that apply to them in this country — the Order of 18 April 1996 or the requirements of conditions for concertating private squares by the Board of Galicia—. I suppose they'll have the same consideration. I'm going to read to you that you registered at the end of 2019, in December 2019, the workers of the DomusVi Ribadumia residence, who said that, according to the demands of this concert that this entity has with the board of Galicia, they had to guarantee -- because they have 152 users -- seven nurses. And on December 6, 7, and 8, 2019, there wasn't one or two, was that there was none on any of the shift, and that in the days that there was no coverage on the part of those people who had to be hired, they moved workers in their free days to cover from other centers of the business group themselves the deficiencies that they had in this residence. What I'm asking you is, what does Galician Union do in front of this? Because I insist that the curvature-19, which has happened to us all, has happened to us above all in everything that has to do with care, with public services and especially with social services, what it has done has been to make visible what has often been behind its back for many years. [[Applause]] I also give you another example of the workers who went to the inspection service of his office — workers at the DomusVi de San Lázaro, here in Santiago de Compostela, in February 2020, just a month after the health alert was issued. Sinalaban — and I have here the stamp of Junta de Galicia — "which does not maintain the number of staff members in the staff category offered by the recruitment and not even those collected in the specification". So, for example, of farmers, who had to offer 46, they were only offering 41.2; in the case of cleaners, when they had to offer 18, only 12.5 were offered; in the case, for example, of reception people they had to have 3 and they had only 1.71. And in the case of, for example, doctors — who are now very valuable professional figures in residences — of the 2.5 who had to offer, by the prayers by which they held squares in the Town of Galicia at this center, only 1.54 were offered. And those centres of the DomusVi de Ribadumia and the DomusVi de San Lázaro also appear in that report of the September 2018 Board of Auditors, which denounces the flagrant failure of the legislation and the obligations these large groups have to ensure the health and social care of the people who are users. What I'm telling you, Counselor, is that, if you told me in April that you were going to open a file to this group, what was that file? How did that investigation end? And I'm telling you to refer each and every one of the considerations to this House about what this group, which concentrates one of the largest number of senior residential squares in this country, is doing. The one responsible, since we're talking about responsibility, is exercising the powers, the obligations that a government has, and it's not looking elsewhere and then taking all hands to the head. It's facing up to the front, inspecting, controlling. I don't ask you to make summary interventions. Put me, in addition, words in my mouth that I didn't say. I'm telling you to comply with your protocol, which was approved by the Health and Social Policy Council, that in section 6.2, when you refer to public intervention in private homes, on page 13, you say you can do it. [[Applause]] We say it in the committee and I repeat it now. I do not ask you to enter like an elephant in a cassette -- and at the moment we are not asking you to nationalize anything, just Alcoa, in any case. But what you say at that point, on page 13 is that you can enter from the Public Administration to supervise and advise on the actions carried out by health and non-health personnel, in that case, within the residences. I'm not asking you for any very serious intervention, I'm telling you to do what they do, what they do, what they set out in their own protocol. We will continue to talk about residences, both inside and outside the pandemic, because we need a change of course in this country and put life at the heart of public policies ; and above all, change a government attitude - with this end - which takes too long, too long, turning our backs precisely to those workers you were talking about. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u147	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[One person from the House services comes to disinfect the stage.]] Close the interrogation by the Social Policy Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Rodil, Galicia has never left anyone behind and is not going to do it now, because we have done everything we can to ensure that senior residences can have all the security assurances. And also so that their users always have the best of attention. [[Applause]] From the very first moment of the pandemic, we've been equipping centers with prevention, safety and hygiene protocols, which we've been improving and perfecting to adapt them to the situation. We always act according to the health criteria, according to the care criteria, and we will always do so. Because all Galician residences, whether public, private or social-initiative, are under the protection of the Union and under strict and continuous control of health authorities. From Social Policy we always work hand in hand with the Council of Health, with a permanent coordination that we are intensifying with the creation of this new General Directorate for Integral Sociosanitary Care. We have already started working on how to improve the attention of our elders through this new residential model, with the involvement of health authorities and the residential sector. Mrs. Rodil, you ask me what the Galician Union is doing. The Galician Union carries out continuous inspections, social inspections and health inspections. I suppose you won't question the professionalism of the Galician board inspectors, I understand. Because, whenever we detect and have knowledge of possible deficiencies in the operation of a residential center, the Galician Union acts through the Inspection. And it works this year too. We carried out the inspection plan and carried out more than 250 inspections in senior residences and residences of persons with disabilities. The Inspectorate's technicians initiated 32 sanctioning proceedings in senior residences, all of them with regard to social services regulations. Because the objective we have since the Council of Galicia is — I believe you — to continue to improve the procedures of the inspection to act more quickly and more strongly in the face of non-compliance. So this very week we published an order to strengthen the inspector's work and accelerate processing times as well. In this new order, the centres will also have to report telematically on complaints or complaints that reflect users and their families in the claims books. We regulate the maximum capacity of two people per room in residential centers, or also the adaptation of community housing so that people with dependency above grade 1 can wait there for another square to be adjusted in another center. Mrs. Rodil, of course it's also about material and human resources, as you say, and that's why since the Social Policy Council we have increased 12% of staff in our public residences. The Galician Union increased by 65% the funds allocated to the older people, many more than you did, 65% more than when they were ruling in the Galician Union. Look, Mrs. Rodil, here in Galicia you're doing the right thing. Here in Galicia we are transparent, we send data to the media every day, we send data to the Ministry every day. I'm still waiting. Seven months later, why does the central government — which you know well and have a lot of influence there — not publish the data of what is happening in the homes of older people in the rest of the communities? What are you hiding, Mrs. Rodil? [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Look, since the Galician Union there's no doubt that we'll always work for our elders, they've been very hard months. And I deeply regret that of all of them and each of those families who lost a relative, who lost a loved one, in every major residence in Galicia. I share his pain and accompany them in the feeling. But we must also put data in perspective and also get a much clearer and more accurate view of reality. Check that Galicia resisted better than other territories reiterate us in that debt of gratitude that we have with all the Galician professionals who helped and worked hard in the containment of this pandemic. They, once again, thank you very much. [[Applause]] This pandemic tests us all as society. And the Greeks and the Greeks are responding in an exemplary way. Our duty is to focus all our efforts on dealing with this socio-health crisis, because together we are stronger and because being together Galicia will always come forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u149	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House services comes to disinfect the stage.]] Mr Martín Seco García and three other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Greek Government in relation to forest fires
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u150	Mr. Martín Seco has the floor to formulate this question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Counsellor, since this is the first time we have discussed in Parliament, let me begin by congratulating him on his continuing office and wishing him the best of luck in this new legislation; a luck that, in addition, becomes a real necessity to prevent our agony. And I don't want to forget those who lost their lives fighting the fire and thank all those who leave their efforts, their health and even their integrity to protect us from the fire and our heritage. The Culture Councillor said in the morning that he congratulated the film "What Burns." And he said -- these are textual words -- that "speak of the best we have in Galicia." And I don't know if you didn't see the film or if you didn't understand it, one of the two things. Because explained in the words of the director himself, Mr. Oliver Laxe in front of such shocking images of the fire, he says that "he faithfully collects the energy with which this film has been made the pain and anger that causes me the decreptitude of the rural." [[Applause]] And precisely this interpellation deals with that, with the most painful consequences of this abandonment: the forest fires and with them the destruction of our natural heritage and that of many families, and to the greatest of the personal misfortunes. Counsellor, the People's Party's Fire Policy is clearly defined in the words that the government's own members declared, when Feijóo spoke of the September fires as a classic; or his general director-general, when he stated that he was expecting strong incendiary activity at the central mass of Ourense that weekend. Counselor, you know what a lucid mind like Albert Einstein said?"Crazy is doing the same thing over and over again hoping to get different results." And that's really worrying, that I'm just responsible for the fight against forest fires that resign themselves to the rain to prevent the same areas of Galicia burning year after year. And knowing, as the Director General himself said, that what was going to happen at last happened, why didn't they strengthen the means of extinction and surveillance in those areas, Counsellor? As you will understand, in the light of these statements by the Government itself so illustrious of the situation, we have no further way to ask you to make changes in the General Defence Directorate of the Mountain and its policies so that someone with a more innovative approach to resigning itself to the cracking of the recurrent fires that ravage Ourense year after year. About ten thousand hectares burned in this month of September in Ourense — quailedro, Rairiz de Veiga, Vilarinho de Conso, Lobios, Vilar de Barrio, etc.—. By the way, one more fire in Jurés' natural park, with an impact of about 3,000 hectares that virtually turns into ashes a natural heritage of this entity. Counsellor, the best firefighting policy is to make as many fires as possible. And it seems like a phrase of pergrulum, but here's the main mistake of your Government's policies: not encouraging activity and avoiding the abandonment of rural areas. Because any Greek knows who best defends the fire is the one who works and lives on his own territory. And I also focus on research, conciliation and prevention in our territory. Counsellor, gainful activities are marginal in Ourense province, only 8.2% of meat holdings and 1% of milk holdings. And the forests are also residual, with only 5% of the timber cuts from all over Galicia. That means Ourense territory becomes a real biomass bomb, with acres of matte and mountain disordered in continuity without the natural cutters that form the land of labor, meadows and pastures that protect mountains and houses. And there's almost no preventive forestry in the forest masses. It is hardly understood that the Galician Union is not looking for a productive exit to the thousands of hectares of abandoned partial concentration, when this country, in addition, is deficient in food production and forage for our gain home, having to import them from other continents. Counsellor, as long as you don't abandon that policy of the press headline and your intentions to mercenize everything you touch, as if you wanted to turn our rural environment into a fashionable gateway with windows and country mirrors, model villages, etc., our rural environment will agonize. As long as there is no real set-up in activity that mobilizes land, as long as production is not encouraged, as long as forest management is not encouraged, the Oresan Mountains will not be protected from the major fires, which are increasingly more and more aggressive under increasingly extreme weather conditions. Counsellor, 90 million euros a year in means of extinction and so little investment in forest prevention and development is talking about the failure of their policies. I remind you how in 2016 the Board of Auditors pointed out as in the forest plan that the Government of the People's Party in 1992 said that by 2030 13% of the budget should be devoted to extinction and prevention and 87% to forest development and development. And in the past twenty-eight years, the ratio is just the opposite. Counsellor, I used to talk about window policy and I have to tell you that it just seems that it was what you did in 2017, when they began to review a forest plan of the year 1992 — which they were unable to carry out, by the way — and that in their work they counted on the active and proactive participation of our party; a work that was paralysed and that you used for a holder and a picture that served him for the arrival of his position as advisor. But then he was put in the drawer where the People's Party was hiding what he didn't want to bet on. And unfortunately for this country there are too many things that hide in that drawer. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we received multiple complaints from the staff of the fire department because of the lack of coordination of air resources allocated to the fires that weekend. You should explain who's been exercising that air coordination and if they had the same means as the previous year. They should also explain why that year was not agreed upon the basis that existed in years prior to the park of Jurés. In addition, we have received complaints about a systematic failure to coordinate the different terrestrial media, which have made a superhuman effort with brigades that should have at least five components, and that often come in with two or three components, and in some case with one. It's a clearly insufficient staff to fight against the fire and also to guarantee their own security. Counsellor, there are multiple casualties of unmet forest agents. In forest districts where there had to be between 20 and 30 forest agents are only operational for fire prevention and extinction work 14 or 15 agents. In forest districts with an area of more than 112,000 hectares, there are shifts where only one agent per turn is available in the middle of the day. In forest districts with more than 113,000 hectares, they have fewer environmental forest agents than in districts with only 59,000 hectares, made, in addition, worsened in recent years by medical casualties, retirements or disintegration of agents. This year, in some district, late and ill, untrained forest agents were assigned to cover only the vacancies that need to be covered throughout the year until October. Counsellor, you should understand that one or two district agents dedicated to research are completely insufficient; and therefore they should comply with their own proposals to expand it, which were previously contained in the Pladiga. The situation of technicians in the Prevention and Firefighting Service is known to society as a whole, desperate waiting for agreements after a strike where they simply seek a better organization of work to develop it with the necessary quality. We need to advance the professionalization of a sector with high-risk work in which in many cases appropriate wage conditions are not guaranteed, nor adequate material and technical equipment, nor the essential training for the extinction of fires and the work of preventing workers. And all of this leads to greater disunity, less effectiveness and greater deprofessionalization of jobs where danger and risk are constant. Fire prevention works, firefighting, runway auxiliary tracks and unplanned roads are not done in their own time. Most prevention jobs in the year 2020 are either out of sight or out of sight, which should be before July, without meeting the objective of having a good forest fire prevention policy. And there's no excuse for the appearance of the coronavirus, because forestry has been one of the subjects considered essential for the Administration, and it's also a situation that goes on year after year. In the Pladiga, reference is made to actions directed at the population; among others, sociological actions and environmental education. But we find that most of the so-called "forest classrooms" are closed, there are no training and awareness campaigns directed to the school population and not to citizenship, one of the objectives that is not met because there is no willingness to carry out these essential actions to change behaviors. If we want to change them and if we want Galician forest ecosystems to be valued, we must carry forward education and awareness-raising campaigns directed at the school population and the entire population. Where are your advisor's interests reconciliation work? And the transversal policies between different departments and other councils to act in the fight against forest fires? Totally forgotten! Even though we are continually listening to the representatives of the Union talking about intended pyromans and fires, it is incomprehensible that the perpetrators of these crimes are rarely discovered. And for this, we must investigate the causes and patterns of incendiary behavior, failures and breaches of legislation. And to carry out good prevention, we need to carry out a professional, specific and appropriate research. Counsellor, you know you have the tender hand of the Socialist Group. They had it in the past legislation when you looked for it and they could still use it all the time and when the result doesn't serve as a mere window and then gets stuck in that drawer -- as I said before -- in what you keep everything you don't want to do. Counsellor, I look forward to answering my questions, which you already have in the inquiry. And then we'll go on with some more stuff I want to talk to you about.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u152	Thank you, Mr. Martín Seco. [[One person from the House services comes to disinfect the stage.]] Mr. José González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Seco García, I thank you for the beginning and the end of your intervention, although by the middle you have changed a little tone and made a journey in ten minutes of practically all the evils that rural Galician has and which are the fault of the People's Party. But I would tell you to believe and need your data a little more, especially if you update them, because the strike of forest technicians has already ended on February 28. And I, as it usually happens to me, will try to answer all the questions of the interpellation — which are many — by grouping my answers into three blocks, which answer them all: the first is to talk about the causes of the fires; the second is to talk about the consequences of the fires; and thirdly, we are going to talk about the situation of the Galician Forest Fire Prevention and Defense Service. Look, as far as the causes of the fires in Galicia are concerned, this is a matter of public order. With data from researchers, three out of every four forest fires in Galicia are intentional. Ladies and gentlemen, when someone sets a fire in climate conditions like those that occurred in Ourense province from 12 to 17 September, with the intention, moreover, of causing damage to our mountain, our property or our people and our villages, he is a criminal. And all political leaders must condemn these incendiary behaviors. That goes ahead. In fact, the intent was clearly shown in this week of September. But the councilman doesn't say so, the mayors tell him — whatever his political color — the affected neighbors and neighbors and the researchers. Look—with data—between Saturday 12 and Thursday 17 September in Ourense province we had 67 forest fires, 8,740 hectares. Of these fires, 22 started in the morning, when they can't act in the air. In fact, the great forest fires started practically all on Saturday night; 12 fires in high-activity fire parishes and also in climate conditions prone to the spread of fires: heat, changing wind, short-term rain forecast... there were fires—various—with simultaneous outbreaks even in the same parish. I mean, circumstances that confirm what our professionals also transfer to us -- intent as the main cause. How do we attack this cause? Focusing on two areas: research and citizen collaboration against these behaviors. As far as research is concerned, it is important to highlight the role of the Environmental Agents of the Council in collaboration with state security forces and bodies. The strengthening of research by the Council is part of the conviction of the fundamental role that environmental agents must play in this issue. Look, there's no doubt that it's very complicated to stop an incendiary at the time of setting the fire, so we have to move forward in the investigation procedures and get out of the hands of prosecutors and judges. But the truth is, with the technological improvements we're incorporating, little by little we see the results. This year alone, we have 50 fire investigations. But I'm going to give you some specific data about what happened, because we're starting to take them in fragrances and I think it's good for all of us here to recognize that work. Look, on August 10 in Teixeira, an environmental agent of our research brigades has, in collaboration with Seprona, with the alleged perpetrator of a fire. In Nigeria, thanks to the citizen's collaboration, the neighbors surprised a woman when she set a fire with lighting pills. In September, the alleged author of several outbreaks in Boiro and Lousame was caught in fragrance by the Autonomic Police in collaboration with our environmental agents. Another alleged incendiary was surprised by the neighbors in Vilar de Barrio; a man was also caught in fragant in Cangas, again by environmental agents; and finally, the alleged cause of a fire of 49 hectares in Laza is also being investigated. All of these are accused of crime and made available to the courts. Someone's in jail without bail decreed by the judge the day after his arrest. And I have to say that these criminals will answer with prison sentences and with their heritage for the damage caused. In order to attack those causes, we also require citizen collaboration. This is already assumed, but all the political leaders — all of us here — must have an impact on the importance of this awareness. One example is the phone we started in 2019, the 900815085, which is already giving a very good result of research from calls to it. The second question — answering your questions — is the consequences of the fires, because beyond the causes we have to work on those consequences. Look, we weren't talking at that time in the Forest Plan Parliament, Mr Seco, we were talking in the study committee. And then we've looked deeply at the structural problems that make certain parts of the territory, when there's fire because of these incendiary behaviors, there's a lot of damage to the territory. The statement from that committee — which, by the way, was voted in favour of the three-fourths of the Galician Parliament, the PSdEG and the People's Party — determined two very important lines of work for me and which I think we must note here. Firstly, structural prevention through planning and management of our forest area and the recovery of agricultural and livestock activity on abandoned lands, in such a way that discontinuities are generated in the territory that are capable of stopping or, at least, diminishing the effect of forest fires. And secondly, but not least, the protection of our villages by strengthening the cleaning of the perimeter strips. We'll have to move on to other things, but at least those fringes are clean. Look, as far as prevention is concerned, through structural forest planning and management -- and by giving you data on what we're doing -- we've created a general direction specifically for that forest planning and management. Facts that we can point to in this direction because they are, for example, the adoption of the Decree by creating and regulating the Register of consolidated masses of native leafy, intended for the protection of these, but also the aids for the creation of forest surfaces with coniferous and leafy species. This year the order was changed by 8 million euros to increase the species of subsidised leafy species from ten to twenty-one. It also promotes the creation of new pine forests in the country through high-quality genetic repositioning. And it promotes actions of species change in the land occupied by eucalyptus and invasive species, such as black acacia or mimosa. We want to change that for leafy and pine trees. Over the past four years, 10,500 acres and nearly 19 million euros in these afforestation aid. You're talking about paralyzing the forest plan. Look, the Forest Plan must be a consensus document; and after its initial drafting, we had to incorporate the recommendations of this Parliament that we voted for you and the Group of the People's Party. The Forest Plan must now have its way in the pursuit of that consensus; firstly, by the Forest Council and, in addition, by this Parliament, fulfilling recommendation No. 34 of the dictation of what we are talking about. With regard to the generation of discontinuities in the territory by the way of implementing agricultural and livestock activity, I would like to highlight the pastoral plan, which is already being launched this year 2020, which will reach 2,250 hectares with nearly 10 million euros of investment, and the Model Village Project, which you will say is a lot of escape, but is already running 11 villages. And in those model villages, Mr. Seco, we do what we do is get back the agricultural activity around the villages on an average of 25 hectares, a traditional natural cutters. None of us here can go against that, they're already implanted and 11 of them are already running. Thirdly, the agricultural and forestry polygons that aim to mobilize abandoned but highly productive land. Indeed, many who burned in Ourense are these characteristics. These initiatives are tools that will be collected in the Law of Recovery and Put into Value of Galician Land that we will bring to Parliament in the near future, and which aims to mobilize 10,000 hectares each year throughout Galicia. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a law that takes up much of the recommendations of the ruling that we have voted on in that committee. And finally, as far as the action against forest fires and their consequences is concerned, with the protection of our villages by reinforcing the cleaning of their perimeter tracks. See, as part of the recommendations of the dictatorship, we have signed an agreement between the Rural Council, Fegamp and the Seaga public body for the setting up of a public service for the cleaning of these secondary tracks in parishes with the greatest risk of fires. And I'll give you data. This agreement incorporates a series of instruments aimed at facilitating the municipalities to comply with their obligations in the monitoring and subsidiary execution of the cleaning of those strips. We understand, ladies and gentlemen — and here we speak — that inter-administrative cooperation was necessary and that municipalities had no capacity. And what the Galician Union did was put in that agreement 7.5 million euros each year to fight the cleaning of the fringes. At this point, they are already in line with that convention, 265 municipalities in the total of the Greek municipalities, i.e. 85%. I'll also give you data. Do you know how many municipal fire prevention plans we had before that agreement? Sky! How many do we have today made by the Galician Union? 186. But besides, we're working in 157 parishes of 81 municipalities, which account for nearly 10,000 hectares. In these priority parishes Seaga cleans for the price of EUR 35 per 1,000 square meters or EUR 350 per hectare, following the signing of a contract with the owners. Look, hopeful data: after this work that we're doing, on this 10,000 acres we have two thirds of the managed surface, we're clearing the fringes; and we're seeing that more and more people are being incorporated into the work that we're doing in collaboration. We're talking about 177,000 plots to manage and now we've got notifications -- the notifications have to do the Town Councils but we've prepared them -- to notify 65,000 plotholders who have not properly managed those parcels. So these are data that believe the importance, the transcendence and, above all, the administrative work that involves all this cleaning of the fringes. But I think, above all, with the work of the municipalities, the work of the Fegamp and the work of the Galician Union, we're going to be able to achieve that goal. And I leave for my second intervention what refers to the current nature of the Fire Extinction Service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u154	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House services comes to disinfect the stage.]] Mr. Seco's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counsellor, sometimes hearing so much about the intent of the fires and almost hearing that the rest of the groups don't condemn the situation of someone who plants fire and hurts both our land and our properties, and even our human lives, it's almost an insult if the person who is dedicated to the life of the public service might think he's not doomed. Of course we condemn! We absolutely condemn those who set fire to our territory! But it does not come with the speech that only and exclusively speaks of intentionality and crime, and that the criminals will already be persecuted, but that it is necessary to go to the causes precisely why those fires are produced and to act on those causes to prevent the number of fires that occur. [[Applause]] And for that we have to have a policy not — as I said before — of conformism and of continuing to put millions and millions of euros in extinction. And if we have to make a policy that really bets on rural activity, that's about prevention and also about research. And it also bets, of course, for everything it has to do with developing rural and not being abandoned. Because in the end, look, there's no better person who defends his land than he who's there, who works and who benefits him. They're the ones who really better defend their land. When the ground is completely abandoned and the earth is completely abandoned, that is, obviously, focussed on the possibility that someone might put a spark on it or that other circumstances might produce a fire. You were talking about me saying that the technicians were on strike. No, I know they're not on strike. But what I'm asking you to do — and I suppose you'll be asked by all the technicians who've been on strike — is to come to an agreement so that the strike won't come back. Because we know that you are in dialogue and I hope that it will come to fruitful issues to really solve a problem. You said, of course, that the general directions were unfolded. But what didn't unfold is people, who can't do their jobs on the one hand and on the other. And there's no management system so that these people can have their own lives, a conciliation system and be able to do their work. And I don't want to talk about the district chiefs anymore. You said you're betting on research and I'd like to know where all those squares were put, that you said you were going to create, agents dedicated to research. Because they were at the Pladiga and suddenly they disappeared. Look, do you know what's really desperate? You talk to communities in the mountains of Jurés, who are agreed with their council, who have to observe how the mountain burns in 2017, who see that their advice does not do anything and that they don't let the technicians they have there do; that these communities go to their money and spend thousands of euros to make a fire prevention plan, that they send it to their council, and that they have to see how their heritage burns again in 2020 without the Council giving them even so much answer. Do you know what is really desperate, Counselor? To see how many beekeepers of Ourense observe desperate year after year as they burn their hives without having absolute support from their councillor. Look or what a beekeeper says: "The topic of fires is a terrible brake for our activity, because it is a contradiction to encourage young people and tell them that Ourense province is the most favorable for honey production because there is a lot of lots of raisin and at the same time that, when a fire occurs, the Administration does not defend these fire farms. Because those new people who start asking, "Why do I put them?" Another says: "The most humiliating thing is that two years ago he also burned and from the administration they drew a line of food aid in which also the bees entered, but I ended up giving up and giving them up because everything was paper, bureaucracy, and then they came to you with percentages that didn't even give you VAT." That's what people say, not what parliamentarians say. Do you know what is really desperate? May a fire department technician observe how they set fire to him in the morning and replant him in the same fireplace at so many hours in the morning in a place where there are ten houses and maybe twenty neighbors. Counsellor, if you investigate and get to the problem, why don't you do some conciliation policies to try not to happen again year after year? Do you know what is really desperate? To see that, by not having done those prevention jobs that you said were done but that this year they were still not developing recently, we saw more and more aggressive fires, that they reach housing and that at some point we might have to regret ourselves for personal misfortunes. Another issue would be the management of natural parks, but we don't have the environmental advisor. We don't know, in addition, if you talk, because transversal policies that are seen in one sense or another are very few. Many questions could be asked: why did the directors disappear? Why do there not exist joint mechanisms of work with Portugal, and many other issues. But let's go one step further. It's been over fifteen days since the fires and we still don't know anything about the mountain restoration work to avoid erosion, to avoid the loss of soil and not to contaminate the aquifers. And I remind you that article 49 of the Law on Prevention and Defence against Forest Fires requires the Council of Galicia to act. Let's hope it won't be late, because heavy rains can come and these pollutions really happen. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u156	Thank you, Mr. Martin Seco. [[One person from the House services comes to disinfect the stage.]] Close by Middle Rural Adviser
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Seco, to speak among counselors we already have a good reference in the Bipartite and how they spoke among you. Don't worry, we're talking to the environmental advisor. [[Applause]] And besides, in relation to the natural parks, I have to tell you that you'll soon see things you're working on at the Environmental Council and the Rural Council. I repeat — and I think it can be a good debate, although it has to go a little further to the realization and not to so many vagueities — that there is a need to differentiate causes and consequences. And from here, look, I want to thank you for just doing what you did in this lobby: condemning incendiary behaviors. Because Mr. Rivas wasn't able to do it the other day in the question, and that's what we asked him to do, that we all condemn incendiary behaviors. And then we talk about the consequences. [[Murmurs.]] But I also had to talk about the third pillar, the third block, answering your questions, which has to do with the situation of service. And then I want to make it clear that we have not stopped introducing improvements — as I shall now transfer to you — in terms of personnel, air and land resources, surveillance, inter-administrative coordination and forest management. And I, speaking of the Galician Fire Prevention and Extinction Service, have to ask, as always, respect. Look, hearing them talk about bad coordination, low professionalism or lack of attitude is a barbarity. In the fires I visited this summer, in addition to listening to the criticisms of the neighbors and talking to everyone approaching, I was able to check the spectacular attitude, the impressive professionalism and the sensational coordination of forest firefighters, environmental agents and all the components of Galician fire prevention and extinction at those moments of tension, risk and uncertainty. If you think that with this critical speech you attack the Government, the advisor or whom you consider to be, the one who really causes harm is the whole set of men and women who integrate the device. Listen to the data. [[Murmurs.]] Look, only in Ourense, on that weekend, a total of 2,000 people and 38 air vehicles were deployed, who worked hard until they ended the cracking of active fires. Talk to me about coordination. You know what's been done at all times, you know what's done at all times with the air media? Defend villages that could burn and that were in position 2. And we had to be constantly moving air media with the best coordination professionals to defend these villages. Thank God none burned, and there were moments of great tension. How to question that coordination! I ask you, please, to reflect on these statements. I, as Counselor of the Middle Rural, but also as a Greek, am grateful to tell professional stories of this size. And I will never get tired of valuing your commendable work in such extreme and adverse conditions. [[Applause]] Look, talking like that is for them to say that if I fill my mouth with flattery. You say it as criticism and I consider it as a compliment. To speak of the people who are part of the service, to question the professionalism of those who risk their lives to safeguard the safety of the Greeks and the Greeks, of all of us and our territory, is a lack of intolerable respect. From the Director General to the last forest firefighter, we have an extraordinary device under a single command, with optimal coordination that allowed the fires to be extinguished in the time of the relevant research work. Do we have to continue to improve the operation of the service? Of course I do. But there's a compromise on the side of the board. And I also give you data. Look, we work, according to the recommendations of the dictation, to make a unique and versatile public service. We joined the service, starting in 2017, five workers who were in the Seaga Public Service. But we spent three to six months working time with a thousand workers in the service — EUR 12 million in investment! He's talking about a lot of uncovered squares. There's data I can believe and bring them here to the president. There is 92.66% of the total occupancy rate in the service, a service that this year has rerecorded in the attention of fires, with less than 20 minutes since you are aware of the existence of the fire until there are these men and women who defend us to extinguish it; and, in addition, with a counties rate of 74.8% of the total fires — one of the best, of course, of Spain — of course. Look, I finish as you finished your first intervention. This is a problem that affects all of us and all of us at the same time. The enemy is common. The only thing we can achieve by making criticisms to the Council is to transfer these criticisms to the service, causing a reaction of citizenship that does not benefit the whole of the Greeks and the Greeks, and in particular, harms all the professionals in the service. That is why, Mr. Seco, we must add our efforts to fight forest fires and give the right structural solutions, all together and with consensus. [[Murmurs.]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u158	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u159	What do you want the word for, Mr. Rivas?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u160	In the course of Article 76, for allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u161	He's got a shift. He was alluded to by a trial of value.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u162	From BNG, this deputy and BNG we condemn...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u163	I'm sorry, but you don't listen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u164	I say that since the BNG — and this honourable Member — we have condemned the incendiaries, of course, but we also condemn the Union's incendiary policy. [[Applause]] The counsellor cannot base his policy on the students who speak out to the fire department. The policy to tackle fires is a structural policy that has to go to the causes of the problem, it has to order the mountain and it has to give activity to the rural environment to generate economic activity and manage the territory.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u165	Quiet, please! The debate has been directed by me. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u166	It hurts, doesn't it? Of course it hurts! They are forty years of policies of destruction of the territory, forty years!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u167	Thank you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] The debate has been directed by me! Quiet, please! I know when I have to give the floor and when I don't have to. Take care of the allusions, everyone, because I have to be right about that. So you measure the interventions. We continue with questions to the Government. It's the eighth point on the agenda. Question by Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and two more MPs from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, about the actions being carried out by the Government of Greece to enable the viability and maintenance of the jobs of the Conservative Thenaisie Provote, in the municipality of Grove
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u168	You have the floor to Mrs. Prado. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u169	Good afternoon to all and to all, and especially to Thenaissie's business committee, which is following us in a room in Parliament and to whom I want to move all the support and encouragement from the Galician Nationalist Block from here. [[Applause]] Thenaisie is a company of the most important in the Grove, a fundamental economic engine, a cannery with more than a hundred years of history. There are currently 125 direct jobs between the production plant, located in the Grove, and the logistics part, in the municipality of Mos, to which the more than two hundred temporary and all indirect must be added. And it's also worth noting that 90% of the staff are women. In 2018 it was acquired by a Romanian company, Scandia Food, who became a unique partner and in just two years took it to the creditor contest. There's a lot of concern about the company's situation, because it rains on wet. At Salnes we saw how companies in a strategic sector like the canned, which has generated thousands of jobs — basically women — were disappearing one after the other. And it must be said enough now, that the Grove Town Hall and the district of Salnes can't afford the closure of Thenaissie and the loss of industrial fabric and other jobs. [[Applause]] The situation of uncertainty of workers in this canteen is total. They're fighting for their jobs, for their present, but also for the future, for the continuing industrial activity that guarantees work for other generations, that guarantees decent work on earth also for the future. And they go through the months and they don't see any solutions. Junta has stated that they have possible contacts, that there are possible investors, but no realisation. And they worry about them being fireworks again and they don't go through that. The closest that was to an alternative was the proposal of a Greek businessman who publicly stated his commitment. He explained it before the Works Council and all the political groups represented in the Grove Council, which expressed support for this company because they considered it viable. And he had the support of Anfaco and the support of Zona Franca de Vigo, because they saw that the maintenance of the jobs could be guaranteed. And the current owner boycotted this proposal. We want to know, therefore, Counsellor, whether the Board is working on this alternative — which was the only one that has come true — or what are the other potential investors, the level of confidence in offers, whether they have firm commitments and whether Scandinavia is committed to putting itself aside if there is an investor. We think Scandia has to do it, because there's no justification for it, having modern facilities, experienced and capable staff, and with a conservation sector on the rise, if she hadn't been able to maintain a business project like this. The responsible performance of the staff board must be correlated in the board of Gaulza, Counsellor. They need to stand by and be reluctant to look for solutions. So today, we want you to tell us what the board is doing to give it a way out, an alternative, to the Thenaissie cannery.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u170	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Answer from the sea councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u171	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Prado, my first words also have to be a greeting to all the representatives of the employees of Thenaissie's business committee. I'm sure all the actions that the Galician Union is taking in to enable the viability of this company and the continuity of jobs have already been commented on in its 8th commission. [[Applause]] Anyway, I like this opportunity today to reiterate that we are working on the search for an industrial partner and that we are perfectly aware that, with difficulty, we will be able to save Thenaisie's factory. This same week, on Monday, there was a new meeting with the company committee in which we referred to these actions and the intention to continue on this line. Because — I have to say it again — we are aware that Thenaissie has provided modern facilities, recognized trademarks and, above all, genuine workers who know how to do their job very well, with a long experience. Since then, our highest priority is, as always, to ensure that industrial activity is maintained. And there's no doubt about the concern that the Galician Union feels about the delicate situation that this company is going through. There have already been several occasions when both the Director-General of Fisheries and the Director-General of Igape have met with the Enterprise Committee, meetings where it can be observed that the position in favour of maintaining employment and activity is common for both the workers and the Union themselves. In the same sense, both the second vice-president and economic, business and innovation advisor as I have made contacts in the search for that industrial partner, and we are working to retrain the situation with the objective of maintaining the production of Thenaisie Provote and as many jobs as possible. Also, and as already mentioned, the two advisories also keep in touch with both the current property and possible investor partners in order to achieve this goal, as well as with the workers, to add alternatives and proposals, taking place the last of these contacts, as I told them last Monday. In this sense, and speaking of the search for an industrial partner, it must be pointed out that the first option of the Government of Galicia will always be an option that allows us to focus the industrial capital of the conservatory in Galicia, but we have to reiterate again that it is different from a company outside that the company is going to produce. I'm done. This company can and must have a way out, and that's why we're still working to find that industrial partner and so that, based on experience management and the ability to know production and the market, it can continue to give plants a future, and above all employment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u172	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u173	I really welcome you coming today with this spirit of optimism saying that you are waiting for a solution, because the business committee is here today, in Parliament, waiting for the Board to move a firm commitment to present an alternative. They hope that Junta will fulfill what the current economic vice president promised on July 6, a few days before the election campaign, which was to unravel the subject. He also said very good words to them, and at that time there were investors, too, what happens is that three months later we're still having a meeting that's holding another meeting, but we have nothing in particular, Counselor. The workers expect them to intervene, negotiate and do it in time because time plays against it, because the more time the worse the company's value deteriorates. You know it well. It is clear that for Scandinavia the maintenance of the business project and jobs is not a priority, it has shown it already by active and passive, but for the Union, it must be a priority to act decisively, not in this way, that to us, and above all to the company committee, it seems to us that it is too late, because I have to remind you that it takes five months to compete with creditors. The Greek Government has competence in industrial policy, employment and fisheries policy, and what we ask of it is that they exercise these powers, that they exercise them and that they present an alternative, that they do not allow the increase of the industrial desert in which Galicia is turning from north to south and east to west, because, behind that desert, what is precariousness and unemployment, what is a diminishing Galicia, and of course we do not want that to happen. And we don't want to lose a company, industrial employment and female employment, and we all know how few things are in our country. There's got to be an alternative for a company that actually has modern facilities, a capable staff frame, and a sector that keeps it up, and what's needed is an investor who wants to pull out, precisely, from the company. If it's so easy, what we ask you to do in time and time, because the government has instruments...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u174	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Time's up. [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Your time is up, Mrs. Prado, you know what this is like. Thank you. For the closing of the question, the sea councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u175	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Prado, the truth is, I haven't been clear. You're talking about we're dismantling all companies, but then, at the end of the day, we were talking about a company on the rise, a sector on the rise... I'm going to give you some data. Look, the conservatory sector of the Galician fish and seafood processing industry is at a very good time, as much as you are struggling to talk about job destruction. Over the past five years, more than a thousand jobs have been created in the processing industry, the billing in the last two years has risen by 14%, and in the frozen we have been in figures close to 20%. In export, it looks at, between 2009 and 2019, its value increased by more than 100 %, from 350 million euros in export to 710 million euros. If we talk about everything that has to do with the export of products from the sea, we see that we have risen more than 2,200 million euros. Today, Galicia is region number 10 in export value, above countries as small as Japan or Iceland. We've also advanced on a very important theme, which is the increase in the value added. Only in the last ten years has the average value added price increased by more than 40 %. Another fact for you to see that we're believing that we didn't destroy jobs, that the Greek Conservative industry is much better than the rest of Spain, is that the 2019 IPI in Galicia increased by 5.2% compared to 1.9% that grew by average in Spain. So help the conservatory sector, help speak well of what we're doing well in Galicia. That's the news you're trying to transfer to society from a crisis sector, from a sector that's fading out, they're not, quite the opposite. And we, both the second vice president and the economic, employment and innovation advisor like myself, are convinced that we will be able to help Scandinavia find that investor partner who will give this plant a future in Grove. That's why we've been working very hard since minute one. We'll take some time, but things like doing them right, and of all the work we're doing, we'll keep them informed, of course the company committee. The two general directors, both the Director General of Fisheries and the Director General of Igape, have constant meetings to keep them informed of all the steps we are taking. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u176	Thank you, Counselor. Accumulation of two questions for their joint formulation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u177	We are now debating in an accumulating manner a question from Mr. Daniel Castro and another from Mrs. Patricia Otero. Question by D. Daniel Castro García, from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, about the actions that the Greek Government is defending in the face of the Alcoa crisis Question from Patricia Otero Rodríguez and two other MPs from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the activities that are developing the Government of Galicia in relation to the situation of Alcoa, in San Cibrao, in the province of Lugo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u178	He begins by asking the question Mr. Daniel Castro of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. When you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u179	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. We've known since June that Alcoa wanted to leave, that he wanted to carry out an ERE in the San Cibrao factory, but, in fact, we've been since 2012 knowing that this problem existed and that sooner or later the situation that we're living would happen. And look, since that time BNG was manifesting and defending the work of the factory. But with this I mean that Alcoa is following a roadmap, and we all know it. And if he does, among other things, it's because he can, by work and grace of his labour reform, of the labour reform of the People's Party, because if you hadn't carried out such a reform, the decision wouldn't just be in Alcoa's hands, because it would require prior administrative authorization. [[Applause]] You, who talk so much, think that's what it's like to be on the side of the workers and the workers? And I'm saying this because what can't be is that an American multinational can laugh with capital letters from two administrations like the Government of the United States and the State Government. They have the tools by hand, use them, intervene now, because if the Navy has been complaining for months that the solution is an intervention, for something will be. Leave the quiet ways, leave the press office and intervene now, I repeat, or will they continue to dare to tell people that they have been manifesting for months and on strike that they need rest? You can nationalize, it's possible, and what's more important, it's necessary, so they stop lying to the population. And that's why we ask him again: are you already working on the intervention? Will they be preparing for public intervention before the 20th of this month? I'm done, and I didn't want to do it without stopping at one of the words the president of the board said in the morning session. He says they have every commitment to the Navy and to the Alcoa workers, and I wonder, can you say that a president of a country who hasn't been worthy to step on the Navy during all the months of mobilization? Can you say that? [[Applause]] We haven't seen him anywhere, we haven't seen him, it must be fear. Can you say that to a president who is afraid of his own people? -Don't worry, I heard everything very well. [[Murmurs.]] We're at the discount, and the Navy and this country can't wait any longer. Listen to people, and do it because in the Navy we're not going to let a multinational kill us. The Navy didn't fail, you don't.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u180	Thank you, Mr. Castro. Now you're asking Miss Patricia Otero's question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u181	Thank you, President. Welcome, Counselor. Go forward with the support of the Socialist Parliamentary Group to the workers of Alcoa and their legal representatives, as well as to the workers of the auxiliaries, who are mobilising themselves legitimately and demanding the maintenance of production and the defense of their jobs. [[Applause]] The unit to overcome the crisis posed by Alcoa is essential, and my group congratulates itself on that; unity of workers, neighbourhood, mayors and mayors of the Navy and central and autonomous administrations. And I also want to value the weighting and the extent to which you are proving yourself, Mr. Conde, in your last public interventions. It's too bad that what we hear today morning by the president of the board is not in this spirit and goes back to the argumentary of the electric tariff, which only works this argument in favour of Alcoa and not of his workers. In any case, we already know that to Mr Feijóo blame may even be up to the Bank of Spain; of everyone but him. Anyway, Mr. Feijóo, in a pure state. But the important thing is, after the autonomous elections, the German Government had come to the theses that we always defend the socialists, because we haven't changed our position. But, as I said, the important thing is that the Galician Union had come into play and that only Mr. Feijóo is what goes through obsolete arguments that only introduce confusion. Today we all agree that Alcoa lacks any other reason not to be willing to relocate production and let San Cibrao and the Navy shine in a desert for their workers so as not to sell to a potential competitor. We do well to keep staring at the strategy, make Alcoa give up and move on to a new investor with a future project for the plant. The inflexibility shown by Alcoa in the negotiation led the Government of Spain, in collaboration with the Union, to make an offer to negotiate directly with Alcoa and that the factory was acquired by SEPI to transfer it later to Liberty. Yesterday, the minister himself committed again to analysing all possible instruments to save the factory and, in coordination with Junta, to require Alcoa to justify compliance with labour and environmental legislation, and told him that, if evidence of non-compliance is appreciated, he should be asked to return all the public aid they received. And it should be recalled that this same Monday the Ministry itself sent a requirement with the requirements for receiving the 2019 CO2 compensation. That's why this Socialist Group asks you: what are you doing in connection with the situation of the Alcoa factory in San Cibrao? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u182	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. Reply by Vice-President Second and Economic, Enterprise and Innovation Advisor, Fr Francisco Conde López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Castro, Mrs. Otero, I thank you for moving the situation of Alcoa to this Parliament and therefore we can move what the current situation is, who know the workers very well, because we are in constant contact with them as well as with the Government of Spain. I'm telling you, thank you. I don't think it's time for party interests. Unfortunately, I had to listen this afternoon to more partisan positions than to defend the Alcoa workers. I, ladies and gentlemen, I do not intend to enter this game, there are 1,000 families that are affected by the situation of an unfair decision by a multinational like Alcoa, and this Government, this parliamentary group, considers that we are now adding all political forces to make Alcoa re-recognizable and therefore feels that he is again negotiating an agreement that would give viability to the factory and guarantee employment. [[Applause]] And I think gentlemen, which is the time -- even this afternoon -- to act with one voice and, therefore, not to use the use of the word to try to confront, because that, unfortunately, is not going to solve the problems for the workers. I think we should be able to continue to show unanimity that in the past we have moved the three parliamentary groups in this House, and in that context I think that is where we have to work. The Galician Union, of course, has proved for all these years — and I speak for years — that since 2011, Alcoa workers have always had it by their side to find solutions at every moment, and those solutions have been found. The objective clearly at this point is to maintain industrial activity, therefore, to prevent the paralysis of the tanks and to save those thousands of jobs that are at stake right now in the daytime. And we'll do it the way we've always done it, we've proven it at the time when we built the marine gas pipeline, and also when we had to establish help to convert fuel furnaces to gas in the alumin plant. We also met the needs of the sector to boost its consideration as a strategic essential electro-intensive sector and, of course, at the moment we are also working so that, through collaboration with the Government, we can promote the modernization of the plant through the National Plan of Recovery and Resilience. We are fully aware of the difficulty at the moment, and in this Parliament we have already moved how the Galician Union has acted at all times with responsibility and with rigour, because here we are talking about issues that affect legality. When we had to act through the Labour Authority in the entire ERE negotiation process, we did it. The Labour Authority made ten warnings and transferred to Alcoa the warning that it was acting or that it could act in bad faith and that it could therefore be violating the principles on which that ERE was developing, and we did so. Unfortunately, at this point, we are in a decision that has to take Alcoa, and we are fully aware that both administrations — who are working together, both the Government of Spain and the Council of Galicia — have to continue to work on the issue and on the outline of legality. So we know that there are administrative issues that affect the plant's situation from an environmental point of view and from an industrial point of view and, logically, we are working in that context. And we're not flouting, neither the Government of Spain nor the Council of Galicia, no measure, whether administrative or judicial, so we can reverse this unilateral decision that has taken Alcoa. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I think in that context is where the political forces have to develop; and, of course, this government, the Council of Galicia, is working in that direction. We, Mr. Castro, haven't come here to confront, don't count on us. And if you don't know the reality of your people, I'm very sorry, very sorry. [[Laughter]] It does not even record all the actions that have been carried out by the President of the Galician Union and the Galician Union itself. I simply refer him to the hemerothec because the Alcoa workers don't deserve me to answer him this afternoon. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u184	Thank you, Vice President. For the reply, Mr. Castro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u185	Thank you very much, President. I don't know if I know the reality of my people, but for some reason I'm day in the Alcoa factory and with the workers. I don't know if you can say the same thing. And the truth is, I see it quite wise for you -- and I hope that if you passed it on to the president of the board -- because what you came here to do was the president in the morning. And, very well; i mean, you say you don't want to answer the question, and I think it's too much, but you know that the sale is no longer possible, and it's not because I say it, say it to Alcoa himself. [[Applause]] So, that's why we ask again: will you participate in the intervention? If Alcoa follows in the same way — that we all know he's going to follow — is it going to be 20th to Galician Union with an intervention already prepared? I don't know what to say, actually, but, well... BNG has been, is, and will be, so let's ask him again: are you willing to intervene in the Alcoa factory? It's an easy answer: yes or no. We know what Alcoa's opinion is. But I want to end up giving an answer to the sailors too — since you say I don't know them and they don't deserve an answer to my question -- well, I don't know what they and they think -- I mean, you're an example and that we've been an example because we've demonstrated it and because we've shown here that there's a decent people, a people who don't bend to the capital or to any injustice. So I end by saying no -- calm down, please, and calm down! -- So, please, as I was saying -- sailors and sailors, we have to continue with this scream that led us so far, and that's why we're like this, that the Navy saves itself fighting, that we've been, we're, we're, and we're going to be, yes, Yankees, no. [[Protests.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u186	Thank you, Mr. Castro. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Mr. Novoa Iglesias speaks words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please, Mrs. Novoa. Madam Novoa, no, no... we must all be careful; I have asked everyone not to speak up. And I'm asking for it from a health point of view. No, no, don't joke about this, please. [[Murmurs.]] They're reading Dr. Gestal's interview today and they'll know what this is about, because, of course, we can't always be with this. For the reply, Mrs. Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u187	Thank you, President. Mr. Conde, I understand that answering the two questions together may lead to confusion, but I believe that at no time in my intervention I did party; it is more, I have repeatedly spoken of the unity that is now between the two administrations, of coordination, after the autonomous elections, of the two administrations, and I have even thanked him for his last statements. So I don't know where you saw the partyism I did with my intervention. You could understand that you were talking about partyism when I told you earlier that we were glad that the Galician Union had come to the theses that the Socialist Party has always defended and that the facts have highlighted, that the price of energy was just an excuse for Alcoa to conceal its decision and its objective - which is more evident today - to give rise to a relocation of production. Because, look, Alcoa said clearly — you were at that multilateral table — that even if you were given the price of energy, you were going to leave. So if the energy price isn't a problem for the buyer, I don't know why it's going to be for the seller. What we ask of the Galician Council is that, if Alcoa finally presents this collective dismissal, the Galician Union itself, through its competent labour authority, value the opportunity to see that the terms in which Alcoa is putting forward this collective dismissal procedure are being carried out in law fraud, which would imply its immediate paralysis. I recommend and suggest to the Galego Nationalist Block that we not burn unexhausted stages and that we do not break the unity that is decisive in order to get Alcoa to resist. We don't even become allies of Alcoa unintentionally diverting our attention. So what I insist on is that we all work together...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u188	Thank you, Mrs. Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u189	...to give the Navy a future.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u190	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u191	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u192	Thank you. To close these questions, the second vice-president and economic, business and innovation advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u193	Mrs. Castro, I tried to move the situation; indeed, I didn't answer it. As he insists, if I have to tell you that the Council of Galicia has never changed its position at any time, at no time. The Galician Union from the first moment has moved that the electro-intensive industry in Spain has a competitive electrical price problem. And if not, we can talk about the situation that is currently going through Celsa, that is going through Ferroatlantic or that is going through Cee-Dumbria. Surely the words you intend to move to the Alcoa situation would go against you because, indeed, in Spain there is a competitive electrical price problem in the electrointensive industries. We have not approved an electro-intensive consumer status, we do not have a stable framework for the operation of CO2 compensation mechanisms, because the Government is not yet applying to the maximum that allows the European Commission, we do not have the auction mechanism, which has already been withdrawn, and we do not know how it will replace it. There's a target problem for the set of electro-intensive companies in Spain: we don't have a competitive electric price. And you just have to go to the data. In Spain at present the electric price for the industry is 48 euros/megavatio. That same price for the same industry currently in Germany is EUR 20 per megawatt. If you understand that this is not a problem of the electrointensive industry in Spain and that in Spain we have a reality in that context, we'll probably be focusing on the situation. But, of course, the Galician Union has never changed its position at any time. The Galician Union is clear that it has only one objective, and is that Alcoa San Cibrao maintains its industrial activity and therefore keeps the 1,000 direct and indirect jobs linked to that factory. And at this point we are working together with the Government of Spain because, in fact, once they have completed the autonomous elections, and at the time that we have achieved that through the various warnings that have been taken by the Labour Authority of Galicia Alcoa agreed to negotiate with Liberty, at that time there is an action unit by the two administrations, which I thank the Government of Spain, the Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Ecological Transition, which are putting all means and all instruments to work together with the Council of Galicia and the workers to reverse a situation. So, I think we're all clear right now, the Government of Spain and the Council of Galicia, that there is only one possible path, which is to keep us side by side with the workers to prevent the paralysis of the tanks. That's where Alcoa will find us and, of course, the workers, who know they can count on the support of the Galician Union. It's true that Alcoa is in time to rectify, that's true and therefore nothing prevents him from sitting down again to negotiate to reach an agreement or nothing prevents him from closing and knowing how to go, which is what we moved him throughout the process, especially because there's a buyer who currently remains interested in making the investments and therefore remains interested in the plant. We believe that's what has to lead us to find a solution. Mr. Castro, I don't think you've been very attentive to the President's intervention this morning, because the president was quite clear when he spoke about the intervention by the two administrations. But what I would ask you to do is that when you want to talk about the intervention, firstly, do it strictly, because that will surely help to establish the debate; and the rigor what you say is that we have to let the Legal Services of State Counsel and the Legal Counsel of the Galician Council work to really believe, from the point of view of the different administrative and legal procedures, which is the best alternative we can put on the table. That should be said, Mr. Castro, the State's Juridical Services and also the Galician Union. And in that context we're working, the workers know. We, of course, are not going to discard any way to be able to give a solution that only goes by maintaining the plant's activity. And from there, logically, I would ask the Galego Nationalist Block not to confuse them, because when they want to compare the situation of Alcoa with the situation of Germany, nothing has to do with it. They come here and want to confuse by comparing the measures that are being taken in Germany with those that can be taken here, in Spain, and they know perfectly well that these Lufthansa aids are intended to inject liquidity to companies affected by the extraordinary fall of activity, which has absolutely nothing to do with the situation that Alcoa has. In fact, the Government of Spain knows that it has a similar instrument, which is the Fund to support the solvency of strategic companies, which is also authorised by the European Commission. Therefore, Mr. Castro, do not come to be confused, have already deceived the workers enough, stop fooling the people and join the action unit of the Council of Galicia and the Government of Spain just to support the workers. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u194	Thank you, Vice President. Question by Maria Elena Candia López and six other Members of the Galician People's Parliamentary Group on the measures that have been put in place in Galicia to ensure the sustainability of the public transport sector by road and to promote safe mobility
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u195	Mr. Fernández Prado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u196	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. As we all know, the situation arising from the cover-19, in addition to the obvious health consequences, is also having far-reaching social and economic consequences affecting the various sectors, including the public transport of passengers. The restrictions on mobility arising from health emergencies and the declaration of alarm status, as well as the decrease in citizens' movements, are having a strong impact on the transport sector. Territorial dispersion and population ageing emphasize the importance of public transport in Galicia to ensure citizens' right to mobility and access to basic services. With the aim of guaranteeing these rights, we also know that the Union has been re-establishing public transport services in a manner accompanied by the recovery of activity and the increase in displacements; something which, of course, we are not seeing in the same line as those that depend on the Government of Spain, both on road and rail transport, as well as on airport. However, this recovery of the offer has not yet been accompanied by the same recovery of demand, and the levels of occupation remain far away from those at the moment before the statement of the state of health emergency. Together with this, the sector has to deal with the adaptation and implementation of safety, protection and hygiene measures, both for workers and for users, to ensure, of course, that this transport is a safe mobility for all. For aware of this situation, we know that the Galician Union has adopted several measures aimed at promoting safer mobility and also trying to bring this sector closer to, transcendental — as I said — a bit of liquidity to be able to cope with this demand download, this download of users, but still to be able to provide this basic service. And I don't know if you can clarify us on that line if Galicia is still waiting for the State Covid Fund, whose breakdown I think is still pending from the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda. I don't know if you have any forecasts from the Council for when you're planning to receive these funds and how many they are. And about these close-ups of funding and advance, I don't know if we could actually figure out what they've been up to now. The members of the Group of the People's Party therefore asked the following question: What measures has the Council launched in Galicia to ensure the sustainability of the public transport sector by road and to promote safe mobility? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u197	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. Answer by the Infrastructure & Mobility Advisor, Ms. Ethel Vázquez Mourelle.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u198	Thank you, President. Well, Your Honor, since the Infrastructure and Mobility Council, we have a constant and fluid dialogue with all the transport federations, which are nearly 100 percent of the sector. It's an interlocution that we're strengthening as a result of the cave pandemic because we've seen it totally necessary. The mobility restrictions as a result of the alarm state were really very important, entailing user reductions in the transport of 95%. It's a brutal decrease of passengers, a drastic decrease. It is therefore obvious that the sustainability and viability of public transport are in danger and, of course, jobs are in danger. And if public transport is in danger and jobs are in danger, thousands of Greeks will also be in danger of accessing basic services such as education, health and all basic services, especially with special attention to rural areas. I want to take this opportunity to value the effort of the whole sector along with the Galician Union. We collaborated and worked together with contributions and commitments, which enabled us to make decisions and consistent measures, such as the progressive restoration of the road bus transport lines, the competence of the Galician Union. At this point, 100 percent of the provinces' lines are restored and at least 80% of the interprovincial lines are restored. The truth is it's a terrible shame that in railway services, of course, they don't have the same answer. The railway services in Galicia as a result of the minister's policy Mr Abalos passes from dark chestnut to Galicia. In any case, since the Galician Union we have made decisions and we will continue to take them to work for effective public transport, safe public transport. From the very first moment we were working for that safe public transport, sharing material, with a protocol of protection endorsed by the Issga, the Institute of Safety and Labour Health. Together we activate more health measures, much more than the rest of the public transport media -- well they will know -- than the train and the plane; we reactivate an outreach campaign to promote compliance with the protection regulations, thinking about that safe public transport; we promote lines and incentives and support with the Reactive program; and we also guarantee liquidity. We are forwarding 10% of the annual alarm status period, which is 2.4 million euros ahead. We also maintained the payment of EUR 2.9 million of the public service obligation last December 30 in the DOG. It's 3.62 million euros in advance. In advance of this money that doesn't come from the state, which we have to anticipate from the Unity of Galicia to have the fleet and to guarantee the jobs of public transport. And in addition to 74 million euros with New People's card added by public transport.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u199	Thank you, Counselor. He's got another round later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u200	For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u201	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u202	Thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor, for your answer. I see that, as has happened in the past legislation, the subject of transport remains a priority within the German Government and its council. I believe that last legislation we could work and see that the greatest modernization of history in transport has occurred. And I am glad that it continues to strengthen and consolidate this policy, especially with regard to rural areas. Thank you for that data provided and for that detailed investment. We share that we must try to achieve that 100 per cent overall in services and, of course, to do so with those guarantees of safety and hygiene. It is a pity that, as I said before, this is not being seen in the policies of the Government of Spain. Today we know that the bus between Ferrol and Madrid was suspended, which had three daily frequencies until today. It's no longer possible to buy these tickets and leave Ferrol offline with the capital of Spain. I sincerely believe that these kinds of decisions, because this is a state line, it's the same thing we're seeing on the railway lines, where we're losing lines, frequencies, and we also know about the face-to-face sale of tickets in the small stations. Sometimes we talk about this in the past legislation! Here they're taking advantage of an excuse like the pandemic to do now what we can stop in the other legislation. I think these aggressions that the Socialist Government makes us to the Greeks are intolerable. Because, in addition, what is most bloody is that all these cuts — because they have no other name — of the Government of Pedro Sánchez are on the lines that have the most demand on buses as well as on railways as on the airlines. And above, in addition to removing them, they remove those who have the greatest demand and interest for citizens.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u203	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u204	So we ask him to continue to support this transport we have...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u205	Thank you, your time is up. Question close, Infrastructure & Mobility advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u206	Thank you, President. Your Honor, it is a shame, but we must regret that, eight months ago since the declaration of the state of alarm, Galicia has not received a single euro of the 28.6 million euros that have committed themselves to the Covid Public Transport Compensation Fund. The fact is that this is a critical moment for the transport sector. We had to inject 6 million euros from Galician union, and we did it as a lifesaver for three targets: for the survival of businesses, jobs and also for ensuring that special public transport, essential in Galicia, especially for our rural areas. This is a lifesaver of the Galician Union, because Galicia today has not received a single euro from the Government of Pedro Sánchez, the 28.6 million committed to the Covid Public Transport Compensation Fund. And they want us to keep waiting for three months. I, of course, don't know if they're sleeping in the laurel, but I'm asking the Government of Spain, what I ask the Ministry to chair Minister Ábalos, is that they put themselves on the batteries; that they put the batteries to restore the train services and that they put the batteries to help the public transport sector, for the jobs, for the survival of businesses and also because public transport in Galicia is essential. We've already delivered all the documentation on July 8th, and it's been months; look what's happened for months: July 8th! On 21 September, I urged the Secretary-General for Transport to materialize this income due to Galicia: 28.6 million euros, for the sake of the sector, for the future of the sector, for the future of workers, for the future of public transport. And the truth is, if that effective income doesn't materialize; public transport with our peculiarities is fundamental; geographic dispersion, our situation, makes it essential in our rural environment. And the central government's answer — I have it here — last day 5, is to keep waiting. I insist that the batteries be put on, because parsimonia helps nothing, and less in the middle of the pandemic, because the public transport sector in Galicia needs to make that income that has been committed. We regret the abandonment of the central government; we will continue to work. The truth is that the Government of Pedro Sánchez does keep it slightly to dismantle the railway service and also slightly to leave a strategic sector like public transport on the stake. And we will continue to claim that compensatory fund for public transport because it is owed to Galicia 28.6 million euros. And we will continue to demand them for the future of the sector, for the workers in the sector, and because public transport in Galicia by bus is essential. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u207	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Da Teresa Egerique Mosquera and seven other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, about the valuation made by the Galician Union of the implementation of the Galician Metropolitan Transport Plan in the metropolitan area of Vigo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u208	You have the floor to Mrs. Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u209	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Vigo is a city that in recent years has changed its flow of movement because there have been actions and infrastructures that demanded it. The great public hospital Álvaro Cunquerio, in Beade-Valadares, gave traffic and greater life to that area, which is a place of passage and also towards the technological park, access to VG-20 or even university. We can also talk about the growth of Vigo towards the south with the PAU of Navia, where the youngest population resides, not only of Vigo but of all Galicia; it is the most populous neighborhood of Vigo as well. These new social realities and greater peonalization of the central areas require adequate public transport, unlike 13 years ago. A public transport that adapts to the new mobility flows of Vigo's neighbours and their metropolitan area, because there are also more and more people who choose to live in the municipalities around the city. So the vicars need a modern, axile and comfortable public transport; anything contrary to what we have in town. In Vigo we have a transport service that wouldn't say it's from the 20th century, I would say it's from the 19th century, because it didn't evolve with the city and it remained in an obsolete and expensive transport, very expensive, that it doesn't cover in lines or frequently the most common needs of Vigo citizens, especially of the parishes and neighborhoods away from the center, which are really the ones that use it most for their management, purchases, health and leisure. We have on the table a vertical Vigo project that forgets and razes with the city's architectural heritage, which sometimes doesn't respond properly to the slippages that may exist in certain neighborhoods, but we have an abandonment of public transport, we don't have an urban transport plan. Unlike other Spanish cities of the same size, or even smaller and less dispersed, Vigo has not advanced in urban transport in fifteen years; it takes exactly the same then. While the large infrastructures of the Galician Union — it must also be said — change the reality of life and change — as I said — mobility flows. By its band, the implementation of the Metropolitan Transport Plan in Galicia, with the desire to integrate into all cities, was important and brought very positive results to the territories and users. I've said several times that, apart from the administrations, Vigo's neighbors and their neighbouring municipalities, we've already lived in a metropolitan way, because we've moved to the municipalities with a lot of normality. There is only one person who doesn't understand it; one person who is Abel Caballero, the mayor himself, who instead of looking at the future, promoting openness and flow between territories, remains in the last century — as I said — or in the 19th century and chooses to close the city. [[Murmurs.]] And every time she does that, the justice tells her not to. He also tried to make a parking space just for bottlenecks in Vigo, a parking lot next to Álvaro Cunqueiro. He said it in 2018 and he can't do it, because law and justice won't let him do it. So, and then I'll deepen further on these issues, Counsellor, what we want to know now are the benefits that the application of metropolitan transport brought to the vigues, aside from Abel Caballero depriving the citizens of Vigo of applying it in urban areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u210	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. Response from the Infrastructure & Mobility Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u211	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I can say that the Galician Union makes an unequivocal bet on public transport, on more modern public transport, on safer and quality public transport and on more sustainable mobility. As we understand mobility as a right, it is an obligation for administrations to facilitate that right to mobility. And we also intend to do it in the best way possible, and there we understand it because with the least possible impact on the pockets of the Greeks. So we add to our goals and qualifications of modern, safe and quality public transport, also of economics, because we care about the pockets of the Greeks. Saving in a service as basic as necessary we see it as essential, and facilitating that economic aid is social support, because we are talking about a genuine social plan for public transport, promoting public transport and economic advantages for all families. A public transport that approaches us everywhere, like going to college, going to school, to work, to health centers, together with families, with friends. Public transport is essential in Galicia. These objectives and all this work are embedded in the Galician Public Transport Plan. A metropolitan public transport plan that is operating in the Coruña, in Santiago, in Lugo, also in the area of Vigo. But in the area of Vigo without the head council, as we all know. In the case of Vigo area, they know that in April 2015 we agreed with twelve municipalities the implementation of this Metropolitan Transport Plan, including river transport. And the truth is that river transport has very positive, tremendously positive data, because 40% of the displacements are by boat and with subsidised trips. Therefore, very positive valuation. To this point is the positive assessment of the Metropolitan Transport Plan in the area of Vigo that we recently renewed and agreed between the twelve municipalities to continue extending this Metropolitan Transport Plan to the year 2021. And we do it to Junta and the municipalities, the sweet town halls of the hand, bringing new advantages and continually renewing us. You know: the New People's card in 2016, for those under 19 years of age; a card that we increased in 2020 to facilitate free public transport for children under 21 years of age, which we will extend to throughout Galicia. Also with that line rearrangement to give more coverage. We'll reach at the end of this year an increase of 63%. And above all the rating is tremendously positive because seventy thousand families are using this metropolitan card that allows savings of up to six hundred euros a year, which Vigo had entered would be one thousand. And we have to think about the German pocket. And also say that 16,600 young people under the age of 21 have this New People's card. So you have to think about the Greek pocket. And this is thanks to the biggest investment in Together...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u212	Quiet, Mrs. Abelairas!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u213	...for the metropolitan transport of Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u214	I heard it, but it was a little bit. [[Murmurs.]] That's it. Silence! Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u215	...safe and modern and, of course, accessible to the beams.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u216	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u217	Thank you, Counselor. The truth is I was saying in my previous intervention that Abel Caballero once again lost in the matter of transportation in the courts, but he doesn't want to acknowledge it. Abel Caballero wanted to discriminate the urban transport users against the Pass Vigo card, and justice told him not, mainly because the Constitution prohibits discrimination on grounds of origin. Abel Caballero should remember what he was and was always Vigo, an open city, aperturist, a welcoming one, who welcomed Abel, also welcomed him, who, by the way, came from a county of the metropolitan area. Must have little memory! And not only the Constitution, Counselor, but also the Land Transport Management Act, which drafted Abel Knight himself in 1987. What a little memory and how much it hurts the city and the neighbors! A man who declared himself immensely happy for a merger and now totally rejects it. What a short memory Abel Caballero has! Justice also told him not to intend to launch a metropolitan area at the letter, without taking into account metropolitan transport. Justice has made it clear: the metropolitan area cannot operate without metropolitan transport. God gave the common sense, gave the law and gave justice. The most curious and funny thing is that when he met the sentence, one of his shrieks, Abel Caballero decided to present a motion at Vigo City Hall to amend the law of the metropolitan area. A law that was unanimously passed in this parliament; he stood in the rostrum and applauded her as the most. What a short memory Abel Caballero has! He later signed with the Galician Union the metropolitan transport agreement to integrate that plan into metropolitan transport, and did not apply it. Again the lack of memory! Abel Knight has no escape in this matter. You can have one, which is to throw Feijó at him the guilt of everything, which for the fourth time, by the way, won the elections in Vigo, and to say that the judgments that tell him not to him are barbarians for the board... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u218	Quiet, please. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u219	...or go out as it comes out today with a more Christmas event to avoid other topics. The false localisms and the anachronistic and obsolete posture of Abel Caballero in the middle of the transport achieved one thing, Counselor: that the vigues, the families of Vigo we lost four years of discounts and paid for Galicia's most expensive transport...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u220	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u221	...excluding the advantages of the Metropolitan Transport Plan. That's why, Counsellor, I ask you, what advantages would we have for Vigo's neighbours to be integrated in the metropolitan transport of Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u222	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. Question close, Infrastructure & Mobility advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u223	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I reiterate that the assessment of the metropolitan transport in the area of Vigo is tremendously positive. In five years, 86,000 neighbors in the Vigo area have saved seven million euros thanks to metropolitan transport. Seven million euros! I said it quickly, but it's actually seven million euros. And the fact is that in the case of the Vigo Council is certainly very particular and unique, because in July 2016 it agrees to integrate into the Metropolitan Transport Plan, and in May 2017, suddenly, it denounces the agreement on the effective exit of the metropolitan transport, and for a few days we have known that sentence that gives reason to the Galician Union: that the Vigo metropolitan area cannot operate without metropolitan transport. And he doesn't tell Junta, he doesn't say Ethel, he gave justice, that the metropolitan area can't work without metropolitan transport. Vigo is free to do whatever he wants, but I think he should think about traffic, pollution, noise and the pocket of the beams. Vigo is what I should be thinking about, in the pocket of the beams, because it's who you owe.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u224	Mrs. Abeleiras, I've heard it now. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u225	It is undeniable that the Vigo Council's stance is preventing very important bonuses and huge advantages to the vigues for not entering metropolitan transport. Because if Vigo entered and Vigo decided to re-enter, the discounts would be substantially increased. I insist again: thanks to metropolitan transport, Vigo's neighbours save six hundred euros a year. If Vigo came in, it would be a thousand euros a year. Six hundred or a thousand? I think the pocket of the beams well deserves to correct and think a little about this matter. There's a very graphic example. A neighbor of Vigo who wants to travel to Aldan, pick up the urban bus, take the boat, the bus to Aldan, because with metropolitan transport today the discount is 52%; if Vigo had entered, the discount would have been 71%. Therefore, the benefits are undeniable. Ladies and gentlemen, rectification is wise, especially in this case. I don't understand that it's going to be the other way around. But each one who draws his conclusion. I hope that these personalisms will be forgotten, that personalisms will be put aside, that Vigo will be added to get discounts of up to a thousand euros of public transport, because today they are only six hundred and can be a thousand euros a year if the Vigo Town Hall enters. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u226	Thank you, Counselor. Question from Noa Presas Bergantiños and four other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to prevent the worsening or abolition of the CEIP school dining service The Mercedes, of Ourense
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u227	You have the floor to Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u228	Thank you, President. Before you leave, Mrs Vázquez, the Ourenses also want metropolitan transport. Tell the lethal mayor and the previous mayor to stop blocking it. [[Applause]] Since we are, finally! Today, Mr. Teaching Counsellor, we want to tell you about the situation that is being experienced in the Mercedes CEIP, in the centre of Ourense, by the blockade that Galician Union has subjected it to. Families are living with concern the pandemic — which I also want to take advantage of this moment to send all our best wishes to the population of Ourense — but they are also concerned, above all, about the lack of functions that the Galician Union has had since the beginning of school. This CEIP is the only public in the centre of Ourense, and the only one who has a dining room. And by the way, thanks to the effort of the ANPA Pea da Casca, which we would also like to thank for your work. [[Applause]] This center has a lot of space limitations. Something that the Galician Union knows, which today knows about its protests, but which it knew yesterday too, because, firstly, for years, they've been claiming an improvement in spaces and, secondly, you know that for years they've also been providing this dining service thanks to their signing an agreement with Social Policy so that they can use the public facilities of the Florentine López Cuevillas Youth Residence, which depends on Social Policy. But two councils together, theirs and Mrs. Fabiola García's, were unable to help these families, and what they did was quite the opposite: blocking the situation. They waited until August 28th, just a few days before the classrooms started again, to tell them that the shared use of the facilities was not ratified this year, that collaboration protocol. In addition, they did, out of the afternoon, evil and drag, without any kind of collaborative attitude to help find a solution, some kind of means, such as, for example, changing the reforms they would make in the chapel, such as, for example, setting turns in that dining room or, for example, trying to look in collaboration with that council, directed by a lethal lord thanks to the votes of the People's Party, some other space. The consequences are that they have to give up the use of the library, which had been improved, that they have to use it to eat, and that they also have to use classes that are very small. And the consequences of all this, Counselor, is that it's the center with the greatest incidence of the coward of all of Galicia. Yesterday you assumed in this gallery that most centers had one case or two, in many cases brothers, for classes. This isn't the case in this center, where half of a 5th grade class has been positive. Counselor, we need an alternative. I ask you today two things: first, to apologize to the families and, second, that since Galician Union feel with them looking for a solution. In a city with so many empty buildings and facilities there has to be an alternative, and you have to help get it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u229	Thank you, your time is up. Reply by the Councillor for Culture, Education and University.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u230	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The truth is, this center, which is a public centre, which has around 160 students, which has very complex architectural characteristics, because it's in the center of the city, it serves a dining service, managed by ANPA, as a conciliation service that basically serves 50 people. Traditionally, for about 15 years, through an agreement between ANPA and the Social Policy Council, students moved to a dining room in this centre of Florentine Cuevillas, of Social Policy. Obviously, in ordinary conditions it was so, and it would have continued to be so. It must be said that, in this case, the residence itself, where there are students, where there are boys and girls who pay for being there, who have some rights to be there, because it was in some way necessary to make dining shifts in this residential center, who were shocked at the intentions, in this case, of the ANPA. It's not true that you hadn't talked to ANPA; here's the ex-Deputy of Galician Union. There is evidence that there were several meetings with the ANPA, which were offered alternatives, possibilities and that it was impossible to reach a meeting point. I suppose when there's a negotiation where you can't reach a meeting point, you always have a little responsibility on all sides. In any case, an alternative was proposed, which is the use of the library, and also the use of a series of spaces within the educational center to provide a dining room service, which is being given with some normality. And I think it's quite risky and quite cheerful -- if I may say so -- to try to make a direct correlation between one aspect, between the dining room service and the contagions in this center. It's actually one of the centers where there was a higher numerical density of people affected. But to make a statement like the one you're trying to make, legitimately bringing water to your sardine—for I'm sorry, in return for so many parliamentary interventions because they already make us a little out of focus—because I think that's a very happy statement, and I don't know if you have any data that can corroborate it. And if I don't think you should abstain from getting into those rubies. Because it really makes such a grave statement as the one that has just made questioning health decisions in this area, because it is frankly a parliamentary joy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u231	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u232	Mr. Rodríguez, allow me to tell you that what is a fear is to pretend that with a center with very limited physical characteristics you want children under the age of 8 or 9 years in any case take their meals, take their midmorning tomorrow by removing the masks in those small facilities and that nothing happens. That is indeed a fear, for a very clear question: because you knew that there was a pandemic to be managed since March 14, and it was August 28, after it was July 26 when the order came out with the squares of that Florentine Cuevillas residence, and you already knew that occupation would arbitrate there, when they telephoned the ANPA's unilateral decision, of Education and Social Policy, and at no time sought to give an alternative to families who had not been using the library. [[Applause]] That's not a negotiation, that's an imposition, and an irresponsible imposition, Mr. Rodríguez. [[Applause]] If you will, let me also take the word of the former territorial chief of Ourense and give explanations. Because, in fact, it would be pretty good if they'd given detailed explanations of why this unfair treatment with CEIP The Mercedes, when families and teachers were involved from the very first moment and when they could look for alternatives to provide more space. Or when you can try to reach some kind of agreement with the residents' users and users to set up some kind of turn or to set them up, which are adult people and which can shift, some kind of alternative, that I'm sure you'd understand. That's what families expect. What's clear is that we can't go on in this CEIP with the same situation as the rest of the course, depending on luck, because families don't want chance, they want support from the board of Galicia, and that's what they're demanding. It's as simple as that, Mr. Rodríguez: the administration must be a collaborator of public education and not hinder...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u233	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Time's up, Mrs. Presas, time's up. Close the question, Culture, Education and University advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u234	Madam spokesperson, who speaks on behalf of the families of this educational center, or at least part of the families, and since he talks about alternatives, it would be nice to tell us what they are, which they put on the table, because it was probably as easy as you said it would be, no doubt. Or do you think that the management team, or do you think that the inspection, or do you think that the territorial headsets, both social policy and education, or do you think that the Galician Senate Provincial Delegation in Ourense wouldn't have made decisions in favour of this situation if there were as cheerful alternatives as you say? Look: it's a survival situation, it's a situation that obviously depends on the situation derived from the pandemic. The dining room is already functioning normally, it is already serving normally, it eats students from all classes in that dining room, in the different dining rooms, from all classes; it eats about one third of students in that center. And really the situation in this case of the Florentine Cuevillas residence makes it impossible that a service normally rendered cannot be rendered. We have to be all flexible, and we can't think that absolutely nothing happens, and we have to know where we are and what we are doing. And really with statements as cheerful as you are, making direct correlations really very questionable and very difficult to defend, or considering that there were alternatives, trying to say that nothing was done, when there was a direct contact in this case with the ANPA, because I really don't know what the motivation of this question is, rather than trying to make some noise or somehow try to pose a political problem where it doesn't exist. There was a problem arising from a change in stage. There's a solution, which is not the best, probably not the best, but consider, which has so much contact with the educational community and with the ANPA, an alternative. If you bring us here an alternative saying that we can do this, you will study the ANPA or anyone else. But I'm sure it's been sought everywhere, and the solution that seemed more coherent because it's what it's doing. We must regret the health situation that this centre is suffering, as other Ourenses are suffering. We're in town, unfortunately, with the worst health situation. And this center, an educational center, because it's a bit the reflection of the outline in which it is located. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u235	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and three other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the views of the Government of Greece regarding the possible impact on the quality of public education of the alternatives offered to the student of the College of Child Education and Primary Frei Luis de Granada, of Sarria
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u236	Mrs. Aira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u237	Good afternoon. First of all, greet the people who come from Sarria and are in the room seeing us. Since the BNG we are very concerned about the situation in which the children and children of CEIP Luis de Granada, of Sarria, are in the middle of 2019, since the centre appeared every day full of punctuality. Despite the obvious risk this posed to the student, also the cracks, which motivated the spikes to be placed, the board did nothing until the families began to mobilize by claiming measures to ensure the safety of their daughters and children. As a patch, the Galician board decided to reposition a part of the student in the school-home; an old building that does not meet by far the minimum conditions required to house a teaching center. It does not meet virtually any of the conditions required in Royal Decree 132/2010 of 12 February, of minimum conditions of educational centres. Because there are no health conditions, no accessibility conditions, no comfort conditions, plus lack of school courtyard, lack of gymnasium, lack of library. The question is that the situation has already begun, because there is no license for works for school, it is not certain that the municipality can grant it, there are one hundred and fifty creatures who are in this building that do not meet the minimum conditions to be a teaching center. A patch that doesn't solve the problem, as well as the works provided by the Education Council in Frei Luis will solve the problem this building has. The only thing that is known at this point is that without intervening in the structure, as the technical services of the counsellor's office have been able to say after the platforms and the committees and the parents and their mothers have pressed them a lot, you can't know how the structure is without making notes, tests and geotechnical studies. Therefore, the viability of the works will only be known once this is done. So the school-home solution is not temporary, this goes for a long time, for a very long time. Counsellor, what you need and to whom you are entitled, the student of this center, the only public school in Sarria -- you have to underline it -- and in general the whole of the village, is a new education center of the 21st century, adapted to the reality and needs of the present and future student. They don't need patches. Do you think Gallica's board that the alternatives offered to the CEIP student Frei Luis de Granada are suitable for quality public education, in this case, in Sarria?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u238	Thank you, Mrs. Aira. Reply by the Councillor for Culture, Education and University.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u239	Thank you very much again, Mr. President. This school, as you know very well, has two buildings: an educational building and another known as the school-home, which is a student residence and which last year has been adapted, have made reforms to be able to make an educational use there. Well, in January 2020, a rehabilitation project for this educational centre was put in place, a number of issues were identified that at no time compromised security but that if they required rehabilitation, and the decision was adopted to propose a comprehensive rehabilitation project for this centre's building, and started with the relevant administrative procedures. Also, — and here is something very important — with the agreement of the educational community, what is proposed is to transfer students from the Frei Luis building in Granada to two buildings to run at the moment as an interim solution to the works. In this case, students of 4th, 5th and 6th primary students move to IES Xograr Afonso Gomez and 1st, 2nd and 3rd primary students to home school. Obviously, school-home is not how you say you don't do it; if you haven't met, I don't think the centre's management team is so irresponsible, except what you're saying, or that inspection teams are as irresponsible as possible. It's a dialectic joy that you put here saying it doesn't work because the management teams and inspection services, of course, I'm sure they've authorized this spatial change or transfer, and they'd take it into account. In any case, the necessary adaptation works have been done, and the course is developing with great normality and without any problems. This is an interim solution while the packaging works are carried out in Luis de Granada, and the students — as I say — are divided between these two centers. I think from there, what you say isn't going to be licensed, I can tell you this morning I spoke to the mayor, and the mayor doesn't tell me that. I don't know who to listen to, whether you, the mayor, you, the educational community, you, the inspection, the directors. Your Honor, be careful and do not sound alarm.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u240	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Aira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u241	I'd like to be able to make some jokes with what the counselor just said, but I'm going to waste my time explaining what matters. In any case, I try to be cheerful in most of my life as far as I can. [[Applause]] Well, I can understand the meaning of your answer. I suppose you're saying what you have to say, but no one can deny the periployment of what mothers and parents have been through, simply to preserve the integrity and health of their children and children. Together she always pretended to show that nothing happened, she hid information, semi-reported. They only changed their mind about the pressure of the platform and the work tracking commission, which had to be made counter-reported so that the technicians of their own board had changed, and they changed because they had no more remedy. For you kids, they'd be in the high school right now, huh? Which says the school-home meets the requirements. Well, I'm going to tell you what they tell me and what I firmly believe: it's got a lead pipe; the kids are told they don't drink from the bathroom balls, which is practically impossible to control. As far as I know, they were in the playground in a public park discovered, but the funny thing is that that park was worth gymnasium too. Now that it's raining and it's cold, I don't know what they're gonna do. The only thing that this school is about is that the windows' vanes ensure that the ventilation air is renewed to comply with the covered protocol. [[Applause]] From the BNG we will accompany and continue to accompany the families, which they will have to say because they are their daughters and children, in demand for a public school with a new building, in conditions worthy of all the students while that building is not built. They already made patches for him in 2011, and they certainly didn't work for anything, that we're here. They offered them not to go to school-foming mobile classes and they would lend them the Town Hall the land. They didn't talk, they didn't accept anything. They're in the most absolute of the homework.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u242	Thank you, Mrs. Aira. Close the question, Culture, Education and University advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u243	Madam, you say "tell me," you tell her. I have inspection reports here. Let's see who we listen to? [[Murmurs.]] I insist: Who do we listen to? Do we listen to the block or do we listen to the technicians? [[Applause]] Do we pay attention to the Block or do we pay attention to the educational community of that center? See who's lying? Those who tell you... No, no, no, it's just to see who's lying, if the ones who give you the information or the other information you know? [[Murmurs.]] Maybe you just think the families are right to tell them what you want to hear. And then you're absolutely right. But it gives you the feeling that you're going through the analysis of technicians, it gives you the feeling that it's about the educational community and about that in the center. Because, in any case, this decision was made with the agreement of the educational community, and it is a temporary, temporary situation while the works are being done. And you'll know one thing, or you should know: there's a project of nearly 1.3 million euros of integral rehabilitation in that center. That project of that center is already dedicated to a company, to run the project in six months, and it's just waiting to have the license — I spoke to the mayor this morning — so that we can start working, in the course that comes to solve this situation. But — I insist — it would be very good to know what their sources are, because their sources really give us a great contradiction...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u244	Please, Mr. Aira. Please! Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u245	Madam... don't be angry, don't be angry... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u246	Take it easy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u247	...I'll ask the technicians to inform me if they're right or if they're BNG. Don't worry, I will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u248	Thank you. Question by Mr Miguel Állado Filgueira and six other Members of the G.P. Most popular of Galicia, about the initiatives developed by the Institute for Labour Safety and Health in Galicia to prevent the risks arising from the covid-19 pandemic
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u249	Mr. Balseiro Orol has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u250	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Allow me, Mr President, that my first words of this legislation in the highest institution in Galicia, the Parliament, to be very successful in wishing Mrs Employment and Equality Counsellor. I'm sure it will be, that the success of the Counsellor will be the success of all the Greeks and all the Greeks, because I know something about her professional trajectory, and I wouldn't qualify her as good, but she would qualify as excellent. Counsellor, as you well know, the coronavirus pandemic has had and is having a very relevant impact on all areas of our society, also on the day-to-day basis of our businesses, our own companies and our businesses, but generally in all economic and social activities. Which forced you to redesign the security measures that apply before, during and after work attendance. The priority, Counsellor, is still to safeguard our health, and that's why we must pay particular attention to safety at work. Here, too, our autonomous community, the Government of Galicia, Galicia, has anticipated, and that is why since the People's Group we are aware that the German Government during the most acute phases of health emergency and confinement has worked hard in the reactivation of the economy so that it can be produced with maximum security assurances in all sectors. Therefore, the Galician Union anticipated the urgency of the situation and the need to give a quick and operational response to the doubts that arose in a continually changing scenario. In this sense, he highlighted the activity of the Galician Institute of Labour Safety and Health, as his lordships know, dependent on the Galician Union. It was very relevant to the work of Issga in the exercise of its function of information and dissemination in the prevention of work risks. It has thus drawn up in these months multiple public access documents, which collect basic preventive recommendations that should be taken into account in the workplaces and in many activities, complementing and safely incorporating the information of the health authorities of the covid-19. To deepen on this issue, Counsellor, the majority group of this chamber, the People's Group, asked him the following question: What initiatives has Issga developed to anticipate the occupational risks of the pandemic of coward 19? Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u251	Thank you very much, Mr. Balsairo. Reply by the Employment and Equality Counsellor, Ms. Maria Jesús Lorenzana Somoza.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u252	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Balsairo, I begin by thanking the formulation of this question, since it gives us a footing from the German Government to highlight the exemplary performance that has been carried out since the Galician Institute of Labour Safety and Health, the Issga, and for all these complex months of the pandemic. In this way, the Galician Union, through the Institute, worked tirelessly to enable economic reactivation with maximum security assurances in all sectors. The board was set from the zero minute at the disposal of those who needed it. So we design diagnostic and analysis measures, on the one hand, and on the other, we implement action plans aimed at readapting and decreasing the effects of covid. Especially what's marked and what's going to mark our performance is and it's going to be prevention. As our president said at the investment session, prevention is the most valuable thing we have to protect ourselves while in the world there is no effective vaccine or treatment. In this sense, since the Autonomic Administration we have been developing different preventive measures aimed at safeguarding the safety and health of workers and workers in Galicia. Of course this is — as I say to you — the work done by Issga because, as you well know, ladies and gentlemen, the body responsible within the autonomous administration for collaboration, the development and dissemination of technical information on prevention — in this case against the pandemic in our community — is precisely this institute. In this context, the Institute has carried out decisive advisory activities on various matters that are within the competence of the Italian Government. The Institute's framework for action is summarized in five areas: the preparation of technical documentation, specialized technical assistance, coordination with other management units, the care of consultations and participation in media and congresses. Within these five areas, I would like to highlight the most important actions he has developed during the pandemic: on the one hand, he has provided advice to the various Greek councils in the development of specific protocols and guidelines for action, as well as in the specific field of labour recoporation, in collaboration with the Council of Economics, Employment and Industry; in the development of technical criteria for work in construction and reform work, with the Council of Infrastructure and Mobility; in technical advice for the development of manuals for application to shelter, in collaboration with Culture and Tourism; in technical advice on the prevention and extinction of fires, in collaboration with the Council of the Rural Environment. Secondly, we must not forget the presence of Issga in bodies of institutional participation such as the Galego Council for Occupational Safety and Health or the Bureau of the Self-Employment. And lastly, we have to refer to collaboration and technical advice in different areas of the Italian industrial fabric: with the cluster of automotive, construction, naval or forestry; with Asime, with PSA or with Finsa in the development of the Continence Plan of companies associated with them; more than forty guides and protocols on safety and occupational health specific to different sectors, such as the trade sector, the taxi sector, hairdressers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u253	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u254	...pharmaceuticals, supermarkets...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u255	He's got another round later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u256	Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u257	Replica, Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u258	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Counselor. Allow me on behalf of the People's Group, so that you can pass it on to all the workers and workers in Issga, our recognition for the effort and work they have done in these past months and for the work they are making right now, of what you have just given a good account in this chamber. You know that Galicia anticipated health, but — you just said too — Galicia also anticipated work security, resolving doubts and offering certainty where other administrations gave silence in response. Thank you for all this work done, in this case, to Issga, which allowed our companies, that our self-employed ones, that our traders, but ultimately, the workers and the Greek workers could develop their activity in safer conditions in this sense. The Union was an ally at the toughest moments of the pandemic and continues to seal it up right now, but it is only necessary to visit the Issga website, observe the various seminars and attend the countless numbers of queries resolved on the phones and emails that have been enabled for the purpose to be aware of the utility and service provided by the Issga staff these months. For which, Counselor, I sincerely believe that Galicia is safer because Galicia has anticipated. And from the Popular Group, from the majority group of this camera, that's the line we should follow. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u259	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo. Close this question, Employment and Equality advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u260	Thank you, Member. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have just mentioned in my speech, in fact, there are many and very varied measures that are being developed, which are being developed from Issga to deal with coward-19. In addition to collaboration in the preparation of technical documentation, protocols and guides, many of the consultations were answered; about seven hundred consultations in the area of the pandemic are recorded and answered by Issga. Finally, Issga showed a high level of technical expertise, while taking into account its cross-cutting nature as a reference body in the area of job risk prevention, supporting a new and exceptional situation to the business fabric and society in general, developing and disseminating the preventive recommendations for all sectors and economic activities I have just mentioned. On the one hand, administrative coordination has been highlighted, and very specifically coordination with the health authority by Issga, and, on the other hand, collaboration has been established with social agents through the many sectoral documents which have responded to the consultations made by them. The philosophy of this work has been and will always be in a dual sense: firstly, it is to help small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employment, to develop, as I say, guides and protocols by sectors and activities, thereby increasing the safety of workers and workers. Secondly, try to increase technical and scientific knowledge in preventive matters, especially in the field of industrial hygiene and occupational medicine. No more, I would like to end this intervention by reaffirming the commitment of the council to which I represent progressing in measures that bet on the prevention and support of all workers in Galicia. This is my intervention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u261	Thank you, Counselor. Question by D. Julio Torrado Quintela, from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the assessment made by the Government of Galicia of the current situation of Galicia in view of the grotesque of the coward-19
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u262	Mr. Torrado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u263	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor. We asked you today about the measures you will take with regard to the situation of the outbreaks that are in existence; particularly the situation that we are living in Ourense and that we are seeing. We are aware that governments are facing difficult situations and therefore know that from our point of view we will support the measures necessary to curb the pandemic. That's what's relevant and that's what we should devote our efforts to. We also transmit to you, in addition to waiting for the answers you give us, our desire that this government to which you are incorporated let you take those measures. Because until now, the truth is, this government has been more concerned about the story than about health. And this is a problem that concerns us because your arrival can change that, and we aspire to do so. Let me make a reference to why we support this idea. There is a problem in several areas with regard to dealing with the pandemic; firstly, with means. You had to paint Mr. President's face when he said here in the last full that there was no possibility of defining how many trackers there were in Galicia because it was not a person but a function. After the president had said that there were 6,108 to fill his chest in the midst of an election campaign, which is evidence — for you surely told the truth — that he told the lie. We have a problem with the PCR. There are workers in this parliament who get PCR messages they haven't done. Some people make PCRs that don't get their messages. There are health areas that make PCR close contacts, there are others that don't. We have a coordination problem. Since July 12th, I will no longer ask why Cecop hasn't met again. But if I'm going to ask you — since you talked here in advance, even in the previous question, that you had nothing to do with it — about anticipation: two months since the elections to form government, two months! We should have had no pandemic or emergency, for a few days to start the course to change the summit of the Education Council, the Health Counsellor, the Director General of Public Health, the manager of Sergas, the Director General of Major Residences. A self-amendment to the whole. We have an information problem. Giving the data by municipalities was extremely dangerous, said Feijóo, to promise that he would give them, for a week later he would be without them, to say that he was sorry but that he would give them again, to continue without them. And while we've been reading them every morning for a month and a half, thanks to a good journalistic work, and -- I'm sorry to say -- someone leaks them. Someone's leaking them too. I'm not going to ask for the serological study in which 100,000 tests were dilapidated when they were very necessary, and then to have some conclusions from which we never knew again the elections passed. You're talking about collaboration. They had a state of alarm, they didn't like it, they voted against it; then it didn't exist, they asked for it; then they offered them to call themselves, they said they were stadiums. And all to finish last week going to a Territorial Council to make shackles of the worst epidemiologist in this country, which is Mrs. Ayuso. Between health and Ayuso, they voted Ayuso; between Galicia and Ayuso, they voted Ayuso; between citizenship and Ayuso, they voted with Ayuso. And in total, why? So this week, a week after everything they said, they have to do what the Ministry told them to do. [[Applause]] Will you be allowed to take the necessary measures, Counselor?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u264	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Answer from the Health Counsellor, Mr. Julio García Comesaña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u265	Good morning, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Torado, I'll turn my back on you when you talk, excuse me. I take this opportunity to publicly welcome you for your recent appointment as Health Secretary in the PSdG Secretariat, replacing Dr. Evaristo Rodríguez. A possibility that I hope will allow us to open a fruitful channel of communication. With that very desire for honest interaction, I answer your question about the situation of the groars in Galicia. His question was recorded on 12 August, and it is true that today the Welsh epidemiological situation is far from getting exponentially worse. The weekly average of new daily cases is stabilized, with a certain downward trend since the end of August. And this is precisely the case because the Union acts in front of the grotesques, as we have just demonstrated today with the measures taken in Ourense. As you know, both the gromine concept and response measures are perfectly defined in the protocol that the Union developed in May and adjusted in the new normality later in June. Since we consider a collection of three cases by gromine, because, of course, in Galicia this time since the end of the alarm state there were hundreds of grotes, but the vast majority were controlled and contained before they forced extraordinary restraining measures. In total, Junta has so far implemented restrictive measures in a total of forty-eight municipalities, and in thirty-three of these measures have already reverted and were lifted after the Clinical Committee had assessed the fulfilment of its task. In particular, today, 50 municipalities will be incorporated from this evening into these restrictive measures. The average duration of restrictive measures in these municipalities I have just commented on was eighteen days. I mean, the measures that Junta applies to the most complicated grotes with the support of the Clinical Committee work and give results in most cases in less than a month. Mr. Torrado, there's a colleague of his militancy, the president of the Principality of Asturias, who said in a message to the citizenry that they looked at Galician data as an image of hope, because our epidemiological evolution — specified in Mr. Barbon's words — is possible to improve it when the right measures are taken. In that sense, it is true that the official data from the Ministry corroborate this statement from your partner. With data from now even in the afternoon, Galicia is with 104.5 cases diagnosed per 100,000 inhabitants in the last 14 days, under the national average, which is 273, and only above Canary Islands with 97.24 and Valencia with 100.42. The same is true of the positivity rate of PCR tests, where we meet according to the Ministry at 4.3%, which converts Galicia into the second autonomous community with a lower rate of positivity behind Asturias. And it's not because we do few PCRs, because these days we beat the record, with more than six thousand eight hundred evidences made in one day, and considering that, for now, the Ministry does not count the pooling that is done in Galicia as evidence, but it continues to group from twenty to twenty. Finally, in your question about assessing the evolution of the current situation in Galicia and the existing hails, I have to say that when technical criteria are applied...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u266	Thank you, Counselor. He's got another round later. Thank you. [[Applause]] Replica, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u267	Thank you, President. You know, Counselor, that there's only good intentions, it's always good to keep that channel of communication. In fact, as I told you at first, we are fully aware that the situation is difficult, impossible, unpredictable in many situations and that governments make decisions as they can with the best of will. We're aware. Look: you have taken a good example, and you won't see the President of Asturias speak ill of Galicia; as you won't see, because he doesn't see us speaking badly about the decisions they're taking, which are now taking in Ourense, because they're well taken, if they're going to slow down the pandemic. That's a reasonable plan. Because we believe that governments have to make decisions that are already difficult for them. So unless it's a very strange matter, we all need to jump in the same direction. And on that path you will always find the PSdeG and the Socialist Party throughout Spain. Let me contrast you with the example you were setting. You guys a week ago broke the burden, the lack of it and the lack of it against the Ministry of Health, and today they're making the decisions they voted against a week ago. Of course, I am very glad that we set an example for the President of Asturias; I would be so glad that I would prefer to have Asturias' data. [[Applause]] It's more: I'd rather have professional ratios per patient in Asturias. It's more: I'd rather have spending per inhabitant on Asturias' health. And much more: I'd rather have the primary care that Asturias has. It's because I'd rather have the President of Asturias than the President of Galicia. [[Applause]] But it's true, Mr. Counsellor, that it seems — I tell you in advance — that you too, because there curiously also asked you by the trackers and also said it wasn't a function that you could not look at exactly. Curiously, this didn't happen here. In any case, we agree with all the measures. What we're saying is that I wish you'd let them have them. Because if they've won the election here, but it's true that there are people who may think it's not good to sell coherence to buy a story even if they're winning elections. That's what he did.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u268	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[Applause]] Close the question, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u269	Mr Torrado, Galicia has nothing against the fact that the Ministry of Health takes the measures it creates appropriate in the Community of Madrid, what we ask is that the pacts with the Government of Madrid, and does not intend to impose on them the other governments and other autonomys. It does not seem to us that the way to act is to send a document in the morning, or the day before that, and to expect that after the Alerts' Forum will refuse to value the document because it has no technical criteria, or that in the Public Health Commission seven communities will vote against, two will abstain, 9-9, and in the afternoon one will seek a vote, the first time that this is not a subject by consensus in the Council. [[Applause]] We told the Ministry what we told him when he proposed these three measures was not that it was not necessary to take measures in Madrid; we did not come into question whether measures should be taken in Madrid. What we told him is that in Galicia, since June, we were taking action and we were doing it with a battery of criteria that exceeded those three that wanted to impose the Ministry. We were talking about at least ten indicators. And that in addition to those ten indicators were proposed and reviewed by some technicians that the Ministry doesn't know if it has; it just said right now that four months ago it hasn't met with the technicians, with its committee. We do meet with technicians, decisions are backed up by technicians and with those ten criteria. And with those ten criteria, no action was taken today. It's more: with the Ministry's criteria in Ourense, we didn't have to do anything curiously today. And we believe that yes, that action must be taken in Ourense. And we already took them — I repeat — in the Navy they shine in June, in the Coruña, in Lugo, in Pontevedra and so on — as I said before — up to forty-four municipalities. And these measures, when taken with technical criteria, are proven to work. And that's what we told the Ministry. And besides, you don't have to have a threshold of 100,000 inhabitants to take those measures and the rest of the populations of less people don't have any. That's what we told the Ministry. And we also told him that if they proposed a technical document, we would support it. Interestingly, this Friday, two days after that refusal to present a technical document, he presented it, and today the members of the Alerts P.O. discussed it and, in principle, we agree with that document, which will have to be evolved. Finally, what I'm saying is that we are not opposed to taking those measures. I repeat: in Ourense, with the Ministry's criteria, we wouldn't have to take any action. And I'm referring to the data that Ourense has right now. We're not in the 500 cases per 100,000 inhabitants, we're not in 35% of ICU occupation and we're not in more than 10% of positive PCR, which is the simple criteria that the Ministry proposed to act in cities like Ourense. So I have to say that we do not agree with that appreciation and that we will continue to take action, with the support of the Ministry or without it, as we have done so far when the situation suggests it, as we have done today and how we will continue to do in the remaining situations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u270	Thank you, Counselor. Question from Da Marina Ortega Otero and two other Members from the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the comprehensive conciliation plan drawn up by the Council of Galicia in the event that families should take care of minors in cases of suspension of the educational activity as a result of covid-19
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u271	You have the word Marina Ortega says.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u272	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Galicia can lose in the next fifteen years 178,000 inhabitants to follow this trend; we are from autonomous communities with the worst rate of birth and demography. But it is significant about the population that we lost in the age group that is precisely in fertile age, which, by the way, is the same generation that experienced a crisis years ago when - we remember - they had to emigrate again, just when they entered the labour market. And now this same generation is faced with another crisis when it has to match the balance of working and family life in the midst of an economic and social crisis motivated by an unprecedented pandemic. How can we look after our children in this context if there are no real reconciliation policies on the part of the Union? On conciliation and equality there is one before and one after Decree Law 6/2019, which approved the Central Government on 1 March last year. But after months of pandemic, here, with a deep economic and social crisis, mothers and parents we had to face a course start in Galicia with no gratuitousness in the textbooks, with the negative on the part of the Union to the initiative of this parliament to bring free masks to children in the educational centres, with a pandemic in the middle, in the only autonomous community that did not provide effective direct help to self-government in the worst moments, as did other autonomous communities. And without real effective reconciliation policies that solve the uncertainty in which families live. At this point, families need a clear path of action, they need solutions to look after their children in these unprecedented specific conditions, in a Galician where wages and pensions are the lowest in the state. What would many families do without ERTE payrolls or unprecedented self-help? And, of course, what would we do without the great effort the local administrations have made, our municipalities, to have so much of the data from the vault by the municipalities to this very day, that Mr. Feijóo finally fell from the butter? What would we do without these aids by the municipalities, local administrations and state aids? But we're already late, because in places like in my province, in Ourense, we're at the limit. Conciliation is a pending task of the Social Policy Council, and the pandemic has done nothing but show this important deficiency. Counsellor, since June you have to watch and put measures on the table now, don't wait for the Town Councils or the Central Government to solve everything, because here there are competences, then there are resources to do so. This camera has committed itself to solving the question of conciliation with solutions, and you are responsible for executing the solution. The question that all families are asking: how can we care for our children in this context?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u273	Thank you, Mrs Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u274	We're delegating dangerously...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u275	Thank you, thank you... He's got another round later. Your time is up. Thank you. [[Applause]] Reply by the Social Policy Advisor, Mrs. Fabiola García Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u276	President, ladies and gentlemen, very late again. Mrs. Ortega, a few months ago, I had the opportunity to come to this chamber to inform you of the conciliation measures that as a government we have in place every day and at the disposal of all the Greek families; measures that in recent years have been strengthened to make Galicia the best place to form a family. Mrs. Ortega, the Galician Union has been silent for many years. And that's why we were able to double the public squares in children's schools by twenty-five thousand that we currently have, to be pioneers in the implementation of a free childhood education for the second children and the next ones, which started on April 1st and which benefits the families of some fourteen thousand children who attend public, private and municipal childhood schools. We've been the one who's been pushing the nesting houses over these years in the smaller municipalities of Galicia. Conciliation resources 100 percent free of charge for families living in the Italian countryside and suitable for a maximum of five children. And we are, of course, fully aware that the pandemic has faced many additional difficulties for many families. That's why we respond with a pioneering measure, which is the extraordinary care vouchers. Between 500 and 600 euros a month for families to be able to hire care services for children, for adults and for people with disabilities. And even so, while the day centers were closed in Galicia, we launched a relief service in the extraordinary home. Thanks to it they could lend five million hours in all the Greek homes. We've been to the top, therefore, during the first wave and we'll be back to the top during this second wave, because in this new context where we've lived we'll continue to work to give families more and more facilities and to be able to reconcile. That is why the first law which the Government of Greece has referred to this Parliament in Galicia in this period of sessions was the Law of demographic impulse, which will be the normative support for all the answers that will be given in the coming months and years in the field of conciliation. I really hope, Mrs Ortega, to count on your loyal support, on the constructive approaches that normally make us and, finally, also, of course, with the positive vote of your party, of the Socialist Party, to move forward unanimously this important law of demographic impulse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u277	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u278	Counsellor, the bond of care that they said would reach thirty-six thousand families only reached a thousand and two hundred families. That doesn't work out. You told the media. With all due respect, he lies before a sovereign chamber, where citizenship has commissioned us to represent and serve the Greek people in the midst of a profound crisis. It's not the time to give a piece of news; that's why we've already put the news, Counselor. It's about working so that we have reconciliation plans already, like other autonomous communities, which have had them for a long time, real, and which solve the lives of parents and mothers, and don't have to derive from grandparents, who are in danger in this pandemic. [[Applause]] It's really sad, Your Honor, that the only information and explanation on this matter that must be given to citizenship on many occasions on its part is to ask the central government to resolve it, or the municipalities, because it deems itself to be incompetent here. It's also regrettable that we've been on several regular days and you don't appear on this camera yet. You, Counselor, and your government do as the story of the boy coming from a school exam, and if you approve, tell the mother: "I approved"; and if you suspend, he says, "I was suspended." You do the same thing. When we were in the state of alarm, the only command was the state, when things went better, and the only command was the state, it was Feijoo who had the merits, and now, which is when they have the competences and things don't work, the fault is always the rest: of the state, of the municipalities or mayors. [[Applause]] The State's contribution to Galicia: more than one hundred and twenty thousand Galicians protected by the Central Government with social benefits; more than one hundred and twenty thousand protected and already incorporated to work; and twenty and two thousand who continue to be protected by ERTE. Ninety-five thousand received benefits from the State administration: EUR 17 million from the Social Fund, EUR 1.9 million from dining grants for Galicia, 31,800 from Greek companies, FEDER 272 million, EUR 361 million from the Covid Fund, etc. The municipalities, trying and providing solutions, with municipal services...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u279	Thank you, Mrs Ortega. Thank you. Your time is up. Thank you. That's it, that's it. Thank you. [[Applause]] Close the question, Social Policy Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u280	Thank you very much, President. Mrs Ortega, you will recall that at the last plenary meeting, on 22 September, all, and I reiterate absolutely all the members of this House, including Members and Members of your Socialist Group, we agree: "1st)Adopt a line of measures to guarantee the right to conciliation while there are serious concerns about the cowardice. 2nd) Urge the Spanish Government to approve a State-wide paid permit for parents and mothers with children in quarantine." To me, the truth is, I'd like to know if you demand the same concern in fulfilling your commitments to the Government of Mr. Sánchez as to the German Government. And we don't understand, because if we always do what we promised, we comply with all the measures we announced and all the measures are in progress, and we will continue to do so. [[Applause]] That's why Mrs Ortega, Galicia approves and her government in Madrid, suspends. [[Applause]] It's more: Mrs. Ortega, do you really know what I think would help them reconcile many Greek families and have a better quality of life? May the minimum vital income arrive with agility to all the Greek homes. But for that it seems that you and your government are in such a hurry. The Greek Government is and will always be fully aware of the needs and the conciliation services that the Greek families need in order to reconcile their personal life and their working life. Ladies and gentlemen, the Galician Union has always made a commitment and will always be present with Greek citizenship. It's a commitment that's going to fulfill, and it will always take into account the reality and the circumstances in which we find ourselves. And as I know that we share this objective, Mrs Ortega, I really trust — and I insist — that in the coming months we can maintain a fluid dialogue and a constant dialogue so that we can get this law of demographic impulse, which is a pioneer at the national level, which is necessary for the Greek homes, to arrive at this chamber and leave this chamber with consensus, and be approved unanimously. That would help the families of Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-07-DSPG008.u281	Thank you, Counselor. There's no more business. Finish the full here. Good afternoon.
