ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u1	Good morning. We resumed the meeting with the sixth item on the agenda, from questions for the president's oral answer. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block, on the possibility of concealing the management carried out by the Government of Galicia for a decade in relation to the defence of Galician interests
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u2	First of all, he raises the question of the Galego Nationalist Block, replacing Mrs. Pontón Mondelo, Mrs. Rodil Fernández. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u3	Thank you, President. Mr. Feijóo, allow me briefly to repeat your decade as absentee, incompetent and disloyal President of Galicia. [[Applause]] Look, it's the chronicle of a president being submitted to Madrid, first to Rajoy and now to Casado — disguised as a false political confrontation —. Let's look at some of the big hits of his last decade. You've achieved zero new skills for Galicia in ten years, sky! He supported an energy framework designed and approved by the People's Party and continued by the Socialist Party that has 6,000 jobs at risk. He approved and consented to the budget cuts at high speed without opening his mouth. He consented to the scam of the beaches and the systematic blockade of the People's Party to the transfer of AP-9. In addition to joy, he signed an unfair and discriminatory financing system with Galicia. [[Applause]] There's a service sheet, Mr. Feijóo! [[Applause]] And I wonder if you really think you can cover ten years of submission to Madrid and treason to Galicia with epistoll frenzy: 22 letters! I couldn't have done it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u4	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u5	The only sense of that last-minute rapture was that you discovered the Welsh agenda. Welcome, it's only ten years late. By the way, the Welsh agenda is at the heart of the political debate in the state, the BNG with an investment agreement that has achieved more in a month than you have in ten years. [[Applause]] Mr. Feijóo, you're only right when you're rectified. We just saw him at the Verín Hospital. But lately it's also right when you copy the BNG. The only thing that's missing, the only thing that's missing from you to have some credibility, is to move from the letters to the facts. Let's make two proposals from BNG. First he demands the money the state owes to Galicia — three months ago you voted against this proposal when the BNG brought it to this Parliament. Rectify and it will hit. And secondly, it adds up to the Greeks and the Greeks and supports the commitments launched by the Spanish Government by the Galego Nationalist Block: AP-9 transfer by 2020 and lowers the rates, fair energy transition, more funds for dependency, three more judges of macho violence in our country, modernize the interior train, which also exists, and ensure that Galicia maintains the same political status as the other nations of the state. Mr. Feijóo, you are fully aware that you are at your discount time and that at this point it is impossible to cover ten years of submission and centralism as much as it involves itself in the Greek flag. You'll have time, I assure you, to write letters when the gales and the gales give you the finish in the polls.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Answer by the president of the board. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please, a little quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u7	Thank you, President. Your Honor, allow me to say that health for its new functions and that it assumes — in this case I repeat — on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group and in my own congratulations to the BNG spokesman for this excellent new family that has just arrived. Your Honor, to try to take it seriously about your commitment lessons with Galicia, allow me to briefly review the history of the BNG in two headlines. On the one hand, there's what BNG says. In October 2007, when they had to make the decision to support Zapatero's government, the BNG — cito — said: "The BNG states that it will only support Zapatero if the pending powers are activated." A year later — I read a newspaper headline — "Zapatero ignores the agreement with the BNG for the second time to drive the pending transfers". Besides what they say, of course, what they get. But I would add: and, besides, what they do. 13 years ago with the Bipartite, in 2007, the BNG and the PSOE in the German Parliament voted against the transfer of the Atlantic Highway — Zapatero is not going to ask for the Atlantic Highway. BNG voted against and PSOE, of course so did. And a year later, in 2008, the Bipartite deals with Zapatero that with the money of the Greeks we pay half the cost of raising Rande's toll. I mean, with the BNG, the transfer is not requested — which has always been requested by the Galician People's Party — and in addition to the BNG they paid the Greeks for raising a toll on a state highway. With the PP what we did was to denounce that Bipartite agreement and save 400 million euros so that the Greeks don't pay to lift a toll from a state highway. [[Applause]] That's why, Your Honor, now it turns out that you have to listen to her boast of what BNG does. Look, you know what BNG does? Usually support the Socialist Party, yes, yes, yes, and always. And the Socialist Party always does the same: ignoring the BNG, yes, yes, yes, and always. That is the holder of the BNG and the Socialist Party. [[Applause]] Look, ma'am, the slave-agreement that you had to sign to wash your face in front of the 'yes' to the Sánchez government. I got him here. We read this deal several times because we couldn't give credit for this joke that you signed on behalf of the country. Would you guarantee this agreement to avoid the closure of the Bridges? None. Commitment to the continuity of San Cibrao and the electrointensive companies — 5,000 jobs —? None. Commitment to the marine sectors to maintain their facilities in the maritime-terrestrial zone? None. Is it a commitment to end the AVE lies and set the date of the completion of the AVE by 2020? It's not mentioned. None. Commitment to lower the rates of the highway between Santiago and Lalín? It's not mentioned. Commitment to invest something on the part of the Central Government in Xacobeo? It's not mentioned. Commitment to get more pediatricians and family doctors? It's not mentioned. Commitment for fair funding for Galicia? It doesn't even matter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u8	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u9	Commitment to provide funds for the demographic problems of Galicia and the rest of Spain? It doesn't even matter. But if this was not the most serious thing, it turns out, Your Honor, that there is not a single word from the BNG to claim the 370 million euros that the Central Government owes to the country. Your Honor, this is indeed a big deal of the BNG that the People's Party of Galicia will never copy, Your Honor. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u10	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u11	Look, Your Honor, Mr. Sánchez has a good job with you; the Socialist Spanish Workers' Party in Galicia with the BNG. Good job! If you're down, Your Honor, you're down. But not here, Your Honor, we will continue to defend the country. You know why? Because the country trusts us. And we will continue to defend Galicia. You know why? Because Galicia is our commitment. We will continue to defend, Your Honor, Galicia's interests. And in order to defend Galicia's interests, it is not always appropriate to say yes to the Socialist Party, Your Honor. In order to defend Galician interests, we must say yes to the Greeks. And between the Socialist Party and the Greeks, the People's Party of Galicia is staying with the Greeks. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u12	Thank you, President. Mrs. Rodil's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u13	Thank you, President. You know, Mr. Feijóo, there is no water that washes his political incompetence for ten years. And, of course, you have to come here now to criticize the BNG investment agreement, why are you going to talk about it? [[Applause]] Do you give your 22 letters? [[Murmurs.]] Are you going to talk about 22 letters that are the portrait of your decade of incompetence and disloyalty with this country? Is that what you're going to talk to this House about? Those letters, Mr. Feijóo, are the result of their political incompetence, and they are also the result of years, a decade, of centralism and submission to Madrid. You have to talk about the BNG deal because you don't have anything to put on the table at the gales and the gales. And you're saying there's a lot left in that deal. Here's a president of the Union, there's a government of the Union. If you can't do your job, let others do it for you. [[Applause]] I'm telling you again: you are fully aware that you are in your time of discount and that you will not be able, in what remains, to amend to the full this decade of political submission and centralism. He knows perfectly well that more and more Germans want a real change in this country. If you want to have some credibility in your time, what we ask you to do is act, exercise for once as President of Galicia. If you want to claim the right of the Galicians and the Greeks to manage the money that is yours and that you refuse to transfer the state, ask the Spanish Government to the courts. Stop crying, stop whining and exercise for a time as president of Galician Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Close this question by Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u15	Your Honor, you're surprised I have to write 22 letters. A lot more to me! But it's really the government you've supported, a government with which, to communicate with him, we need a display to know exactly what ministry we're talking about. [[Laughter]] It's 22 ministries, 22 letters. It's really 24, but the other two don't have to quote them because they're dedicated to other things even though they're very much in government, they're moved to other state institutions. But it surprises you to have to write 22 letters to the Government that you said "yes" is, at least, very curious. And now that you come here to advise me that I ask the Central Government that you have just supported will pass on to the history of the coherence of the Galician Nationalist Block. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, you ask me to denounce the government you support, you ask me to denounce the government after you have achieved a great pact of legislation and investment. But the truth, Your Honor, is that you could start a little more coherently. Look, Your Honor, you're not interested in Galicia. All you're interested in is going against the Galician People's Party, which is a different thing. If they cared about Galicia, they'd never accept a government that first comes in to laugh at the Greeks and say that the 370 million euros in Galicia don't exist. First hide them, then spend them and now say they don't exist. Look, Your Honor, I am the president of a democratic government, I represent the state in Galicia, I have tried to speak to the central government correctly, faithfully, with dialogue, with reason. I tried to find reasons, reasons and proposals to get out of this nonsense, which is nothing more and nothing less than an institutional theft of the resources of the Greeks. I did everything I could to try to negotiate and understand with the central government that you support and I don't. I have therefore made every effort to understand with the government that BNG supports. But, Your Honor, as I represent the Greeks, once all responsibilities have been exhausted and once all the possibilities of institutional understanding have been exhausted, of course the Council of Galicia will continue to exhaust all the possibilities in the judicial field to defend Galicia and the Greeks from the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and the Galician Nationalist Block, Your Honor. Of course we will use all legal possibilities. [[Applause]] Your Honor, already in the first week of that investment agreement, you must have asked for forgiveness from the Greeks. They sold themselves for nothing, Your Honor. They went to Madrid to try to sign this document which is regrettable. And I'm telling you as President of the Board, it's regrettable. I would never change or ever sign a document to defend Galicia's size and size. Look, Your Honor, you've preferred to ask the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party that of the national feeling, but not the 350 million euros of the Greek public services. Feelings are free, Your Honor, but maintaining health, education and public services is not free. And the Socialist Party, as it would not sign! Give you any feeling you have. The problem is the 370 million euros we owe to the Greeks for public services, Your Honor. [[Laughter]] Feelings, free; money, no. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u16	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u17	Look, Your Honor, Galicia is not a nationalist, Galicia is not an independentist, but Galicia is not a sovereign. Be a little more humble, Your Honor. The only thing they've achieved is that the Socialist Party laughs at all the Greeks through the acronyms of the BNG. Round business, as round as a zero: zero euros obtained from Galician debt and the BNG of necessary accomplice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u18	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u19	Look, Your Honor, less bad than the Greeks have a government, they have a majority parliamentary group and they have a president who will never give up their responsibilities. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u20	Two questions are now raised in a cumulative way. He asked Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Antón Sánchez García of the G.P. Group of the Left, on the conclusions drawn by the Government of Greece regarding the conflict of the Parish of Verín Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Gonzalo Caballero Míguez, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the assumption of responsibilities for the problems that are being generated with the closure of the Parish
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u21	He begins by asking the question, Mr Anton Sánchez, spokesperson for the Parliamentary Group of the Left Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u22	Good morning. Good morning, Mr. Feijó. The word for fashion in his government action is "recuar", retreating from Touro—and from the Touro mine we will talk in the afternoon—and from Verín and what I suppose, what we're going to talk about now. In the mobilization of citizenship against its health policies, it often says, "With this government we're going ass." So when you're in charge, the rest of us are moving forward, and public health is moving forward. We rejoice at your corrections and congratulate the people who have mobilized to claim another future other than what you offer. That's right, Verin's rectification came after a spooky personal walk on its part. He began to find an imperience to the staff of the centre for not having at least 600 births a year. He never had them in all the years of his history and yet they did provide an optimal service to the professionals in that center. You missed them about it. As this argument is not supported, he spoke of the failure of pediatricians — as if you had no responsibility for the failure of medical professionals. Then he said you could give birth but under the responsibility of the mothers. And finally—because babies were even born there, sons of concelers of the People's Party and even the people of the People's Party mobilized with great power—you retreated definitely. But he had to say the last word: "Be made with strengthened informed consent." No, Mr. Feijóo, you have an obligation to give the poisons and the poisons the same rights as all citizens of Galicia. So reopen the parlor with the same conditions that any citizen of Galicia can have, and quit being surprised. I think that two things happened to him: first, that they had frustrated his plan to close the parlor and continue cutting into public health; and then, while you were making the ridiculous attempt to get airy out of this tank, Mr. Baltar swallowed and profiled himself. Let him wake up and correct his health policies. Verín has shown three things: that people are sick of their health policy of cuts to the public for the benefit of the private; of discrimination, of abandonment and destruction of the rural; and, finally, of the information manipulation that you've been doing since you arrived at the Government. Poison was the drop that filled the glass. You work for private health, you destroy rural life, as all the data has shown since you came to the Government, and you, ever since you arrived, have in the information manipulation the central part of your policy. You have outraged the citizenship of Verin with the information that you once again gave to this conflict. You control, manipulate, and don't hesitate to reprisal anyone who doesn't say what you want the Greek media to say, Mr. Feijóo. He's a sad censor in San Caetano. [[(Expression taken from the Journal of Sessions by order of the President in the light of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure.)]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u23	Silence! We'll remove that expression, Mr. Sánchez. There's no franchise here.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u24	On these three questions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u25	No, sorry. Let's get this over with. We're going to nuance this question. I ask you to remove that expression.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u26	Why, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u27	I ask you because the phrase "franquisa" does not fit here in reference to a member of the Government or a representative who is in this House because it has a pesorative connotation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u28	I refer to the fact that the information policy of this government is similar to that of franchiseism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u29	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u30	For the control, manipulation and repression of professionals who want to make information.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u31	I ask you to remove that expression.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u32	I won't remove that expression.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u33	You have a call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u34	All right. On these three issues, Mr Feijóo, you should take note of what happened in Verín, because people are already fed up with their policies, they want to have another country, they want to have a future in this country, they want to have a future in the countryside, and their policies are a danger to that future. Will you rectify your policies, Mr Feijóo?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u35	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Caballero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Feijóo, we have to defend Galicia from its government and its policies. We must defend in the street and in parliamentary headquarters the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks in front of their cuts, in front of their political action. You, Mr. Feijóo, are taking the hair of the Greeks and the Greeks. He has made continuous decisions against Greek citizenship in the area of health, in the field of social services, equality, in the field of defence of the country. You, Mr. Feijóo, made decisions that damaged the interests of the country's citizenship. You, Mr. Feijóo, tell us now that you would never sign an agreement like the Socialist Party signed to govern Spain, but you told us that you would sign the agreement that the People's Party has with Vox to rule in Andalusia. And I mean, Mr. Feijóo, you've lost your credibility. He lost credibility because he is able to defend "a", "b", or "c" with the same vehemence, with the same attempt of superiority, in parliamentary headquarters. And that's why he's starting to retreat now. He starts to retreat because he's not given the bill, and he lies in the neighborhood of Verín, he lies in the hemodynamics in Ourense and he sits in the Touro mine. He goes back because you no longer rule for the Greeks and for the Greeks. You have become, in your electoral strategy, the board of directors of the People's Party. And there's a new majority in the country that marks the political agenda for the needs of the Galicians and the Greeks, a majority in the country that is willing to govern when there are elections, but that will mark in the last months of your government the limits of the dismantling you want to do of the social services, public health, the well-being of the Greeks and the Greeks. Do you remember, Mr. Feijóo, when two months ago you told us you were supposed to close the neighborhood of Verin for security reasons? Did you remember, Mr. Feijóo, that two months ago you told us that you had to close the neighborhood of Verín because doctors and doctors had lost or lost their expertise because of lack of professional practice? Do you remember when some of your leaders said that the oransas had to give birth in Vigo in certain cases? That speech you made, and part of it, you yourself here in parliamentary headquarters, with the same arrogance you use every time you speak in this Parliament, with one truth, that speech has now had to change radically. It has changed radically because there's a new majority in the country who set it up, who put it against the ropes, who put it in a situation of instability and lack of strength in its credibility. And what are the responsibilities after you've closed the parlor for two months? Who assumes those responsibilities? What do you think of the situation that different mothers had to live, some who gave birth in Ourense, others in Verín, others who had to leave their children nothing more to go to Ourense? What responsibility do you assume, Mr. Feijóo? Will you stop all those responsible? And what is that, Mr. Feijóo, about when you ask about Verín you speak of a strengthened informed consent? Because legislation is very good at establishing the consents that exist. Do you want to keep getting scared in the case of the neighborhood of Verín? What is the problem, Mr Feijóo, that the comarcal hospitals are functioning safely for years and decades with a birth ratio other than what you were demanding with those supposed technical criteria? Mr. Feijóo, you had a plan to dismantle the parrots with those supposedly technical criteria in all of Galician comarcas hospitals, and a majority of Galician citizenship who went out on the streets put him against the ropes. Mr Feijóo, public health is safe with the consents to be given in accordance with the law, and the Government of Galicia has to guarantee all the mechanisms of that security. The neighborhood of Verín was safe, safe and there are mechanisms to make it safe. What's not safe for Galicia is that you're still President of the Union. His government gives insecurity, it gives instability, it scares public hospitals, criminalizes professionals, takes their strength... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u37	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u38	...and they want to scare the mothers of the Verin County when they want to use a parlor that will be opened with the support of most Galician people who will enhance public health when there is a change of government. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u39	Thank you. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have had two consecutive plenary sessions in which the members of the Spanish Government coalition come here perfectly coordinated. They even ask the same questions in the control session to the President. Ladies and gentlemen, you are currently very coordinated in Madrid and Santiago. Besides, they have a partner in Santiago who dances water to them and, therefore, it seems, for the first few weeks, you have an interesting coordination. It might seem that they bring this issue in order to clarify this matter, even to stop poisoning the country's public health — as both spokesmen have just done — but they insist that the goal of the PP is to dismantle health, in which the goal of the PP is to dismantle all the parishes in hospitals and criminalize professionals. For you, health is really an excuse to wear out a government, and they do it in such a gross way that all they can is to desist from public health. And we're here to defend public health. That's the big difference between you and us. Defending public health is making responsible decisions. Responsible decision is to anticipate the health of mothers and children instead of a parent and at the moment nothing but the birth of a new person. Yes, defending public health is exactly the opposite of populism and electoralism, absolutely the opposite. It was a technical decision we made. It was a technical decision endorsed by 44 professionals who signed a document. All gynaecologists and obstetricians — I reiterate — of the health area of Ourense Hospital, and all pediatricians at Ourense Hospital, signed a document proposing to suspend the activity of the Parisian Parish because there were not enough professionals to care for life and health at births that could happen at any time. It was a decision, besides, endorsed by a judge — because, as always, you criminalize public health. I read the judge's auto: "Since the decision taken takes account of the endorsement and basis of the reports issued by pediatricians..." Until they bring us to the trial for this, gentlemen, they even denounce and criminalize public health in the courts, and they have to put the judges order in this electoralist and populist unrest that you keep. Was it a painful decision? Of course, that's why we've explored all the limits to get pediatricians for that godfather. Was it an unpopular decision? We knew it, we knew we would have difficulty explaining this decision, of course. But that didn't put us behind us, because first there's the life of mothers and children and then there's the reactions and the wearout of governments. Was it a responsible decision? [[Applause]] Of course. We had a reality close by, we didn't have pediatricians in Ourense, and the head of the Pediatrics Service reported to him: "We don't have pediatricians to cover the Verín, the Bark and the Ourense guards simultaneously. We don't have pediatricians, there's three pediatricians who just left Ourense Hospital, and we have over 1,200 children on waiting lists in Ourense health because we don't have pediatricians on an ordinary day. And we asked to suspend births in Verín." What did we do? Take care of the technical reasons and the medical reasons that we are notified. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem — and we said it directly and indirectly — was that we didn't have pediatricians and that, as soon as we had pediatricians, we would reopen the building of Verín. I said it here in parliamentary headquarters and every time I was asked. But this problem is not a Galician problem, it's a problem from all over Spain and we brought the hemerotheque. For example, 21 health centers in Catalonia have been without a pediatrician for months. We've been asking the Government to make decisions for three years. The government has told us everything not. He said not to the register of health professionals, not to an extraordinary call by MIR of pediatricians and family doctors, not to the elimination of the replacement rate in public offers of employment for pediatricians and family doctors. But what does the coalition do, gentlemen? What does the coalition do? First they stop having doctors and now it turns out that the causes that there are no pediatricians in Spain are the ones who accuse us of their own actions? But, ladies, why don't we talk about what we do in health care? Do you really mind if we put the hemodynamics service in Ourense at 24 hours? If the PP puts a 24-hour hemodynamic service in Ourense, it's electoralism. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and the Left in Common don't do electoralism. But what a face, gentlemen! 24 hours of hemodynamics in Ourense, 24 hours of hemodynamics in Lugo, and when you were in the Government, neither hemodynamics in Ourense nor hemodynamics in Lugo, ladies. [[Murmurs.]] But what are you telling me here, gentlemen? [[Applause]] Does it really bother you that a week ago we got a new emergency building at the Summer Hospital with two million euros? Do you mind, ladies and gentlemen, that this morning we're going to introduce the new public hospital in the Coruña? This government is really accused of not betting for health when it will end the legislate with new public hospitals operating in Vigo, Lugo, Salnés and the Marine Light; and in works in Montecelo, Ferrol and Ourense; and now the new public hospital of the Coruña. [[Pontevedra]] But really, ladies and gentlemen, is this what bothers you? [[Applause]] Look, ladies and gentlemen, I'm bringing you some very bad news. It turns out that we made public offers of employment for pediatricians in Verín last June, before making any decision with the parent — that is the data — we took it back in December — they return to be data — and we take it back in January — and that is data, ladies and gentlemen. The bad news I have is that at last we have pediatricians in Verín and at last next week we'll be reopening the Porin parlor. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the actions of the public health of this government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u41	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u42	Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, now that we have pediatricians in Verín, mothers will be able to give birth to all health guarantees in Verín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u43	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u44	And now that we have pediatricians in Verín, children born in Verín can be born with all health guarantees. And now that we have health assurances, we'll open up the Parish Wall again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u45	Thank you. Mr. Sánchez's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u46	See, Mr. Feijóo, please clarify something, that I've already lost myself after all the explanations and justifications you've given. I lost. What did you just say will open with all guarantees does it mean that you will not have to sign a reformed informed consent and that you will have to sign normal consent in any hospital? Tell him, because we're already lost so much justification that you had to give after 20,000 people left in Verín, even the people who voted for the People's Party, outraged by the closure of the parent, Mr. Feijóo. Don't go on because of the laughouts. [[Applause]] Seriously, Mr. Feijóo, I advise you, don't keep doing the ridiculous thing. You were talking about the People's Party's Health Goals. Those goals of the People's Party for Health, unfortunately, you're getting them. A short time ago, the employer of private health said that never in history in Galicia had so much business for private health. Never so much cake has touched private health. That's his goal since his long path of health management since the 1990s, with Mr. Romay Beccaría at the Galician Union, in the state, etc. Privatize, privatize, privatize and do business! Mr. Feijóo, technical decision, weren't there professionals? No, it wasn't. You spoke of imperience because there were no 600 births a year. Don't lie, you talked about empire. And in the face of the mobilization and indignation of the offended professionals, you had to look for four more justifications to see which one was better, Mr. Feijóo, do not lie to the citizen. Was the situation painful? It wasn't painful for you when you took it. It was painful when he saw the fence he got into. But his will was to continue to cut down, continue to harm the countryside, continue to prejudice public health and give business to private health, Mr. Feijóo. You say the works that are being done, the electoral promises in the pre-election period, are very important to health. Of course, works are necessary. But in Valencia, Madrid and Galicia there have always been sanitary works. Tell the Punica companies if there were works, tell them in Galicia, that they took a contract of 11 million euros! That's not the problem, Mr. Feijóo, the problem is the precarious work you've implemented, the problem is the austerity policies that you've implemented in Madrid and here. Because you were talking about the repositioning rate and all the obstacles that you think come from the state, but you've been seven years in the state government and you've been, with Mr. Montoro at the front, those who have implemented austerity policies that have prevented there from being professionals in health care; because, the less professionals there are in health care, the more people turn to private health, which is the ultimate goal. Mr. Feijóo, listen, stop making the ridiculous and correct.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u47	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Mr. Caballero's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Feijóo, there are a few months of legislation left and I can assure you that all of his interventions will not take away our strength and the desire to change Galicia; that there will not be any kind of complex when he talks about coalitions—that most of the Greeks and Greeks voted for a progressive government in Galicia, with 200,000 votes more than those who drew all the right together in Galicia—that Galicia goes well with a government that rises the pensions, which rises the minimum interprofessional wage, which rises the wages of public employees, who bet on real equality. You, in your political discount time, as you don't want to be aware of the bad manager that is and the problem that is for Galicia, are looking for a strategy of escapism to seek responsibilities outside. But the Galicians and the Greeks, Mr. Feijóo, we are not fools, we are not going to buy their fake product, liar, their lies and fallacies that regularly sell with the institutional power of the Galician Union. And we're going to confront democratically, dialectically, a project to put an end to a bad stage for Galicia. You change the position with the neighborhood of Verín because you're uprooted, because you've found a Galician who put it against the ropes, which is politically nabbed. And if there wasn't that massive mobilization in Galicia, today the parlor would be closed and you'd follow the plan to close the parlors because they don't give the technical criteria. The new Galicia won't stop against your lie, Mr. Feijóo. And we're going to do it because you managed in Galicia more than 100 billion euros — if we update the funds, more than 200 billion euros — in eleven years of government. And of course he has budgetary capacity to solve Galician problems. He doesn't want to do it in public services, nor does he have that commitment to the country. And we know what's left. You don't justify your mistakes today. Tell us "a", "b" or "c" with the same vehemence and the same institutional power, demonstrating that, when Feijóo says "a", it's false, when he says "b" is false, and when he says "c" is false. The problem with Verín is that you wanted to cut for the rural environment, I wanted to cut in public health. But the underlying problem is that Mr. Feijóo remains unreliable; that, when he speaks, his word is no longer worth nothing; that he no longer speaks as president of the Greeks and the Greeks, he simply speaks as president of the People's Party of Galicia who wants to convert the Council of Galicia's board of directors of the People's Party, with its political cynicism, with its strategy of confrontation. It's simply electoralism because you know that the time of the People's Party in front of the Galician Union is a time of discount. He knows that the same social majority that won the elections in 2019, that made him retreat in the neighborhood of Verín, that made him retreat in the mine of Touro, that made him retreat in the hemodynamics in Lugo and Ourense...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u49	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u50	Do you worry about them? Don't you like it? I understand you don't like it, Mr. Feijóo!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u51	Quiet, quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u52	Also, if I was eleven years president with an absolute majority...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u53	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u54	Also, if I were eleven years of president with an absolute majority and I found a different reality, I would be angry. It's just that the risk is that the last PP rows won't repeat when there's elections. Yeah, yeah, they won't laugh like that when they open the polls! [[Laughter]] You'll see him again, Mr. Feijó. [[Strong murmurers.]] So we ask him not to hurt Galicia any more in the months that remain with him as a government, to keep the public services that exist, to be loyal to the Greeks and the Greeks, that the problem is not a problem of coherence or of different coalitions. The problem of coordination is your problem, even with the Ourense People's Party, which is not coordinated. And the coordination problem is that the president of the Galician Union is no longer in coordination with most of the Galicians and the Greeks. Thank you very much, Mr. Feijó.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u55	Thank you, Mr. Knight. [[Strong murmurers.]] Order in the room, order in the room, please! A little quiet! Close the president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u56	This is very enlightening, I suppose the people who are in the rostrum will leave with a very clear idea of each one's position. Well, the mantra of what remains of the Left in Common is that we bet on private health. I know what the papers did to him was for Madrid, but, man, don't you know that private health concerts went down with this government and that they went up with the Bipartite? You just have to know what it's like to go down and up. That's why it's all clear. But what's clear is that it also gives the feeling that you, instead of celebrating that next week — since we already have pediatricians — are opening up the neighborhood of Verín, they're upset. [[Murmurs.]] That's what really bothers them. [[Murmurs.]] I've just announced that this morning we commit the new public hospital of the Coruña at the Coruña Hospital, and they say it's electoralism. We opened the hemodynamics at Ourense, after installing it, after opening it from 8 to 3, after expanding it from 3 to 10 at night and now at 24 hours. It's electoralism. But, ladies and gentlemen, losing three pediatricians in Ourense's health area and making decisions accordingly to preserve the health of mothers and children, that's not electoralism. That would be an enormous irresponsibility in which I, of course, will not fall. They may like our decisions more or less, we may be more or less correct in our communications, but if I have the confidence of the Greeks, it's because the Greeks know perfectly well that I am a responsible person and that I will never put the life of any patient at risk because they don't criticize me in Parliament or because I wear this government down. [[Applause]] The important thing is not to wear out governments, the important thing is to maintain public health in the country. To say that there was a reopening of the parlor even though there were no pediatricians was very easy, even easy to do. But doing so would be the greatest irresponsibility of a democratic government president. It doesn't count on me for that, Mr. Health Management apprentices. [[Murmurs.]] Facing lies is the facts. There have never been as many budgets in public health as now, 2,500 new professionals now work more in public health than when the Bipartite was. There has never been more health activity than now, there have never been any smaller waiting lists in time waiting that now, there have never been more public health services in the comarcas hospitals than now, there has never been so much health expenditure and so much public health infrastructure — 80% of the population of Greece has next to their home, in their health area, a new health center or a new public hospital—. This is what bothers them, gentlemen. What bothers them is that, in public health, you're the only one who can do electoralism; and we, building this public health, building it with professionals, building it in services, in infrastructure, in supplies, in the media. Now, Mr Sánchez, with a party like yours, which in the European Parliament stands in favour of antivirals, I don't think we should waste much time discussing health. If you're in favor of not vaccinating the children, what more can you give them there are birthplaces without pediatricians! What more can you give them! If you, the Socialist Party, rule with the anti-active lords, what are you talking about here, about pediatricians? If the pediatricians for you are just a number! But you don't know that a child's doctor isn't a gynecologist or an obstetrician, who's the pediatrician? Didn't you know it's a huge irresponsibility to be born in a delivery home without a pediatrician in a hospital? The level is that in 2006 the pediatricians in Verín left with the Bipartite and shut up for so long, Your Honor! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You've been quiet for so long! [[Applause]] Mutis, Your Honor! Look, Your Honor, I understand you're upset with the truth, and I understand you're upset with the truth because it bothers you that there's less waiting list in Verín today than when you were ruling, and that in Verín now you're making about 10% more surgical interventions than when you were governing yourself, and 36% more consultations than when you were ruling. And I understand you're upset that in Verín you're going to consult cardiologists, dissectians, endocrinologists and neurologists, who before, when you were in government, didn't consult and you had to go to Ourense. They're staying in Verín now, Your Honor! I understand you bother them, I understand you perfectly, Your Honor. [[Applause]] And also, Your Honor, this trimester is putting in Verin the Cervix cancer screening program, which has never existed. I understand, Your Honor, that lies are easy. Look, Mr. Caballero, on the scene you have occupied — who have occupied many others, be careful! — of lies about health we are full: "Pachi Vázquez says that Sergas lends 30 euros to doctors for raising up" — lies of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party. "To the PP health if it's priced, even advertising." If you want this role, I'll leave it to the president to update the prices. "The PP government wants to charge you for going to the doctor. With your vote you can avoid it." I'm going to give you the price that the Socialist Party said we were going to charge. "A consultation, EUR 67.22; a day of hospitalization, EUR 513.48; an emergency consultation"—this is round number— "EUR 206; an ultrasound, EUR 336.59". [[Laughter]] [[Laughter]] These are the lies of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party in the health of Galicia, Your Honor. This is the continued lie of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u57	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u58	Look, Your Honor, you have a serious problem. Socialist gentlemen, I haven't told a single truth lately. And now, as they've managed through the lie to build a coalition government with those who would never rule in Spain, they believe that from the Government you can still tell lies.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u59	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u60	But for Galicia the lies of the Socialist Party are not free. Mr. Knight, do you know how many pediatricians we could hire with 370 million euros we owe? Do you know how many pediatricians Galicians could have with 370 million euros the Socialist Party owes? Five thousand pediatricians, Mr. Caballero, five thousand pediatricians we could have with the 370 million euros we owe us!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u61	Finish it, Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u62	What's curious, Your Honor, is that you're the only autonomous leader of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party who is against the fact that autonomous communities are being returned to their collection in the autonomous communities.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u63	Finish, president. Mr. President, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u64	Look, the PSOE will have 16 general secretaries or presidents in autonomous communities who at least don't lie to people, and they agree that they've returned us what they stole. But here Pedro Sánchez really has a pet game, a pet. A pet that says what the boss says. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u65	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u66	If the chief says no, I spent the 2.5 billion on them and now they're not coming back, for Mr. Caballero says what the boss says.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u67	Mr. President, thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u68	Look, ladies and gentlemen, this is a matter that is serious enough not to come from pet party to give a rally in Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u69	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u70	What do you want the word for, Mr. Sánchez? Please, you have to know what the word is for. [[Murmurs.]] Right here, everybody's got it. Everyone has a right. Arguate me why you want to ask for the word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u71	Mr. Feijóo said textually, "You don't want to vaccinate the children." And I can stand...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u72	No, no, sorry! Sorry, listen. Now we're going to that, because if you're also trying to say that you're in favor of vaccinating the children, it seems to me to be a wonderful statement. But he said that he was a member of his party... yes, that he had defended that children were not vaccinated. [[Protests.]] And so do I. If you like, I'll give you the name. Please! So, if you want to correct that, you have the word. If you want to correct that, you have the floor. I'm giving it to her. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Please, please, please! Mrs Prado, please, the debate has been referred to for now. No, I'll talk about the debate for now. Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u73	Mr. President, I understand that you don't have to pick up everything you've said, but believe me, from respect to yourself, who said textually — and I point out — "You don't want to vaccinate the children." And I can endure many lies, many infamous, but as a father and as a politician, I will not tolerate anyone saying that about me, because it's also false. It's fake! [[Protests.]] Mr. Feijóo knows it's false at political and personal level, he knows it's false, and he uses it for a personal attack that I consider an infamy against my person and against my group, and I won't tolerate it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u74	Got it, got it, got it! It's understood and the allusions are done. [[Strong murmurers.]] You understand, and I've already understood that you're in favor of vaccinating a child, which I think is magnificent. Perfect! Perfect, really! Thank you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, I don't have to call him in order. I did what I had to do. I thought it was clarifier, and I also congratulated him for being in favour of vaccinating the children. It's the best measure you can take. All right, let's go. Institutional declaration
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u75	Now I'm going to read an institutional statement, which is very important, on the annual Memorial Day in memory of the victims of the Holocaust. "On November 1, 2005, the United Nations General Assembly, at its 42nd plenary meeting, reaffirmed that the Holocaust, which resulted in one third of the Jewish people and countless members of other minorities being killed, will always be a warning to the whole world of the dangers of hatred, fanaticism, racism and prejudice. And he also decided to designate January 27th — in memory of the liberation by the Soviet troops and allies of the Auschwitz-Birkenau extermination camp on January 27th 1945 — as the International Day of the Annual Commemoration in memory of the victims of the Holocaust, all of them victims of Nazism and among whom are also Welsh. The Holocaust is the result of a program of persecution, imprisonment and extermination carried out by Nazism, which killed more than 6 million people. He came from an attempt to eliminate political and ideological dissident and came from a genocide which he reported with the collaboration of the Franco-Francist dictatorship, and which pursued thousands of men and women who fled the Spanish state after the defeat of the Republic in 1939 and after the establishment of a fascist regime. In particular, this Parliament would like to remind the more than ten thousand Spanish Republicans who ended up being deported to the Nazi camps by the collaboration of dictator Francisco Franco with German Nazism and Italian fascism. According to some historical sources, about two hundred of them were natives of Galicia and died where they were released, but they could never return because the franchise dictatorship, which had previously withdrawn their nationality, denied them the right to return to their country of origin. For all this, the Galician Parliament echoes the statement by the General Assembly of the United Nations in which it rejected any denial, either partial or total, of the Holocaust as a historical fact. And he unequivocally condemned — he condemns this Parliament as well — all manifestations of religious intolerance, incitement, harassment or violence against people or communities based on ethnic origin or religious beliefs, wherever they take place. It calls upon the Union to work everywhere against possible outbreaks of racism, xenophobia, anti-Semitism and other discrimination based on ethnic origin or religious beliefs and citizens and their organizations to remain vigilant so that no more a regime like what the Holocaust has produced can sit between us or anywhere in the world. Santiago de Compostela, January 29, 2020" [[Approved by consent.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u76	Now we continue with the agenda, in this case, non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the position of the Galician Parliament regarding the agreement of the Madrid Assembly calling for the illegalization of certain political parties
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u77	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the non-law proposition Mr. Bará has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u78	Thank you, President. It became clear to us in this intervention that Mr. Fexóo is nervous, is altered, is upset and is angry at the agreement signed by the BNG for investment. I don't know if they have nightmares at night, but I'd recommend that the People's Group make an urgent purchase of Trankimagin...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u79	Wait. [[Murmurs.]] Please! Please, let's not lose the north! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Don't tell me from the rostrum or encourage people to Trankimagin, which is a very dangerous drug, please! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's try not to use those words... please, I'm serious! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Please! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Then I ask you, please, a little bit of tenderness. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They don't use that, because it's an active principle that has a lot of complications and maybe people listen to us and indirectly lead her to do something we shouldn't... Please, Mr Bará, I ask you not to use that. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet! [[Murmurs.]] Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u80	Mr. President, there's a rhetorical figure that already used the Romans and the Greeks, which is irony...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u81	Good.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u82	I know that you are a master also of irony; therefore, do not spare me my ability to use irony.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u83	But don't say the name.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u84	Anyway, I recommend that you make an urgent purchase of a muscle relaxant... and step by step, you can also order the contraceptives for jabaris, which I proposed yesterday by the People's Party. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I think here you have to relax, on the one hand, the population of jabaris; and on the other hand, the instincts of the right, of the People's Party, by urgently buying these drugs, because the thing is getting out of control. And, of course, why are you so angry and so upset with Mr. President of the Union? I said Trankimagin! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u85	That's why. Very bad! Very bad! [[Laughter]] It's not like this. It's going well. [[Murmurs.]] I don't like this vocabulary you're using, I really tell you. Because we're talking about an active substance, which is alprazolam, with a lot of complications. They want it or not, we're looking at a lot of people, and that's the name of a drug that in vulgar language we're all using every day. Please don't do this because it's a terrible damage. Please! [[Murmurs.]] Nothing else. I'm done here now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u86	A muscle relaxant. And why are you so nervous and upset, angry? Why do you have nightmares about the president of the board? Because the BNG investment agreement highlighted its inability to defend the country's interests for ten years when it ruled the People's Party. That's why he's so angry, and because he did more than one BNG deputy in a month than the People's Party and Mr Fexóo in ten years. This is what pros, this is what hurts, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. BNG has done what the Government of the Union should do all these years. Because, where were you when you were ruling yours in Madrid? They were being the helpful fools of the People's Party of Madrid, and so things went with us. And that's why they have to send letters now, and that's why BNG had to negotiate all these issues, because they were still pending, unresolved, like transfers or AP-9. [[Murmurs.]] Don't you realize that this agreement makes the proposal made by the People's Party in relation to AP-9 ridiculous? If we're doing the job for them! If we're putting it in the tray! What else do you want? You should thank him! We didn't ask for that, but at least... And, look, you're going to buy more of those products that you can't mention here, of the relaxing ones, because this is just the beginning, it's just the investment agreement; now there's going to be other agreements, other negotiations, where the BNG will use its strength, since there's a government in the minority. This is what we've been saying for so long: that we're going there to take advantage of Galicia's interests. If BNG is, Galicia is. And that's what bothers you, that's what bothers you. Don't worry, this was just the beginning. And, look, I'm going to tell you something like that, speaking in confidence, you know what PSOE negotiators were saying all these weeks? 'Cause that was a process of several weeks: no one asks us what you're asking us for, no one wants this level of realization. BNG knew how to use his letters to get all those negotiations and all those agreements, and that's what pros. But, look, we're concerned about this attitude of the People's Party and we're concerned about that reactionary and extremist drift on the right, which is also part of the People's Party and the People's Party in Galicia. Because you want to go through progress and you don't get to "chachis." That's the reality of the Galician People's Party: they want to go from one thing to another and they're not; you're the same thing as the extreme racist, masquerade, old-fashioned right, who's bellowing to their broads because you've opened the way for them and because you're dealing with them in government, in institutions, and going with them to demonstrations. [[Applause]] Or isn't it true that Mr. Fexóo has changed his agenda as President of the Board to serve the reactionary, Spanish-based agendar of the ultra-right and go to the Colon demonstration? That's the way the People's Party acts. We find it very worrying about the nature of the People's Party living with the ultra-right, how it shares its idea, how legitimate that fascist and racist ideology and buys its political agenda. Mr Aznar has already made it clear that he is also the ideologue of all that in the FAES: we meet because we are the same thing, we are the same ideology. If they have their DNA, they're the sons and daughters of the People's Party! What happens is that this is not an isolated fact, this is part of a reactionary, extremist, fascist and international racist movement involving Trump, Salvini, Bolsonaro, Le Pen, Orban and also the Spanish right of one and another color, which are sharing, which are promoting, that idea. And the People's Party has a great historical responsibility to feed, to fatten, to whiten that reactionary idea ultra and façade. Of course, there's a little bit of an institutional statement from the Holocaust. And in that statement it was said, "It is a call to the Union to work against the possible outbreaks of racism and xenophobia and to remain vigilant so that no more a regime like what the Holocaust has produced can settle between us and anywhere in the world." But if you're doing what you're doing, it's feeding precisely that racist ideology, xenophobic! You're not staying vigilant so you can't repeat what happened because you're feeding it. You should isolate and eradicate that seed and avoid feeding those fears, those lies, those manipulations, which want to convert the different, the discrepant, the scapegoats of all these crises caused by capitalism and the lack of democracy in the Spanish state: the economic crisis, the social crisis, the political crisis and the democratic crisis. They're using those fears, those lies, to stigmatize, to blame. They're doing it, don't say no!, to blame migrants, migrants minors; and this is absolutely disgusting and disgusting. And you're being accomplices and co-participants to those hatreds and fears. So a lot of Holocaust conviction statements, but they start by condemning, by eradicating, and by not contracting with those who defend that idea, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. They are also responsible for trying to introduce censorship, prohibition, enhancement, targeting and denouncing to those in schools that transmit values of tolerance, diversity and education in democratic values as well. And we say it is clear: we will not consent!, we will not allow it! You're promoting it. And it's also the responsibility of the People's Party to give a letter of nature to that macho idea that denies gender violence, violence against women and wants to assimilate it into other forms of violence. They're promoting it, they're approving it where you rule with the extreme right. So they don't want to make progress when they don't get to "chachis." And we tell you and your allies on the far right: that feminist revolution is an unstoppable process, and that, for a lot of reaction, that will give us only arguments to defend more rights, more freedoms and more conquests for women. As we also transferred the investment agreement with the Socialist Party. We will be radically opposed and we have to stand here in this Parliament, so we bring here this motion for a resolution against racism, against machismo, against fascism, against those who want to illegalize democratic forces that defend legitimate ideas, such as, for example, the right of self-determination - you have not found out that you are recognized in the International Charter of Civil and Political Rights - against whom you want to attack us as a people, against whom you want to attack us as a people, against our language, our identity, who question our self-government, against whom you question this Parliament too; of course, against whom you want to attack our language, as also put in writing the People's Party in its electoral programme of past general elections. So don't come here and make yourselves look like something else. You've also made this campaign infamous against Greek in the elections of 2009, because you've never had such a disgusting, infamous and disgusting attack on our language as you did at the time. So, ladies and gentlemen, we are in a dilemma, this is a battle for democracy, for pluralism, for human rights, for women's rights, for public freedoms; it's also a battle in defense of the self-government of Galicia, which is being questioned, attacked, by those political forces that deal with you. And the People's Party, directly the People's Party, has to say here which side it's on. You have to say it by voting on this proposal, which has four points. One is the rejection of the Madrid Assembly's agreement on the illegalization of democratic parties, which put them there "to guard against the unity of Spain". It is that we can defend ourselves in a democracy ideas that are also against, that they argue that Spain is not an immutable entity, that what is immutable, in any case, is democracy, but Spain is not immutable, and the right of self-determination is an internationally recognized right. [[Applause]] Also the defense of self-government, political pluralism and the officiality of the Greek language, and the condemnation of macho attacks against women's rights and freedoms. A call must also be made from this Parliament to the Greek society and institutions to isolate, to fight, to break the lies and not to come to covenants with that extreme masquerade, racist and old-fashioned right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u87	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u88	It is in their hands to decide which side they are on, whether they are on the side of democracy or whether they are on the side of those who attack self-government, of those who attack democracy, of those who...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u89	Thank you. Thank you, Mr Bará. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u90	...inhabit and live with...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u91	Thank you. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u92	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. A few weeks ago the party led by the fascist Abascal registered in Congress a bill to repeal the Law of Historical Memory. He also presented a proposal to reform the Party Law to illegalize any independentist or nationalist formation. This initiative comes a few months after the angry motherhood or homeland — here it takes more people than you — had adopted a non-law proposal at the Madrid Assembly that called for the illegalization of these parties. By means of a press round Abascal assured that his intention is to illegalize all parties who claim to "the destruction of national unity", thus attempting to illegalize all parties who do not explicitly collect in their statutes, in their founding acts or in their political ideals the fulfilment of the Spanish Constitution itself. In this document Vox states that "a political party shall be declared illegal when its activity violates democratic principles, particularly when it pursues to undermine or destroy the regime of freedoms or prevent or eliminate the democratic system, as well as when it pursues to deteriorate or destroy national sovereignty or the indissoluble unity of the Spanish nation." This looks almost like a fragment of a 17th-century document. Fascism in our country never ceased to exist, that is, of course, was going through other hidden homes, which not far away, what happens is that now it begins to squeeze. The adoption at the Madrid Assembly of this proposal poses a very serious threat to self-government in self-government, and that is why you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, must support this initiative if you want to maintain social and political unity and make effective the weight of the democratic majority. Here's the health cordon BNG in the face of any further attempt to obtain political or electoral advantage through the use of these populist messages. We fully agree, and that is why we are going to support this non-law proposal. But, look! for that, it is necessary that those who call themselves constitutionalist parties, such as the People's Party, do not reach agreements with this kind of party or give viability to initiatives like this one we are talking about, this non-law proposition of the Madrid Assembly, no longer for not talking about leaving the Greek president with this person in the picture with the flag of Falanxe behind. We must view political plurality as a positive asset to fight against this kind of totalitarianism, and for this we must all parties remain united in the defence of human rights, even if we have feelings of national belonging that are different. Vox recovered the idea of illegalizing independent parties, but look! Because Pablo Casado has already done so in 2017 when he was not yet the "loved leader" of the People's Party. He then said: "Spanish legality does not have an organic law of parties that still foresees illegalization and promotes independence. I would include it in my personal capacity." Pablo Casado said this three years ago, or two years ago. We're going to go around Europe to see how they go around with this illegalizing sovereign political organizations. In Germany, the secession and the organizations that promote it are not prohibited and the illegalization of the Independentist Party of Bavaria has never been considered, for example. In France, no independent parties are prohibited, nothing forbids the existence of independent parties, all over the national territory from Corsica to Britain. In Italy, no independent parties are banned, there is the North League and others. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I was told by Mr. President, Mr. Santalices, there is nothing in that institutional statement, when he gave the definition of Nazism, which was the result of a program of persecution and extermination of political and ideological dissident. They'll cut off as soon as possible before homophobia, xenophobia, machismo and fascism, because if they don't, you'll also be homophobia, fascists and homophobics. We have a very big chance with this one -- if they have it -- if they deal with them, it'll be the same. You have a chance today. If you deal with Vox, you'll be the same as them. [[Murmurs.]] You have a very great opportunity today to amend yourself. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u93	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. For the Joint Left Group, Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we, first of all, want to say that we are going to support this initiative of the Galician Nationalist Block in all its points, without any doubt. Then, to give the debate, of course, we would like to know or to clarify in your turn with PP we are going to speak with this House: if we were to speak to the People's Party of Morocco, which also agreed with Bildu, it was even with them of wine—Bildu, the heirs of Otegi; the PP spoke of Bildu so as to arrive at agreements in Victoria, and there were government agreements in the Basque Chamber that were reached with Bildu—; if we were to talk about PNV, Convergence i Unió at the time of the memorable Mr. Aznar; if we were to talk only about the present time of Mr. Maroto, who then also uses the rights of the Bolivarian progressives, state breakers and communists in order to be able to marry your partner against the ideologies of your party; or if we are going to speak to the People's Party of Ayuso or Andalusia, who are making the three times of pride-face, in that maximum political schizophrenia that you at this moment. [[Murmurs.]] We usually see embarrassing debates in the chambers. We all have to assume contradictions right now with the pacts; we too, because Spain and Galicia are sure that they no longer want most absolutists anyway. They vote pacts and everyone needs to know the purpose of their pacts, so that it will agree, which are their limits and their red lines. You always argue in this House that you don't want to talk about agreements with Vox, because Vox doesn't get representation in Galicia. We'll see if it's out or not. What we have of course is that for now they deal with Jacome, the mayor of Ourense, in the House of Ourense, who is like Vox or worse. In my opinion, as a honourable Member, you are dealing with Jacome, who denies, for example, macho violence. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] And if that's what you say, why do we talk all the time, why does Mr. Feijóo talk all the time -- not to mention the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks -- of ERC or Bildu, when they don't have a seat in this House? What is your plan, gentlemen of the People's Party? In any hypothetical situation in Galicia would they do the same as in Catalonia in recent years? Police charges... would they take the opportunity to exercise their political ideas freely to Members or Members whom we call nationalists or who engage in independent organizations, such as my colleague Antonio Sánchez or as I put forward this initiative, Mr. Luís Bará Torres? Would they illegalize Anova, or BNG? What would the People's Party do? I don't think Mr. Puy or Mr. Santalices, for his political and ideological background and the democratic institutional respect they show in this House, were comfortable or supported. Or is it? Or would they support it? Don't they get the guts to have government and ideological agreements with a party that denies and breast-feeds violence against women and murders against women, the murders we've suffered in recent times in Galicia, like the last in the past in the Pastoriza, or the triple machist murder in Valga; with forces that are racist, that defend franchiseism, that are homophobic? To those forces until he ended up invalidating his twitter for inciting hate. He called on his spokesperson at the Madrid Assembly for incitement to hate, Mrs. Monasterio. Is this the price for power, gentlemen of the People's Party? This is the price for power. Do they agree on ideology or do they agree on these? Why do you make a deal? [[Mrs. Santos Queiruga shows you a ticket to the House]] We'd like to know. I don't know how, ladies and gentlemen, they'll be able to defend their position, because it gives the feeling that you, by power, will agree and sell your soul to the devil. I don't know how they're going to survive the ridicule they do and when it's going to prove that this state won't be Venezuela or Iran, that it won't come back ETA, that no communism will be installed and that it won't be broken up Spain, that I heard it on that TeleMadrid so independent of Mrs. Aguirre as the TVG, that the first time I arrested her in 2009, coming back from Catalonia, from working for three and a half years, it announced, it opened the newsrooms, with: "Spain breaks down" in an absolutely apocalyptic way. You have to choose, you have to choose between being placed in the majority of society, democracy, civil liberties and civil liberties or continuing in the petty, radical and fascist frenzy of Vox. They have to choose well for the good of the state as a whole, for the sake of the future of our country, of the future of freedoms, democracy, of their own families, because, they do well what they do and with whom they agree and the positions they defend so radical, so backward and so petty — I repeat — for each one we occupy this House and each one we live in both the state and this German country, which constantly attacks this political force in this frenzy which we believe has never before since we don't want to remember any more. So, with their vote, they're going to show where they are, and they're going to tell who they're touching...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u95	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u96	...whether ideology or these, because there are no more excuses, gentlemen of the People's Party. [[Mrs. Saints Queiruga shows a ticket again.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence! I don't know, but... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Now there are spokespersons, each group has its own spokesperson, let them speak. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u99	Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] Silence! Please, Mr. Cal! Please! No, I don't want fights on the bench; you have your seats. No, please... please, everybody, hey! I don't want... this isn't allowed in Parliament. Lord Cal and lords of the People's Party, no, not that. We've got a rostrum, eh! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We have a rostrum. Quiet, please! There's a rostrum, let's not start in the corridors. Please, we will not allow it in this Parliament. Let us not take for example other parliaments that we see around there, eh! Here you go to the gallery and there are spokespersons for that. Well, you avoid all the insults from here and there, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's all have a little quiet. Mr. Álvarez Martínez, anytime.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u100	Thank you again, Mr. President. The Madrid Assembly urges the Government of the nation to immediately illegalize those separatist parties that attack the unity of the nation with the legal instruments at its disposal and proceed with legal reforms that enable it to do so. It urges the European Union to register the so-called CoR, the Committees for the Defence of the Republic, on the list of criminal and terrorist organizations, and to this end forward the files with the legal investigation data followed by the National Court. And finally, to be immediately suspended from any payment and, if necessary, to revoke and order the reintegration of any kind of public grant and aid which could have been perceived by any autonomous public body as the so-called CDR or any other association or organization directly or indirectly related to it. And that's what we're talking about or we should be talking about it. They have already made reference to those who preceded me in this institutional statement which we have just adopted in this Parliament unanimously, like all institutional declarations, and to their impact that the origin of the problem was the elimination of any political dissident. This problem is so serious that it is normal that tension, but it is also normal for all of us here that, in principle, we must assume that we are democrats - and I believe so - we should have enough quietness to deal with a subject of this transcendence and of this magnitude with the rest that must be primary in a response to such an extremely savage attack as we are suffering by those who have taken this initiative to Parliament. He was speaking - and Mr. President of the Union said in his speech - that the Government of Spain was built on lies, and I frankly believe that this is a very bad statement and that he aligns himself with who is behind the initiative. And look! I'm not saying by far that the People's Party and Vox are the same; don't be confused that I'm not even insinuating that. But what is true is that the People's Party at the Madrid Assembly has made an attempt to amend this non-Vox bill, which has not accepted it and which, in the end, has voted it. And that's particularly serious; it's very serious. There are decisions that have very difficult explanation, very difficult justification, although they are supported in a pact for the governance of an autonomous community because they end up having consequences of very difficult forecasting right now and, of course, of very difficult going back when you get to scenarios where I frankly don't want to see this country again. Because the ideas, ladies and gentlemen - we all know - do not commit, unless they express hatred or incite violence. And independentists can want and dream with independence, just like Vox does with a uniform Spain, without autonomous communities and denying all the diversity that enriches us. It is the initiative of a party that confuses or equates — which is almost worse — immigration and crime, violence of masculine gender with inter-family violence, the right to education in values with the abduction by the State of the children of families. And I also want to remind you that in a dangerous drift from the leader of the People's Party, he made public statements saying that the state took out the hands of his children. That's particularly dangerous. Political groups, autonomic parliaments, Congress and Senate don't decide who he is and who he isn't a terrorist. That, in a rule of law like the Spanish State, the judges decide it, decide it by justice, which are the ones in a rule of law -- I repeat -- they are to judge and execute the trial, by applying the law. And this is known by any Democrat, be liberal, be conservative, be socialist, be independent; anyone knows. The 1978 Constitution, whether legitimately questioned or not, with its shortcomings and virtues, has brought great progress because it has surpassed with intelligence, pragmatism and generosity a Spain that distinguished between good Spaniards and bad Spaniards. He made huge advances to Spain. And I say, where do we put the limit to this intent? In the Republican Left of Catalonia, in Junts per Cat, not the Basque Nationalist Party, in EH Bildu, not the Galician Nationalist Block? Can you really look at the face of these Members and Members and tell them that they are suspected criminals? Can you really subscribe, looking towards Members and Members of my parliamentary group, that we encourage pedestia? Can you really defend, looking at any of these Members, who are part of a dangerous ideology and who must be illegalized or who induce pederasty? Frankly, ladies and gentlemen, we have a very important opportunity for this Parliament, this autonomous community, to oppose these absolutist ideas...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u101	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u102	...that they will never be able to bring anything good for any of us. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u103	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos Couñago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u104	Thank you very much, President. New year, old habits. What a curious way of asking for support from the People's Party of Galicia! Looks like someone got confused and instead of taking the relaxant that I was recommending must have taken the contraceptive for jabaris. Today the BNG brings us here a proposal totally alien to the reality of Galicia, totally alienated from the real interests of the Greeks and the Greeks. Since the last plenary session in this House we have had very important news from Madrid: delay of the AVE confirmed by Europe and the Foreign Minister; not to the adoption of the Statute of Intensives, committed to the first Council of Ministers - four -; progress in the final closure of the Bridges, with prizes, in addition to the one who is burying this central; promised the 100 percent bonus of the fee of the AP-9 for applicants, reduced twice already by socialist charges, and of the 370 million that owe us - which 200 we have already been told we forgot, because this is what you don't care about - What matters most to you is to reject an agreement from another autonomous chamber, which must be less sovereign than this one, and which you yourselves qualify on your own initiative as of null legal effectiveness. And why? Because you are participating in a dangerous game: on the one hand, they are demonizing a political party that in Galicia, by the way - I remember - I did not get a Member, a Senator, an Autonomic Member or a Councilman; on the other hand, they are willing to become the political speaker of that group to give you visibility in the hope that the Galician People's Party will be deprived of a final seat in the next elections. That's the reality. Vox is the Trojan horse you need to rule Galicia. And if the case comes up - I hope it won't come - you will deal with Vox. Because Mr. Ortega Smith has already said that his goal is the same: "Let's come and cast the Beetle of the Board." Look, they tried with you illegally in the 28A electoral debate, they shook the phantom of franchiseism during the 10N, funded with the ERE of Andalusia an extreme right-wing party: "The AES presentation in Madrid was paid to cause electoral damage to the PP" - this is at the judicial headquarters -. And they refuse to agree with Vox, but no one believes them. You know why? Because, look: "We will not compromise with populism, because, in the end, populism is Chávez's Venezuela, poverty, reasoning cards, lack of democracy and inequality." Consequence: Navalcarner Kirchner in the Moncloa complex. "With Bildu we're not going to make a deal. I tell you five times, I tell you twenty?" Do you want us to ask the Navarres whether or not they've agreed to Bildu? And now they're talking about isolating Vox, because any dialogue with Vox is whitening fascism. Let me read you an enterprising Missive. Manuscript: "Dear Rocío, after the autonomous elections to the Madrid Assembly, I wish to hold a meeting with you in order to talk about the next steps in the community and the vision in which you have your training. The candidacy I headed has managed to be the most voted and therefore I understand that I must keep this conversation with you as soon as possible. A hug. Angel Gabilondo." [[Murmurs.]] Because, of course, if the PP comes to some agreement or dialogue with some group, that's to whiten fascism, but if it does so the PSOE, that's mere courtesy; of course yes, Your Honor, mere courtesy. Of course, the PPdEG, since they ask, will never compromise against civil rights, the People's Party of Galicia will never compromise against women's rights, the People's Party of Galicia will never compromise against Galicia's interests, and when the People's Party of Galicia says "never" is ever. Yes, we don't have the habit of reaching agreements with those who insult us or with those who justify violence as a weapon for politics. [[Applause]] So the PPdeG, in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, is the party — and it assumes — that most looks like the Greeks and the Greeks; a central party, a moderate party, a tolerant party and even now the only hope Galicia has that our community will stay away from any kind of extremism. I said to Mrs. Santos, "We have to choose." If we have to choose, we choose Galicia, don't hesitate. [[Applause]] Look, the extremists, Your Honor, are others. The extremists are the ones who disqualify anyone who disagrees with them, because, of course, right here today -- but, well, this is already immemorial -- how many times has it been called Fascist-Francist PP? We lost count. Now the fascist is Vox. But look at what Sánchez said to Ribera: "He's put on a jacket that smells like naphthaline, that of the ultra-right," so, Mr. Ribera, a fascist. "The Scrache of Pablo Iglesias a Rosa Díez at the Faculty of Politics, where he boycotted a conference to the spokesperson of UPyD under the slogan of "Out of Fascists of the University" —i.e., UPyD, Fascists—... "The socialist regional presidents Page and Lambán would not rule out illegalizing the independent parties"—then García Page, fascist and Mr Lambán, fascist. Hey!, Beiras: "The PP is a party that should be illegalized" - then Beiras, fascist. But if today you've called the fascist to Mr. Jacome! But what a joke this is, Your Honor! What a joke this is! Look, Galicia is a land of sensible people, and the problem of fascism in Galicia lives exclusively...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u105	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u106	..in their heads. I'm done and I'm allowed to paraphrase a great cartoon in Xaquín, which says what you have to interiorize: "The more fascist you see one around it is because the more fascist you are one." Please let them shake ghosts which, fortunately, by Galicia do not dwell anywhere, except in their heads.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u107	Thank you, Mr. Pazos. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u108	He says the People's Party representative that they will always defend the civil rights and rights of women. For it does not appear, because day and day are also adopting measures in all parliaments, in all places where they are ruling with the ultra-right, to approve such measures. Also here are introducing Troy's horses from the far right fascist, racist, and machist, for example, when they come by the back door, and if it's related, parental coordination or when they do, for example, parental alienation syndrome. That's what they're taking through the back door the agenda of the far-right machist and fascist. And, of course, I have here a statement by Mr. Maroto - who I don't know whether he's from the People's Party or whether he's gone, like Mr. Sémper - who says, "Maroto defends his pacts with Bildu and wants him to set the example." Look, do you know how many times you've agreed to vote with Bildu in the Euskadi Parliament? More than 50 times, 23 institutional statements were signed with Bildu. Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Explained words not perceived]] So what are we talking about? And I won't remind you when Mr. Aznar negotiated with ETA and spoke of that glorious movement of Basque national liberation. I don't know if you now deny Mr Aznar's past. Look, the only antidote against the ultra-right in Galicia is the BNG, and it became clear in the elections last November, when we stood at the far-right fascist, machist and ancient, who had the possibility of entering the Crown and did not enter because there was the BNG. We have entered the BNG and it is going, because Galicia is on the map of the state, in the debates of the state and in the state agreements, and we have made great progress towards Galicia, indeed. And look, do you know where there is, precisely, representation of the ultra right, that extreme right, machist, fascist that you feed? Where there is more nationalism and more sovereignty because Vox has no representation in Euskadi, Catalonia, Navarre and Galicia, precisely. I don't know if it'll be a coincidence, but there's some coincidences there. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] I told you, democracy is bigger than Spain -- you don't have it in your mind -- it's bigger than Spain's unity. Democratic values are above all that. And you have to know which side they're on and which side they want to put on. They need to know whether they are on the side of democracy and also on the side of Galician self-government, which is being questioned also in this Parliament by those forces with which you agree. We are very concerned that Mr Feijóo is going to manifest himself at the Colón square with the ultra-right, and that he also says naturally in this Parliament that he would have no problem in dealing with Vox - he said here in parliamentary headquarters - if he needed it. And that means buying you your schedule, which you're already buying from all over the state.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u109	Thank you, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u110	Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, let us make it clear by your vote. Tell me which side are they on, whether they're on the side of democracy, on the side of self-government, on the side of Galicia, or on the side of the forces...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u111	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u112	...others who defend racist, fascist, macho and ancient ideas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u113	Thank you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u114	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u115	Before we proceed with the next non-legislation proposal, let's say hello to students and students of 6th grade. I think it's the first group of Pedro Barrie de la Maza center in Sada. Welcome to Parliament. And we also greet the teachers and their companions. And, yes, we continue with a proposal, in this case of the People's Parliamentary Group. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Raquel Arias Rodríguez and nine other Members, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in order to simplify the process of return of Spain and its families
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u116	There are amendments to the Joint Parliamentary Group and to the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u117	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs Arias has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u118	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the students and teachers who accompany us here today. The People's Party today presents an initiative with which it seeks to draw attention and also to fix the bureaucratic problems that state level are having the Welsh and the Greeks who live outside and want to return to their land, because it is not fair that for many of these people the main problems to come precisely the bureaucratic ones. That the Greeks are returning to Galicia is a reality; a reality that is consolidated in the last decade and is consolidating and conforming year by year. If last century was the century of emigration, this is called the century of return. But besides, the Greeks are the emigrants who most return to their community of origin. And the figures at the National Institute of Statistics are clear. In 2018 -- the last whole year of the data we have -- 7,024 Welsh and Welsh returned to Galicia, 7% more than the previous year. What we've been doing with legislation has returned 20,000. And in the last ten years, they've returned 42,000. Specifically, 107% more than they did in 2009. Some come from countries that are experiencing a profound economic and social crisis, such as Venezuela, but many others return from other countries, such as Switzerland, which do not have this problem and which are in the second place, such as Brazil, the United States, the United Kingdom, etc. Some return to their homes after a whole career, others do it because they think they're improving their working conditions here, both theirs and their families. In fact, 80% of those who returned last year were under 65, and half were under 45. Junta has been creating the conditions for all those Greeks who are in the diaspora for years, well those who were born here and if they were, well the descendants who live there and have nationality, they can return to their homeland. He does this because it's a moral obligation we have with all those people. But, in addition, it's a golden opportunity we have to face the demographic challenge. And, in fact, the Demographic Impulse Law which this same Monday entered the Galician Parliament devotes an entire chapter to facilitating the return of the Greeks and the Greeks. In addition to all the measures that it launched in Galicia in the last decade, in 2018 it reinforced all of them, including and carrying out a strategy, the Strategy Back 2020. It's a strategy with 235 million euros and 50 measures from all the councils to attract in three years 20,000 Greeks and Greeks out there, and half that are under 45 years old. The figures I've given you have already seen that the challenge is being met. Together you go with them at every stage of their return, since they're thinking about going back until they sit here and start a new life here. In fact, the Integral Office for Advice and Follow-up to the Return attended 8,000 consultations last year and it was also the first year in which headquarters were established in all the provinces of Greece: counselling, guidance, but also important direct economic aid, in the social, training, work or self-employment field. Measures that, in addition to encouraging return through economic support, are also aimed at helping them to save those bureaucratic constraints they find. However, the powers of the Union in this area are limited. The bureaucratic procedures, mostly those with the most problems, are the exclusive competence of the State. And the Government has to take urgent action and speed up these kinds of procedures, which sometimes even make it impossible to return and many others make their integration difficult once they get to Galicia. We are referring, for example, to the approval of university degrees. When a Welshman who is outside wants to return and validate his university degree - the state's exclusive competence - it takes up to two years to do so. If that title isn't a university degree, Joine's competence, less than three months. That difference is that there can't be, because no one can be two years waiting to get a job according to their training simply because of a bureaucratic procedure that doesn't approve their studies. You can't afford the returnee, but you can't afford Galicia either, because it turns out that at that time we're losing talent and we're losing chances of having doctors, engineers and scientists here. That's why it's essential to speed up these procedures. Processes that must also be speeded up on work and residence permits. Many of the families coming in are mixed couples where one of the members has no nationality, or children. In that case, they get into a bureaucratic mess that wastes them a lot of time and in which sometimes the tide is such that, depending on where they ask for information, they're going to tell them that they have to present some papers or others. And then, once they're presented and once they do the proceedings, they come back a long time later, in many cases saying they're denied because they lack things or they're ill-presented. Well, to see what that situation is in these people's lives, there's no more to go to the Crown, to the Government's delegation, and to see the rows of people who try to do this procedure every day. On some occasions already for the second or third time. We demand that management be more flexible and simple, because we're talking about basic rights that, for returnees with mixed couples, become privileges. A special procedure must be established to grant a temporary residence permit for families of Spanish nationals without nationality which will allow them to first establish themselves and then consolidate a definitive permit. Another of the obstacles is in the driver's position, which is fundamental to being able to enter the labour market, but also often even for independence. A few weeks ago, I was told by a lady of Sovereignty who had been living in Canada for 40 years and driving. When he came here he had to, at the age of 70, get the driver's license, but it was crucial for her, because she lives in the countryside. Their independence depends to a large extent on having that driver's license, just like many others are dependent on work. Well, there are countries with problems -- Mexico, the United States, was talking about Canada, and with which it's important to establish a system so that this validation of the sheep can be done in a simple way. On other occasions the obstacles are economical. We are talking about those countries with important economic and social problems, as Cuba might be, as Venezuela can be, where sometimes it can get out and get to rule fundamental documents like passports, which they may need at some point in their life, or which they may need to come here, is simply impossible, because they don't have the money that costs them to get that documentation out. These specific needs must be met. In short, these are bureaucratic procedures that make it difficult to return and that are the sole competence of the State. These days we heard PSdeG leaders defend each and every one of the measures Sánchez does against the Greeks and they damage the Greeks. Always the game before Galicia. We also see these days as other Greek representatives who are in the Sánchez Government or who make it possible for that government too to shut up or speak very little, very low, about all these atrocities: the 370 million euros they owe us, the AVE that doesn't arrive, the companies against which they are acting day by day... well, gentlemen, today they have the opportunity to reverse that act. This initiative is not an initiative against anyone. It's an initiative for the Greeks and the Greeks. Support this initiative and demonstrate that for you there is Galicia and the Greeks as well as their political symbols. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u119	Thank you, Mrs Arias. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u120	Good morning. Thank you, Madam President. We remain in the world of politics-fiction and the country of fiction. The spokesperson for the People's Party said: the Union sets the right conditions for the return of migrants. I don't know if you believe this, if you have anything to do with the people who return. The reality is that most of those who come back are because they have no choice. That's the reality of those who are at work. Could you, for example, give us data on how many returnees do it with a decent employment contract in Galicia and that's why they come back, because they have appropriate return conditions? It would be nice to meet you. Or do they come back because they don't have any choice? The same causes and factors condition the limited capacity to welcome returned migrant persons, as well as the low immigration rate in general. All this, mixed with the last big migration wave in our country. And why? Why all this? For a truly lack of a development model that allows you to live and work with dignity here. Labour insecurity is the norm, as well as the lack of decent jobs in productive sectors, the industrial crisis, which does not face the energy transition, the dismantling of the agricultural sectors, where many immigrants could be accommodated. The Greek gain should develop in thought of a flow of very strong immigrants, but not, of course, we must put the means. There is no investment in innovation and a lack of dignity for researchers. The Greek Public Administration itself makes employment precarious, thus promoting emigration from sectors such as health. That's why we don't have pediatricians later. Sinala Isidro Dubert, a great expert in migration movements, which we have placed in recent years on Galicia's fifth migration strike throughout history, started in 2005 and 2015. I guess about 380,000 boys and girls left the country. There should be a census of how many of these 380,000 returned from 2016. That is what we have in mind, for sure, all of us in this Parliament, with our own families. I, in fact, have already suffered with two children in emigration and with the third engineer in Electronics and Automatics, to whom they offer three times as much salary in Germany as you are receiving at this time in Galicia. So to talk about improving the conditions for the return of the people of Greece in the diaspora requires not only to lay down duties on the Government of the State - which are very well and are necessary, especially in the proceedings - but to go to the core of the problem and use its own competences to create worthy development opportunities in Galicia. The composition of immigrants to Galicia in the last year reflects an increase of returnees and returned Welsh from abroad, that's true, but within the context of negative vegetative balance does not compensate for the reality of the destruction of our country's population. We have a positive migration balance right now, but we need to analyze that the exits are still young people with no job opportunities, and an important part of the return is people who have finished their work in the foreign country or others who don't have an alternative work abroad and come to Galicia to see if they have an opportunity because of their family ties, but not because they already have a secure future of decent work. The importance of diaspora is collected in the Autonomy Statute, which provides that the interests of Welsh women living abroad are present in the decisions of the autonomous community. That's why the People's Party, the government group, can't just come here asking the Government of the State for things like it's been doing for months. It is essential that a proactive attitude, and that is why our amendment goes, which, on the one hand, completes the first point of the proposal not of the People's Party's law, incorporating, in addition, the possibility and necessity that all these people descended from Greeks not only be given residence but also nationality. And then essentially the priority for people to come back is that the Galician Union has to develop policies that change the current situation of why a girl with a top level engineering degree has a salary of 900 euros right now in Galicia, when they're offering her more than 3,000, for example, in Germany. That's the point of the problem, and that's what we should talk about. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u121	Thank you very much, Mr. Casal. The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor to Mrs Vilán Lorenzo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u122	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. This morning we went to a... I don't know what to call it, Mitin, to the electoral propaganda made by the President of the Galician Union using the German Parliament. And, curiously, in connection with this initiative, the feeling we have is the same, which is accompanied, in addition, by news today in the Region, which says, "The help of the Board allows us to open its bakery to a returnee." So they tell you how this gentleman has got a help -- which, so they say, is like anyone else in his situation -- of 7,000 euros, and 188 projects with the support of the Board. He talks about the great operation of the program, and, of course, there's a picture in which the Secretary General of Emigration and this gentleman are smiling, who, fortunately, was able to open a bakery after returning from Mexico. Of course, what strongly draws our attention is, firstly, that this initiative calls for urgent action, it speaks of measures urgently - the data that brings its own non-law proposal - and it is argued that the migration balance in 2018 was positive, the double that in relation to the year 2017 - go to the data of the National Institute of Statistics of the year 2018 -. Interestingly, until June he ruled Mr. Mariano Rajoy, and at that time you had no urgency, zero urgency. Now yes, now, all of a sudden, I don't know how many returnees they have. I don't know how many problems. They didn't have any before, because they had no problems homologating the driver's license, they had no problems homologating their titles, to obtain scholarships, they had no problems with residence permits, they had no problems either with the attention of Spanish nationality. The regulations were exactly the same as today, but there was no problem, everything worked out very well. But we already know that from June 2018 everything goes very wrong, the Spanish Government does everything very wrong and the Greek Government is like that announcement of "my dad fixes everything, everything, everything." Indeed, this is the initiative. You speak of countries of origin: the first, Venezuela; the third, Brazil; the fifth, United Kingdom. Something will have to do with the economic and social situation of Venezuela and Brazil - we assume, at best, not - because the first returnees to Galicia are Venezuelans, they lived in Venezuela. Something will have to look at Venezuela's situation, not so much that Galicia is brilliant for them to come and live here. And something will have to do with the UK, Brexit, let's assume that something like that will be. Success seems not so much about the work of the German Government, but about the bad situation in those three countries I've just talked about. With this initiative you want to cover up the demographic problem that Galicia has. Although a lot of people from these countries, for example, are actually returning from Switzerland or the United States, the problem is also in the rest of Spain, but less. We have less immigration and fewer people coming back than the rest of the country, 4 points less than in the state -- 4 points less! -- and we have a much worse demography than the rest of the country. You don't cover a hole with these news stories, please, because it shames us to see these things; it shames us. From Strategy Back 2020 - which, by the way, ends this year - you are practically silent. Do you buy the more than 50 measures that bring that strategy? Do you fully execute the EUR 235 million from the various autonomic departments? Because of the seven years budgeted by the General Secretariat of Immigration for the 2013 Galeguity Act, nearly 2.5 million euros are not executed. They fully enforce that Law of Galeguity. Why don't they ask the government to support them? Why do they only ask the Government of the State, who still has the same rules as Mariano Rajoy when he ruled for seven years? Now, all of a sudden, yes. In those seven years you haven't woken up, and now they have a lot of urgency. What does it mean to simplify, simplify and speed up, for example, for a driver's license? What does that mean? What do they give you or meat because you say: can I drive the car? Is that what it means? Because you were talking about legal insecurity yesterday. There can be no more legal insecurity than in the use of these three words. One of the demands of returnees is that they were, for example, affiliated to Social Security in Venezuela, Cuba or Brazil, when there is no real social security. Of course, it's gonna be hard for them to justify their membership in Social Security...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u123	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u124	By the way, Mariano Rajoy would also ask them, or I would ask you, and they didn't care. And then you talk about people without nationality. We assume that it will be without Spanish nationality, they won't talk about stateless people or stateless people... by the way, the Saharawis, you've never defended and they're not on this initiative either. It is that there is so much propaganda on this initiative that we really... we would like you to accept our amendment, which speaks not only of duties on the Government of the State -- that we ask them -- but also of the Government of Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Mr. Bará Torres has the floor by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u126	Mrs. Arias, cordially, I think you have become confused about parliament. You're so obsessed with the harassment strategy and I'm going down that they mark them from Madrid that, instead of taking initiatives to the State Parliament, they use the Welsh Parliament and the Galician Union for that trench, for those barricades that are digging, and they're worth everything. This initiative, I think, was more appropriate to deal with in the State Parliament. We also humbly offer you the Member who has the BNG - if you cannot do so by the 10 Members of the People's Party - to be able to register it and defend it there. Because if you don't, what you're doing is devaluing this Parliament and turning it into a branch of the Congress of Deputies and Members. They're blurring the debate, what happens is that it's perfectly planned and intentional, following the slogans that mark it from Madrid. Because, look at one thing, a question I have: all these bureaucratic obstacles, all this administrative maraña, have the Socialist Party and We Can in Madrid with this new government or had it already existed? Explain this to me. Before, that lady who knows about Sober, if she came five years ago, she wouldn't have any problem because she was running the People's Party in Madrid and she'd quickly fix all those procedures. So what have you been doing all this time? In addition, they have been ruling seven years in Madrid - from 2012 to 2018 - to remove all these obstacles, all these barriers, all this maraña, to be able to approve the titles, to be able to approve the driving licences, to speed up all those processings and all that paperwork. But what are we talking about? You guys want to take our hair off? You've been ruling for seven years and haven't solved any of this, and now they're beating their chests, crying out to the sky because you have to solve it right away. But they're kidding! This isn't serious. Anyway, I'm telling you, we're offering to move this demand, which seems to us a fair demand that the People's Party Government hasn't resolved when it's been ruling so that it can be resolved as soon as the Government it is now. I suppose you'll also come here and put us in the face that we didn't put this in the investment agreement. We didn't put the driver's license in the investment agreement. Yeah, well, "don't laugh, 'cause the story is sad," Castelao said. [[Laughter]] Look, the paradox of all of this is that you bring this initiative here when you have just voted against a proposal that brought this Parliament to the BNG to really deal with the serious tragedy, the serious problem this country has with emigration, which is a matter of national emergency because of the consequences it has for the present life and, above all, for the future of this country. And here we have a proposal - and you have voted against - to study, to analyze the causes, to create a study commission, with participation - for the part-ti-pa-tion, to which you are allergic - of all the people in the academy, the university, of all the sectors in this country to put their heads on thinking and looking for solutions, effective measures, to articulate policies, to tackle this serious problem, which is essentially going through two issues: by putting measures to give people decent work so that they don't have to go away from this country, because now young people have no decent working conditions, they have a precaution, they have temporary contracts and so they go back to this country, so that young people can make a project of autonomous life, because they have no chance of emancipation and access to housing, for example -- these are the problems that need to be solved -- and that they have to take action to get back to the people emigrants, actually, starting with that youth, to the last 50 years of this country, they have gone by this People's Nation's Nation's past. And for that the BNG has already proposed as well. Look, do you know what was the first step that brought the BNG to this Parliament in October 2016? The Plan Returns, with 1% of the budget, 100 million euros. And you turn out, three years later, they made a strategy, copying BNG's proposal. But we've spent three years on the path of this legislation. This legislation is a lost legislation on return, or return. That's what you guys do, and now they come here to teach us lessons and ask others to do what you haven't done. Anyway, it's not serious. So let's work with real and effective return policies and policies to deal with emigration, to end that precarious work, that precariousness, for example, of young researchers and researchers, who have to leave this country because they don't give them decent working conditions. Or the people of health. Now they complain that there are no professionals, that they've had to leave all these years of this country because they had and have slave labor conditions. That's why the solutions pass, Mrs Arias. So be serious and serious and don't bring us here questions that need to be discussed in other parliaments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u127	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. On the part of the Left Joint Group, Mrs Chao Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u128	Thank you, President. We have a proposal on the table that speaks of the return of emigrants, and, to the great surprise of the public, a great proposal by the People's Party in which the Government of the State urges to do something about it. You see, Mrs Arias, several things, first, one question: how long are you able to maintain this degree of cynicism? We have to ask you why, look, on March 17, 2017, I myself defended a proposal to develop a specific return plan for emigration people. What did the People's Party do? To vote against a specific plan that included key issues such as the promotion of employment or housing, which directly affects people who want to return to the country. More than a year later, on May 3, 2018, I myself brought another initiative to meet the educational needs of children and encourage return. And the People's Party, against what it had done in other territories, voted against; second time against. But there's more, it's just that every year of this legislation, our motions for resolutions in which we were dealing with this matter. The People's Party, every time they were told to do something about the return, voted against it. What did they tell us to vote against?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u129	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u130	Well, of course, deny the biggest, question the INE data, which indicates that more than 160,000 people under 34 years of age have left Galicia in the decade that you've been ruling. Of course, it's figures that shame any one: 1 out of 3 went abroad. But the People's Party, instead of getting to work, decided to say that we were dramatizing and that it was an adventurous spirit. That's a great statement! They denied the reality over and over again until the government decided, when it felt like it, to draw a plan of its own, or to announce it better. What does that mean? That we have lost two years of making active policies of return for their refusal to accept the opposition proposals, for their pride; also pride in refusing to answer, despite having the obligation, all the written questions we have recorded in this matter, one every year, to which the Government of Greece continues today without answering - to us, because the People's Party has no problem in answering them - But also because you were trying and still trying to deny the bottom of the matter, and this is the relevant thing: that the emigration of youth is the result of your failure. It's the result of a decade of wrong austerity policies that make our country not an attractive place for youth; the result of imposing precariousness as a way of life for all of us, their job reform, their cuts in employment policies, R & D+i and public services. That's why they're rectified, that's why they have to rectify it, but without saying it, trying to confuse the focus, talking about the return of children and grandchildren from emigration, something they've been filling up with in the newspapers for two weeks in a campaign that's really loud. And, of course, we agreed, I hope the Welsh diaspora wants to come back, but not just them and them. We aspire to Galicia being an interesting destination for immigration because that means something, that means that Galicia is moving forward, that is a country that works, that has opportunities, that has quality jobs, that has a future. We hope that Galicia will come all over the world; that everyone will find a country of opportunity in our country. And I say more to you, we aspire above all to the fact that the girls and the boys in this country don't have to go on marching -- that you don't say anything at all -- that they don't catch any low-cost planes without passing back to London, to Berlin or to Ecuador. We want, we need, young people to find opportunities in this country to make their lives, to contribute to general well-being and, ultimately, to make all of us have a better country. In that, Madam, let's focus, and that's too late. Allow me — as the whole daughter of the Government of the State — to quote a point from the agreement of the coalition programme between the Socialist Party and the United Nations We can, paragraph 1, point 12 of the agreement. "We will launch return programs for immigrants to get back who came out of our country looking for a job and which are so necessary for our economy. We will make special emphasis on the youth that has had to emigrate in recent years and on researchers and researchers who have to abound in our scientific system." We know these don't worry about them, but we anticipate that all this youth will come back. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u131	Thank you very much, Mrs Chao. Mrs Arias Rodríguez has the floor on the author group of the non-law proposal and to speak on the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u132	Thank you, President. Mr. Bará, if you want us to play the game, but this is much easier for you. This is about whether we want to support the return of the Greeks from the outside or not. What happens is that all of you were also in the committees of the Demographic Observatory and saw how the experts said, in the area corresponding to immigration, that precisely these bureaucratic obstacles were one of the problems they had to return. Finally, Mrs Vilán, indeed, if people have to leave Venezuela and have to leave those countries of which you spoke to us, it will be the responsibility of the Venezuelan governments, it will not be the Government of the Union. It will be thanks to the measures put in place by the Government of the Union, so these migrants decide to return to Galicia and not go to Madrid, not go to Barcelona or go to other places. That's exactly why Galicia has the highest rate of return of its emigrants. That's why it's better. Look, you say there's no help here. And you were talking about a baker's case. But, look, no, apart from the return 2020, which has already brought 20,000 Greeks here again — by the way, Mrs Chao, 80% under 65 and half under 45 — there are at least 200 people who started a return business with the help of the Board. But there are 800 people who are studying or are going to study master's studies next year or a cycle of FP and extraordinary help that have benefited 1,600 people. Finally, you help that's getting Joining on. Of course, I'm not surprised that you're worried about this, because other communities, for example, socialists, such as Extremeura, who also have return programs, devote -- well, look -- 360,000 euros to 3 years in the same chapters where we dedicate 3 million euros in a year; 360,000, 3 years; 3 million euros, 1 year. But that's not the worst, the most striking - and I'm not surprised that you don't speak for anything to ask the Government of the State and also those who signed that agreement so that measures are put in place, which is good enough - because, look, this doesn't say Raquel Arias, this is not said by the People's Party: "The pilot plan for the return of the Spanish government has managed to bring back 19 Spaniards emigrated by the crisis in one year." Nineteen Spaniards in a year! That's the success of Sánchez' return. In Galicia, 20,000 returnees in three years; that's just the numbers. And, Mr. Casal, you have spoken here about the migrants and their return. But, indeed, in that letter to the Magi you wrote so that you could give it to the Government of Sánchez they did not deal with any of the working conditions so that the new ones could come back to Galicia again. And regarding the amendments of the PSOE, indeed, Mrs Vilán, it surprises you again and again to stumble on the same stone. Always, always, before the party that the Greeks do.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u133	Thank you, Mrs Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u134	They delete any reference to require you to delete those proceedings and to favor you in return. Honestly, such a disappointment! You also ask for scholarships to study masters, when this year...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u135	Thank you, Mrs Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u136	...—if you read the budget—there were 1.4 million euros for scholarships of returnees students coming to study here a master's degree. In short, what you do is like that bad player who gets the ball, doesn't know what to do with it and throws balloons out. That's how you treat him.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u137	You have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u138	With regard to the Joint Group, I would like to stand — thank you, President — and say that, well, the things you are asking for are already under way or some of them would be the result of a different initiative that is being dealt with right now. But at least you had the detail of including in that substitution amendment a point that was our own proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u139	Thank you, Mrs Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u140	As I said, the rest are already being done in most of them and, therefore, we are not going to accept those amendments. We trust that, as is the case...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u141	Finish!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u142	...a part of them that we put on, because they accept this proposal from the People's Party, and we ask the others too. Please think about Galicia, leave your parties aside today.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u143	Thank you very much, Mrs Arias. We're still on the agenda. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the shipyard Barreras and the naval sector of the Vigo River
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u144	This motion for a non-law was presented with an amendment by the Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u145	Mr Bará Torres has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u146	Mrs. Arias, don't cheat on the lonely. How can you come here to say that as a result of the Strategy...? It's just that we're not fools, we also have the figures and the data. Or did no one come to the country before, no emigration came, no people returned, and he began to come now as a result of the return strategy Galicia that you put in motion? But what are you talking about? Bring us the data of how many people have come by welcoming these measures! It's not serious, because they're already coming before. The problem is not that, the problem is all the people who leave, or the people who can't come back because they have skilled, specialized jobs and here they don't have any opportunities. And the young people who walk away are a drama for a country, in terms of demographics as well, they know perfectly well. That's the problem. And it is also a problem the situation that is suffering from the naval of Vigo River and, in particular, two historic shipyards, such as Barreras and Vulcan — I look at Mrs. Egerique, who I see is taking points. Barreras is in a serious crisis, and in this serious crisis you have to save a set ball, which is the one that is now at stake; but above all you have to save the game ball, and the party ball is not the stockbroker and the February 2 date, which is a Damocles sword, but it's only part of the problem. This is also the case of Vulcan, who is on the brink of disappearance, with the grave responsibility of administrations governed by the People's Party, as we shall see. And so is that of the auxiliary companies, because right now, as the naval sector is set up, most of the employment — as we know — is in the auxiliary companies, which are now in the stalls because they have no work. Thousands of jobs are at stake, and this could be a real stroke of grace for a sector that has already been in a fight and that has been very steamed up in recent years, with the loss of thousands of skilled staff jobs that had to leave for emigration. That's the country's dramatic emigration: all the skilled personnel in our ship sector who don't have work here are being replaced by precarious work, and they're working, you know, where? In Euskadi, Asturias, Holland, Norway. Because our naval professionals take us all over the world and because they have better working conditions and better wages there. That's why they're working in Euskadi, and that's why they don't come back here; that's a very serious problem for this country. Also the extortion to which the auxiliary industry has been subjected over the last few years. And this has already left many victims on the road, many corpses even — and I don't speak in a figurative sense —. We spoke with many families who were victims of this situation, and there were deaths of people caused by the suffering of blackmail and extortion, by the fact that they were left behind, by the mortgages that these people had to suffer, and by the debts that they still have of industry. It's no joke, it's a real social drama. And the question is, why do we get to this situation and what are the causes? Of course, there is a maximum and direct responsibility for managers, entrepreneurs, who have followed this erratic and adventurous management—and some are very well known to you, of the People's Party, I suppose that of you too, Mrs. Egerique, who share the party. And there's also a maximum responsibility for the Galician Union, which has competence in industrial policy and naval policy. We have a law here in the naval sector of the year 2010 which clearly marks the path, priorities and responsibilities of the Galician Union and also of the state. Your responsibility in Vulcan is to deceive the staff, because you said, "Fill the ferry, we'll find an investor later." And they're waiting. They're waiting at home on unemployment, suffering from a dramatic situation. And in Barreras too, because you were the main cause of carrying the ship to the stones, since you, Mr. Fexóo, were the chief sponsor of Operation Pemex. You were the testafers and avalistas of Pemex, from the fiasco of Pemex, who was used bubblingly in electoral campaign with live transmission of the Televisión galega. The miracle of the peas and the fish! With Pemex's strategic operation, it turns out there were 24 boats, 6 fleets, 14 trailers... what about all this? Those are the lies, the traps, the deceptions and the fiasco of the People's Party, who's been counting all those tricks. What was going to be a salvation table was the stone to the neck for the sinking of the naval sector, or the risk in which it is six years later the naval of the Vigo River. Because Pemex, who wasn't Pemex—it was another trap too—it was SMEs, a ghost company based in a tax haven, it turns out that he now has the leading leaders persecuted by Mexican justice; his friends, the dangerous friends of Mr. Fexóo and Mr. Conde, who took so many pictures. Now they're not going to take pictures of Vulcan and Barreras, they're not interested now, but they're taking pictures. All these who are here in the pictures with Mr. Fexóo and Mr. Conde are being pursued and sought, in search of and capture internationally, by Mexican justice. [[Mr. Bará Torres shows a photograph.]] And you were going to hook up with them and with the corrupt Mexican government, who were feeding all these practices. That's where you took us. That's the responsibility of the People's Party's Union Government. Now we're in another danger, which is Operation Ritz Carlton -- you've also come to Miami to bring them here -- and we see how these voitre funds work, who want to save their problem, then run, seek public support and help and use all forms of blackmail. And then, as they usually do these voitre funds, they also make discharges to small companies that have debts — which are a lot of pemes — to save costs to clean up the company and then run or sell it with large surpluses. Anyway! The reality is that Barreras is on the edge of the abyss. You have that February 2nd deadline to save the entrance to the competition, but we need to be careful with the fake exits, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. It's not here to fix the shareholders' problems, they're looking for theirs: to finish their boat, to get funding, to get discharges... It's not about that, and less about doing it under pressure or blackmail. It has a global solution for the future for the entire naval sector of the Vigo River. We have to look for these measures, and here we bring proposals for Barreras, for Vulcano, for the auxiliary industry and for the whole Vigo River Navy naval. It's very important not to give Vulcan for loss, because you want to give Vulcan for loss. We have to explore every route, and the first is to guarantee you the land in which you are, which is land of public maritime-terrestrial domination. You're maneuvering, you're putting sticks on the wheels when there's a company trying to rewind the yard. The People's Party is putting poles on its wheels through the Harbour Authority of Vigo, who claimed these lands for the expansion of port land for the containers. And you know who's in front of the Harbour Authority of Vigo? Mr. López Veiga, prominent militant of the People's Party. And do you know who is on the Board of Directors of the Harbour Authority of Vigo, who voted in favour of this measure to boycott the exit of Vulcano? Mr. Rueda Valenzuela, Vice-President of the Galician Council and the Government delegate in Vigo, Mrs. Corina Porro. [[Applause]] And you know who else is? Mr. García Costa, one of the leading militants of the People's Party. Yes, Mr. Abel Caballero too, and the mayor of Roundola, who are voting against these measures, like other union representatives. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But you, who have the majority on the Board of Directors and have the presidency of the Board of Directors, are boycotting Mr. Rueda, Mrs. Porro Mr. García Costa. They voted to expel Vulcan from these lands, to recover those lands to the port. That's your responsibility. So in this situation we have to play the ball of game. And the ball of party passes through public intervention, through the intervention of the Government of Galicia, from the Union of Galicia, exploring all the ways. Also, if necessary, for public intervention by the State. There are also possibilities, measures, resources and instruments and, precisely for that reason, BNG has led this issue to the investment agreement. There are also measures to support the naval and, in particular, measures for the situation of Vulcano and Barreras, as well as for Navantia. We therefore propose five concrete measures. First, the urgent call of the Naval Bureau, with all the sectors concerned, is essential to analyse all the situation and possible solutions - but if that is covered by the naval industry law! -
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u147	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u148	Second, guarantee the payment of the debt to the auxiliaries. Thirdly, to negotiate with the Port of Vigo the continuity of Vulcan in the lands currently occupied - they have to allow it because it is fundamental, and not boycott it, as they are doing - Fourth, order a feasibility study. Look, we've already proposed a direct study of public intervention...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u149	Thank you very much, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u150	...—ending, Mr President—and leading, in collaboration with the sector, an equally fundamental measure, which is to create a ship repair centre project in the Vigo River...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u151	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. Your time is up. You have another shift later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u152	...because that will be the guarantee of stable and future work load for the ship of the Vigo River. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u153	The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor to Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u154	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are again debating an industrial issue that Socialists are very concerned about, as we have seen by demonstrating with the various initiatives brought to debate this Parliament on numerous occasions since President Feijóo's Pemex story was announced in pre-election time, in direct disconnection, on public television in Galicia. Yesterday we even debated a motion derived from the Socialists' inquiry to the Economic, Employment and Industry Councilman; a motion to which the People's Party, once again and applying its knee, voted against, so that the Galician Parliament could place duties on the Galician Union. The People's Party voted against the immediate formation of the Galician Naval Bureau, in which all the agents related to the sector (the Galician Union, the trade unions, employers and auxiliary companies) would be present in order to agree on possible solutions to the situation of the shipbuilding sector in Galicia. The People's Party also voted against the fact that the Galician Union had developed a feasibility study for the Greek naval that contemplated the long-term maintenance of the sector, the maintenance of jobs and the payment of the assistants. They also voted against the fact that the Galician Union, with these conclusions of the feasibility study, had made a strategic plan for the galego naval. They also voted against setting up, through Igape, a set of aids to ensure the development of that viability plan, conditional on the maintenance of activity and jobs. They also voted against the fact that the Galician Union had mediated towards the achievement of a private financing plan which, together with public aid, had allowed to develop the plan of viability and continuity of the long-term Greek shipyards. Finally, they also voted against negotiating with the Port Authority of Vigo the continuity of Vulcan in public domain lands. We assume that today's vote on this LNP presented by the BNG will also be against, because one thing the People's Party says and another very different thing is what it does. They say they defend the continuity of the Sons of J. Barreras, but the reality is that they hinder any agreement, that they do not allow them to reach agreements and that they take sides with certain particular interests. Today, they have not stated what is the link between Galician Union and Mr. García Costas. I would like to remind you once again that the Autonomy Statute, in its Article 30, provides that the Autonomous Community has exclusive competence in promoting and planning the economic activity of Galicia and in industry. So they're doing their job. [[Applause]] Tell the Galician Union, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, to govern and manage, to seek agreements, to help our country's development. Stop looking for guilty. They're looking for solutions, which are why they were chosen by the Greeks and the Greeks in this country. I told you yesterday that these eleven years of People's Party government in Galicia, we can call them the government of the fairy tales of Feijóo. The situation of Sons of J. Barreras and Pemex is one of those stories with an unannounced ending. That historic opportunity and that strategic alliance, that story that excited us in electoral precampa, with an important amount of workload, never materialized. The reality was only that of the two fleets. The German Government cannot get behind its back and must actively intervene in the search for solutions. Today there's a new one in the papers that tells us Barreras gets funding that will allow him to finish the cruise The Ritz Carlton and that the yard asks the auxiliaries for a three-month term to pay off the debt and so they don't start any claim. We expect this new one to materialize immediately and not end. This can't be the end. The Greek Government has to continue its talks and it has to set up this Galego Naval Bureau that we ask the socialists, to whom you voted against, in order to be able to carry out a feasibility study and a strategic plan that allows the continuation of the Welsh naval sector...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u155	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u156	...an important and strategic sector for our community. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u157	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Mr Casal Vidal has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u158	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm going to try to be as short as possible because on this subject the Tide Group has already positioned itself yesterday in this plenary. In addition, we agreed to a hundred percent with the non-law proposal of the BNG, because it includes even the issue of the amendment we made yesterday to the motion of the Socialist Party of Galicia. We are again in this matter of the shipbuilding industry, as in so many others, with regard to the German Government and the People's Group. The reality is they end up believing their own press campaigns. The reality is that it's bad that they're trying to fool all the Galicians and the Greeks, but what's really Kafkiano is that you end up fooling yourself. This in psychology is treated, it's a matter of concern: when you lie a lot, you end up believing your own lies and confusing them with reality. I'm not going to talk about the position with regard to the naval industry of the Merea Group because we did it yesterday. Which is, if we try to make this a little useful and see if the People's Group, the group that supports the Government, answers concrete things. Yesterday I tried our motion about The Bridges and there was no way they answered anything. But we're going to be optimistic and hope that in a matter as specific as this one can give some answer, which would give some light to the strategies, to the alternatives of the Greek Government, to what the Greek Government is planning to do, to try to get out of this whole problem. So the first question would be: why is the Government of the Union once again with that mandate of number one of the industrial policy of the People's Party and the Union of Galicia? Why is he this time, and again, as a spectator in the serious Barreras crisis? Do you have anything to do with this that The Ritz Carlton doesn't trust you? Why doesn't The Ritz Carlton transfer information to the Italian Government?, why don't you meet with the German Government? Does it have anything to do with what you think are more of your militant and friend García Costas than the interests of Barreras and the Welsh naval sector? [[Murmurs.]] Another question: will Galician Union improve its capacity for analysis and management in the naval sector in order to make a better casting of partners for the Galician naval sector? Because the reality is that the rift they wear is really very successful. Does the Government guarantee that all aid to this sector must be conditional on the payment of assistants, which is at the heart of this sector? Will they give financial support to auxiliary companies that are victims of successive repeated discharges? Will the Galician Council develop the Naval Sector Promotion Act? At least in all this legislation, they did not present any documents that developed, above all budget, this law. And, finally, will Galician Union transfer to the Port Authority of Vigo, named by the PP, that it must stop its interest at once — hopefully not speculative — on Vulcan lands and discard the change of use? They are very simple questions, very concrete, theoretically easy to answer, and I hope the spokesperson for the People's Party can give us some light on this matter to at least know where the People's Party goes in the naval sector. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. Casal. For the Joint Parliamentary Group on the Left, Mrs Chao Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u160	Thank you, President. First of all, I mean we're going to support this non-law proposition, and we wish you much luck. But in view of what happened yesterday with the Socialist Group's motion on the naval sector, we're not very optimistic, although there's progress, by the way. It turns out that after months saying that we were making up a proposal, that it wasn't coming out of any place and that it didn't convince anyone, yesterday Mrs. Egerique had to admit that yes, that the call from the Naval Bureau was a demand of the sector. And they do so, without blushing. A few months they say one thing, one day they change from criterion to forward. Corrigendum is a good thing, Mrs. Egerique. What's not so much is that you allow months and months to pass without doing anything at all, that allow months and months to go through not by while hundreds of jobs -- that's the worrying thing -- are in danger, while hundreds of families look every day at newspapers with concern about the lack of information from their government. That's worrying. Because all the people's party knows how to do with the naval sector is to take it off on an election campaign. To put solutions on the table are neither expected nor expected. That's why they come to this House again and again and ask them to act with Vulcan at once. Look, the lack of government action, the repeated absence of the Industry Counsellor, has already led 69 workers to a liquidation process. They've been starting to charge for the Salary Guarantee Fund for two weeks. Maybe this should worry them. Imagine your situation. Well, don't pull the towel, and they're still waiting for you to do something, move your finger for your future to give viability to Vicalsa's proposal, which would allow you to maintain this productive unit. That's why it's important that they get to work, that they feel with the Harbour Authority of Vigo and clearly tell their friend Enrique López Veiga that they're going to do their best to keep the land they occupy today Vulcan is still industrial land that guarantees the maintenance of productive capacity and, above all, of jobs. What we're wondering is what they're waiting for, what they're also waiting for to recognize the enormous failure they've had with Pemex and Barreras and what they're waiting for to shoulder the responsibilities of so many corrupt hands of Feijóo's friends, Pemex's office at the point of view of Mexican justice, and his invaluable friend García Costas. We continue to hope that at some point in this House they will explain what is Feijó's relationship with this gentleman, because his friendship always ends in the same place: propaganda, failure and dismissal. Yesterday we had to hear again how Mrs. Egerique came here, on behalf of the People's Party, boasting again the good time the naval sector lives — a joke! — saying that Vulcan and Barriers are exceptions and that the rest "all right". That's just fake. First, because we're talking about two straight yards in this country. But second, and above all, because the fall of the first and the shadows about the future of the second put the jobs of hundreds of people in the auxiliary industry of Vigo, of which you said absolutely nothing. Only in December were there a thousand people in the auxiliary industry in their city who had lost their jobs because of the wages of the shipyards. Are you going to tell them that this is something smaller, that I'm an exception? Were you going to tell the 22,500 people who lost their jobs in the industry since they ruled that they were exceptions? The time of propaganda fades and is the time of solutions. If you don't know, if you don't want to, let go of it. We have a lot of clear proposals on the table that we have brought all the opposition groups on numerous occasions, from the call of the Naval Bureau or the aid linked to the maintenance of the jobs, to which they have been denied, to the creation of a ship repair centre, to which they have also been denied, or to the guarantee of the industrial continuity of Vulcan lands, to which they have also been denied. These are concrete proposals. What we don't know yet is what the Government's proposal is. What are you going to do to solve this situation? We said it six months ago: silence is conviving with the dismantling of industrial tissue, and we can't afford it. The Industry Council has no right to continue dismantling this country's industry. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u161	Thank you very much, Mrs Chao. For the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Mrs Egerique Mosquera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u162	Thank you, President. Good morning. At the end of the day, Mrs Chao, it's true that you don't have to decide when to convene or not convene the Naval Bureau, it's the sector itself. And the sector is going through administration to ask whether it really is necessary or not to convene the Naval Bureau. We have two debates on this subject. In fact, in twenty-four hours I've been three -- and I'll do it whenever possible -- and we'll vote the same everywhere. Of course, we have the same position that we had during the twelve years, or ten years, that takes this Board of Galicia, which doesn't happen to your colleagues, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, because I don't know if you know they just voted something different in Vigo. I think as simple are Vulcan and Barriers as The Bridges or Alcoa. You're also going to have to give them explanations and not let that industry stutter, which people from your group have already recognized here, in this gallery, that they're going to close them directly from the central government. Mr Bará, that story you referred to, that drama, I share it completely, because it's true. It is true that there was a moment in 2011, in 2012 and 2013, when the doors were closed, in the morning no one entered any of the yards I also named yesterday, not only in Barreras. This Council of Galicia and the Government of Mariano Rajoy have done their best to find an investor and to have work on those yards. And there was work, the families of the people who were there got to work and there was a pace of work. If it's true that later, in Vulcan -- and I say there's nothing to hide, when in 2012 the ferry was supported to follow the 2017 project -- since minute one, and now even an investor was sought to get that out of the way. You want to go against Enrique López Veiga by sea, land and air. I think it's great, but don't lie, because this file, which has been sent to Ports of State and which is the issue of termination of concession, voted by all the people you said — indeed — we know it's pending a reply. [[Mr. Egerique Mosquera teaches a document.]] Because they're not able to fool anymore, because even they said this didn't exist, so you have to invent it. And when they're inventing, we're getting bigger words. The best way and the best way to work in favour of the naval is not by lying or telling me that the whole thing is Feijóo's fault. You think messing with Feijóo and screwing with the Galician Union defend the naval. They're confused there, directly. Mr Bará, you have a similar argument for all subjects. You can take the photos you want and say everything you want from other countries, other justices, other people, but here we have a president of the board and an industry advisor who gives the face, who come here to explain when you question...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u163	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u164	...who are responsible for Barreras working for six years and Vulcan not closing in 2012. Look, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, I'll tell you something. In the Vigo Plenary, the service letter from the Socialist Party is only to name a non-gracious person to Joaquín Almunia; just like they rescue him now for some cabinet. Because, yes, ministries don't have a lot of skills, but cabinets are full. They can call Joaquín Almunia to advise them on the naval sector, which is what brought the tax lease into Galician private shipyards.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u165	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u166	Mr. Joaquín Almunia. [[Applause]] It turns out we now have an empty Minister of Competition almost; with a cabinet full but with absolutely empty competitions. So we'll also have to know what that labor minister says he's been doing here with Feijóo and the Joint Government, defending the workers he's now going to put on the street, if he doesn't make an imminent decision, with electro-intensive companies -- as I said -- in the Bridges, in Alcoa and in this case also in the naval. Because here's Pimar, who also has a lot to say, and you forget that, too. The only ones who are out walking the naval in an election year are you, who bring two similar initiatives — as I say — in the same plenary session, and the same for the next one they bring another. I think it's very nice that they also present this initiative in Congress and the Vigo Town Hall. We have the same line of work and service sheet — I insist. Mrs Chao says, you claim here that this sector is a strategic sector. It's just that there are many yards that are working with workloads, in addition to the future, and that have the jobs employed. In addition, it is investing in training so that there is generational change and it is innovating in certain yards. Of course, Barriers and Vulcans are two problems for which this joint gives its face and with which it will also be to give a solution, and you don't believe that they are the generators of the problem, because, as much as they say it here, Mr Bará, that's not true. So, Mr. Casal, tell you to see if we do anything useful, and I say that the useful thing is to work and continue supporting.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u167	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u168	As I say, I hope you bring me something useful from that labor minister of your group -- I don't know whether it's from your group or not, but yes from your line -- because you both defended here and said that we're all going to Madrid, and the only one in Madrid is her, who was replaced by Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u169	Thank you very much. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u170	So here is seriousness, defence of Galicia and the Welsh naval sector. We will vote against it, as we voted yesterday, because we always do things in a coherent way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u171	Thank you very much, Mrs. Egerique. Mr Bará Torres has the floor for the author group of the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u172	Mrs. Egerique, you have an awkward past. I understand that it bothers them to take pictures of their dangerous friends, of their corrupt friends, but they're there. It's part of your trajectory, and we can't delete it, which we're going to do! They're their accomplices, they're their agreements, they're their friends, they're now looking for and catching up for the Government, for Mexican justice and for corruption, and they're the ones you've agreed to and made those photographs. So what do you want me to tell them? Everyone who deals with their past and their responsibilities, who have a lot on this subject, I've told you here. We only do here to bring proposals which are collected in this law which was approved in 2010 — who was ruling in 2010? — the Galician Naval Sector Promotion Act, which says that the Galician Union should take on the competences that allow it to exercise the defence and momentum of the naval sector. [[Mr. Bará Torres shows a document.]] They have to take over their skills and they don't. [[Applause]] And it clearly marks what the responsibilities are: training... it turns out now that there were no staff trained, when that's a responsibility that's set here for Galician Union. You also help build, transform and repair ships. The Naval Repair Centre has often been sued in this Parliamentary rostrum by the BNG. By the way, your project had already been made by that famous bipartisan government and you were thrown into the trash, when it was a fundamental project for the development of the Vigo River naval. What we already think of is how they can come here -- you say to your face, but what they have is very expensive, very dying, very dying; it's no longer dying! -- dare say it's the sector that has to call the Naval Bureau. How dare you? I'm going to read to you article 5 of the Law of the Naval Sector: "The Council of Galicia will submit all its actions to the Naval Sector Table, emanating from social dialogue." It's Galician Union that has to convene the Naval Bureau, and more when there's a dramatic situation, as it is now in Vulcan and Barreras. [[Applause]] And with regard to Vulcan - if not clear - it is mainly in the hands of the Harbour Authority and also of the State, which has to approve this issue, but who has approved the request that these lands cease to be used for the yard or for a future project - because Asime says there is a Vicalsa project that needs to be studied and that can be future guarantee for Vulcan - who is vetoing, who is laying poles on the wheels is the Vigo Harbour Board of Directors with the votes of the People's Party, Mr López Veiga, Mr Rueda and Mrs. Corina Porro. It's your responsibility.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u173	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u174	And we also hope that, when it comes to the offices of Madrid, which, according to our information, I have here an answer from the secretary-general...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u175	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u176	...he hasn't arrived yet, when he gets there...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u177	Thank you very much, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u178	...the government of the PSOE gives a folder to that possibility that it will maintain the use of these lands for the construction of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u179	Your time is up, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u180	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u181	As far as the Socialist Party's amendment was concerned, I didn't understand what he said.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u182	The amendment is accepted as an addition amendment, but not a replacement amendment, because it also accepts what is provided for in the law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u183	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next initiative. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Ms Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo and Mr José Manuel Pérez Seco, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the low level of budgetary execution presented by the Galego Institute of Economic Promotion in the years 2016, 2017 and 2018, as well as the achievement of its objectives
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u184	To this non-law proposal, an amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Our Bergangino Presses.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u185	To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u186	Thank you, Mr. President. The Galego Institute of Economic Promotion, the Igape, is the agency assigned to the Council of Economics, Employment and Industry for the economic development of Galicia. And according to Igape's own website, it says that its mission is to support all the activities that contribute to improving the Greek production system by facilitating the processes of creation, consolidation and business growth. And plasma five objectives: to encourage the creation of new companies and to promote decisively the entrepreneurial spirit, to increase the competitiveness of Greek companies through innovation and technological development, to attract investment to Galicia, to facilitate internationalisation and to support cooperation and collective projects of Greek companies. In order to achieve these objectives, Igape also states that a number of aid for the financing of business investment is available to the Greek companies by means of deep-disbursed aid, we offer EIB to finance circulation and investment, and regional economic incentives. So Igape's mission and objectives are clear. It must be an instrument for the economic activation of our country. However, data from the Welsh industry does not reflect that Igape is correctly fulfilling its mission, nor giving a proper response to the business needs of our country that favors our economic growth. Look, ladies and gentlemen, I'll give you data, as always. We socialists have always seen data evaluated here for our argumentary. A few days ago, the EPA data for the fourth quarter of the year 2019 told us that the industrial level of Galicia has not yet recovered the occupied population that existed in Galicia before the arrival of Mr. Núñez Feijóo to the presidency. That is, the number of employees in the fourth quarter of 2019 says that we have 26,800 people employed less in the industry than there was in the year 2008 in the same quarter. As for the weight of the Welsh industry in the state as a whole, it has also decreased. The PP collected in its 2016 electoral programme that would raise up to 20% the weight of the industry in the Italian GDP by 2020, and that would also facilitate the creation of 50,000 new jobs in the industry. These objectives have also been shaped and approved by the Galician Union in the plan for the dynamisation of the Galician Union. Well, from the goal of having 50,000 new people occupied in the current legislation in the industry, what we have — according to the data — is that by the end of 2019 fewer than 18,000 people were created in respect of those 50,000 people who were targeted by the People's Party. So we haven't reached 40% of the target announced by the People's Party. With regard to the objective of increasing the weight of the industrial sector in the whole of the German GDP, since data are not flattering either, and this has declined over the years in this legislation. In 2016 it was 16.65%; in 2018 it was 16.29%; and the known data we have of 2019, of the first three quarters, were at 15.5%. So, we figured that at the end of the year, it won't even reach 16%. So, as we see, there's an obvious retreat year after year. If we look at the march of our industrial sector and we go to the industrial production index -- the IPI -- the November 2019 data, also published by the INE these days, we're told that the average for Galicia is negative at about 4.5 points, while the level of the whole of Spain is positive at 0.5. If you see the set of the last four years, 2016-2019 — you expect to know the data of December 2019 — the industrial sector in Galicia has had a worse behavior than Spain, of the order of 16% below the result of all Spain. If we go to other goals that Igape has, such as facilitating internationalization, the website tells us that internationalization is an undeniable way to improve the competitiveness of the Greek companies and regain economic growth. And then he also tells us that Igape supports the internationalization initiatives of the Greek companies with a wide range of services and financial assistance. On January 24th, a few days ago, they tried to hang a new one -- obviously, that's right, not all the data is up to date, but the news is, especially when they're advertising and propaganda. And in this new, January 24th -- I say, a few days ago -- he says, "The director of the Igape, Juan Cividanes, highlighted the evolution of the Welsh exports in the first eleven months of last year, and highlighted the momentum that the Galician Union is carrying out from the digital presence of the Greek pemes in the foreign markets." But if we go to the data on exports from Greece, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, and the latest reports published, this statement is not ratified and, of course, this enthusiasm shown by Mr Cividanes, the director — as Igape said before — is not ratified. Thus, the Galician Economic Forum, which published Galicia's third export barometer, from January to September, in respect of the same period of the previous year, tells us that the volume exported to Galicia has fallen to 6.1%, while in Spain it is positive at 1.6%. The number of companies in Galicia has fallen by 1.5 % while in Spain it has increased by 1.4%. And the Galician Economic Forum says, "In the first three quarters of 2019, the fall in export trade in the Pacific area is confirmed, while in the whole of the European Union, exports still grew by 2.4%. In this context, we see how Spanish exports are adjusted slightly growing under European behaviour, while in Galicia we note a very worrisome fall of 6.1%, broadening the gap that we drag on in export evolution over the last ten years -- they are the ten years ruled by the People's Party and Mr. Feijóo -- that translate into a fall of our weight into Spanish exports. Today it's 7.4% while ten years ago it's 8.6%." If we go to the number of exporters, the behavior remains worrisome in all its vectors, with falls that contrast with the growth or stability of the whole of the exporters in Spain, "so that we continue to sink"—follow us by saying the Galician Economic Forum— "in the rift of our defective weight in the Spanish ensemble." Today we have 3.5% and ten years ago, when Mr. Núñez Feijóo came to the presidency of the Galician Union, he was 4.6%. And the Economic Forum says that if, last year by these dates, Baexga recorded three positive indicators on the eight handled, this year only one indicator can be considered positive. We also use more data and we go to more sources, so that they don't accuse us, as if you've done on one occasion, that we're wrong about the data. The monthly report on foreign trade, Comex, published by the Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Tourism, also tells us that we have accumulated from January to November 2019 also in relation to the same period of the previous year, and tells us that for Galicia exports have dropped by 4.4%, while for Spain they are positive at 1.4%. The commercial balance for Galicia is 44.2 % negative, while for the Spanish ensemble it is 2.3 % positive. So once again we refer to an economic policy that fails to capture private investment, as we export skilled work and the capital of Greek. We have other data. In another objective that Igape had, which was the foreign investment uptake for Galicia, because the data are no better either. If we go to foreign investment statistics in Spain of the Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Tourism —Datanvex — tell us that between 2018 and 2009 we raise 117 million euros less than we caught in 2009. And if the comparison is made from 2009 to 2019, it also tells us that we have raised 70 million euros less than we had in 2009.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u187	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u188	I'm done, Mr. President. We now represent 1.42 % of the total state in 2009 to 0.13 % in 2018, or 0.76 % from January to September 2019. On this first shift, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u189	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u190	Thank you, President. Well, we're talking about the Igape, and we're talking about the chronic failure of twenty-five years—which last year's birthday—of lost time, practically; especially in the last few years of the Feijóo decade. It was another missed opportunity to have a useful tool for the economic and industrial development of our country. And here are the results. We could talk about objective results, such as the industrial production index, if we see it annually — as the Socialist Party spokesperson said. We can talk about our country's exports, which even when they go well we know that it is due exclusively to two sectors — more so, to two companies — and that this is not sustainable, that we have to bet on another way. And that's not what Igape is doing. We can also talk about the budget execution data, which are described in the Socialist Party's initiative, or we could talk about recent failures of its role as a mediator, since Igape is not currently worth this country or even as a mediator. We have sad examples that prove it, like the result of Poligal. We can also talk about the result of Isowat, an innovative company based in the Coruña that gave work to almost a hundred people, who had everything to go forward, absolutely everything, that made exclusive parts for Navantia and Repsol, which even put a problem on its productive stop to many companies in our country, and which mysteriously, while the branch that was in Medina, which was practically a hardware, because it had no innovative role, was able to go forward thanks to the involvement of a government that made government, it wasn't with Isowat in the case of Junta de Galicia. And even more so because we talked about a company that had problems precisely with the entity that had financed it in its day. Because, indeed, the collapse of the Greek financial sector has led us to that situation. The Galician Union not only collaborated actively with him, but, when he has to exercise the German Government and try to find some alternative, even if it is not funding itself but acting as a negotiator with Abanca — who has so many favors — he is not even able to collect the favors that we have just paid for the Greeks and Greeks as part of these more than 9,000 million euros of bailout. Another way we can see the absolute failure of the Igape is in its operating problems. This is not the BNG, but it is also said by the Board of Auditors, in the last report we discussed in 2017 on the Igape — a report from 2011 to 2013 indicating many shortcomings. And the worst thing is, so we know about the latest initiatives we've been making on this, because it hasn't moved too much corrections to this body either. But we can also see their failure in their corruption, because we must remember that the Igape was a source of corruption. And that should have been enough for the Igape to self-dissolve and build another instrument that would be less embarrassing, because it must be remembered that the ex-Director was convicted of corruption in the "Campion" case. I repeat, convicted of corruption. The sentence said there was a plot. Before the plot that made Rajoy go home we already knew there were plots of corruption in the People's Party, and also in Galicia through the Igape, which is where even a gentleman was involved who passed through this House. But not only did the Galician Union decide not to turn the Igape into anything after these events, but, when it celebrated last year on the 25th anniversary, it also decided to award and acknowledge this master condemned for corruption. In fact, I want to make here a reminder-homage to another colleague of the Socialist Party, Mr. Abel Losada, with whom I had so much discussed about the Igape before Mrs. Rumbo took the relief, and to recognize that it was indeed who had taken from Mr. Cividanes the second favorite statement that left us in this legislation. The first was that of all those times that he denied that there was relocation, that there was no relocation to Portugal. But the second was when he gave us those statements in the Industry Committee of "We actually invited them to a Cuban," recalling and recognizing that on the 25th anniversary of the Igape these gentlemen, who talk so much about the mojitos, publicly recognized that they paid some Cubans with the money of the Greeks and Greeks to the ex-Director of the Igape condemned for corruption. Well, with these sludges, these results. In fact, as of today, the Greek Institute of Credit fails in all its objectives, they are simply rhetorical enunciation. That's what any target organism says, that's what all the economic forums say. In particular, we remain in this country with a problem in access to credit for the decisions in the financial framework that I had previously commented on. But you also deny your own roadmaps to which you are engaged, because Igape is one of the organisms that signed — or, at least, it is in its logo — this book that was published by the Economic and Social Council and what we were talking about yesterday: by a Welsh industrial alliance. So there are literally many of the issues that the Socialist Party raises on its own initiative, and there is also this problem that we have because we do not have a financial structure in the service of this country's interests by also helping economic and industrial development. We are therefore going to vote in favour of this initiative regardless of whether or not this amendment is accepted. We simply add two questions that seem important to us: that, when Igape exists, if we see whether it is introducing the recommendations of the Board of Auditors for better functioning, more transparent and appropriate, with the conditionings of European funds as well; and the second part is that we do not stop insisting on the idea, which we have also brought through a bill already in 2014, that we believe that Igape is dead, that it is an instrument that is invalid and that it has to be transformed into a Greek institute of credit, into a different structure that makes a different policy. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u191	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u192	Thank you, Mr. President. Good day again. We agree, of course, because this is a very serious problem, and we will vote in favour, of course. Because indeed this financial instrument for economic promotion — theoretical — and for international investment in Galicia leaves in three years 148 million euros unimplemented, taking into account the situation of industry, trade and the very low foreign investment in Galicia, which, as we have already stated on other occasions, most of it is purely financial to enter the capital of existing companies — and in many cases even as a result of the loss of control of these companies — and only in a very residual way to develop new industrial initiatives, which are developing mainly in northern Portugal. It's a very serious problem. And it can't be the excuse — repeated excuse for us in the Committee on Economics and Industry — that aid is multi-annual. But it's that year after year, year after year, they're still not executed. Multi-Annualities will be over someday. But no, the lack of execution is completely repetitive. It's really hard to figure out clearly what the problem is. I'm not going to say that this is an easy issue to solve, but you'll have to come in. The reality is that Igape is an institution of the 20th century. It's not adapted to the economic reality of the 21st century. What's the matter? Don't Greek companies ask for help? Well, the truth is, it seems a little weird. Is the call for aid or financial support a bureaucratic burden that causes the most dynamic companies to withdraw? Well, maybe. Are the conditions and typology of aid not adapted to the current reality of the most innovative companies? It's a lot of doubt, and to solve it, we think in Marea that the focus of the problem is really what I've already said: transforming this institute, which is essentially thought to be a financial institution, into a real instrument of economic promotion. That implies changing its entire structure and operation, evolving how it works — I mean, as a mere financial intermediary — towards a real office of economic promotion and development. They would have a pretty close and quite successful example in the similar body that the Basque Government has, that it does not stop giving them joys of industrial implementation, of the creation of new companies, of their own fabric and of evolution towards the new economy of their own industry and of their own trade. I mean, this would involve a structural change with staff experienced in innovation, business development, market prospecting, big date experts to detect opportunities and strengths, etc., that complement high-level staff — that we have to recognise — but a very marked financial profile, which is what Igape currently has. Because more and more the reality of a company goes far beyond the analysis of a balance sheet or a profit and loss account. Many companies in the future and also in the present are based on added values, on intangible values. If a company of the greatest international success, especially in the field of new technologies, in the field of communication, information, and in particular throughout the digital world, had submitted a request for help to Igape, they would probably not give it to her. We have to see that many of the most innovative companies, for example in Silicon Valley, spend six, seven or eight years with multimillionaire losses. There are companies that this year, for example, had 5 billion euros of losses and instead have a stock exchange of 100 billion euros. In a purely financial balance sheet analysis of results, this would be absurd. We have to go much further, we have to go towards expectations, opportunities, other kinds of work, economic promotion work, which, especially in Galicia, has to focus on the tractor sectors. Because it is clear that the countries that are going to have a future are the countries that have water, food and sustainable energy capacity. That is why we have everything in Galicia, and what needs to be focused on is those sectors; perhaps we have to leave some more aside with less expectations and focus on all these sectors, sustainable mobility, in all sectors in which Galicia is present. Well, there can't be EUR 148 million without running in three years, which would have to be available to all these kinds of companies that need it — many of them probably incipient and perhaps with not very solvent balances. Igape would have to be willing to implement these types of companies to develop quality employment and to improve the overall situation of Galician economy. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u193	Thank you, Mr. Casal. Before continuing the debate, we wanted to greet the students and students of 6th of the Primary Center Barrie de la Maza. In this case, I think it's the second group. We greet them, as well as the teachers and their companions. Welcome to Parliament. For the Parliamentary Group of the Left Joint Group, Mrs Torregrosa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u194	Good morning, and thank you very much, President. I welcome the students who are accompanying us today. Indeed, as has already been mentioned since the different voices of the opposition groups, on the one hand, I want to reiterate the basic importance, in the evolution of the economic growth project in Galicia, of the role — undisputed for us — of the Igape, which is the autonomous agency that is attached to the Council of Economics, Employment and Industry for the economic development of Galicia. It has a fundamental mission, which is to improve the Greek production system by facilitating the processes of creation, consolidation and growth. There has been a thorough exposure by the PSdeG voicer of the functions so important that they are considered in the annual budgets. Among these are themes such as being the main responsible for the implementation of business development policies that are concentrated on function 74 of the budgets of the Union, in a very prominent way in programme 741A, in support of modernization, internationalization and the improvement of competitiveness, innovation and business productivity, things that we logically suppose both of you, from the Government, as we think are fundamental. So, for this purpose, Igape counted over this legislate with more than 462 million euros of budgetary resources, between the 2017, 2018, 2019 and the approved initial appropriations of the 2020 budgets, taking over 85% of the total resources allocated by the Galician Union to business development in our community. We understand that they are proportional to their importance, since Igape is strategic in the country's economic growth. But if, on the one hand, we say that its strategy and importance is considered from the Government and that it is important in these budgets — it is responsible for 2020 for more than a quarter of the total capital expenditure of the Council of Economics, Employment and Industry, and it is the main responsibility for the implementation of the strategies of the Greek Government for the reactivation of the economy of our community and the improvement of the competitiveness of the Greek companies — the results it has achieved are truly absolute failure. We believe that there is obviously a lack of strategy for the Igape itself, which has such important programmes as the Galician Plan invests — with financial support for the investments of the Greek companies — or also the issue of managing under the financial instrument and the Feder Galicia 2014-2020 operational programme, to improve the competitiveness of pemes — which we think is very important — as well as the support to companies in the support provided by the Ministry of Finance through regional economic incentives lines, with all these aspects of industrial competitiveness of the Ministry of Industry, the management of loans from the European Investment Bank. We can say, therefore, that we are faced with what is the main executive arm of the German Government for the development of business development policies, or what should it be? So the problems were indicated. They are really not Igape's own defects, but the way to execute Igape. It is clear, as already stated, that there was a report from the Board of Auditors on the purely administrative management of goods, internal management, which made it impossible for a body of such importance to obtain the precise results for the evolution of the economy in Galicia. It must already be said — because my time is over — that, if we talk about the exercise, the Board has executed only 55 million of the 123 million assigned in the 2018 exercise of this Programme 741 — we speak of less than 45% of the total. If we are looking at the execution for 2019 — that we have the results up to three quarters of the 2019 budgets — only 20% of the total budget has been executed. I mean, we are really seeing — which is not surprising — that one thing is budgets and another is the real political will, which we can see in the budget execution, which is the real one. I mean, it's the importance that the Government of Galicia really gives to what is a fundamental issue and which logically justifies that we have...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u195	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u196	...this very negative data on industrial employment, the negative differential of industrial activity with regard to the state as a whole and the negative evolution of Welsh exports in the last two years. So we can no longer agree with this initiative and with all the criticisms expressed by the Socialist Group and the other groups regarding the performance of the Igape of its functions. And we think it's essential that this strategic element for our economy be used as it should be. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u197	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vázquez Domínguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u198	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. The Group of the Socialists of Galicia brings to this Parliamentary House a non-legislative proposal with four points to urge the Government of Galicia. I'd like to explain to you one by one so you can value the work being done by the German Government, because, so I just heard from the ladies who preceded me in the use of the word, they completely do not know it. Madam Presas, you say the Igape is the chronicle of an announced death. Then the twenty-five years — which were celebrated in 2018 — and the 14,000 million euros that supported 81,000 companies have no importance for the Nationalist Block of Galicia. Nothing, for you, for the Galician Nationalist Block, would be much better not to support; or, easier, to close, that's what they're used to. I'm sorry, but I don't share your position. Look, the Galician Board has launched the Galician Business Financing Plan by facilitating funding for 800 entrepreneurs, micro-enterprises and pemes projects thanks to an budget of EUR 100 million. And for that, there's a novelty that includes in the plan of what I just talked about, which highlights the loan programme for funding strategic projects, with 16.5 million euros. If we do a long-term analysis, the comprehensive support package launched in 2014 has facilitated access to funding to 10,876 companies and self-employed companies, which means an average daily of 6, and has thus stimulated the mobilization of 1,180 million euros in four and a half years. Of the total funding that has come up in this period, 9 out of every 10 euros of the support has enabled the development of autonomous projects. In the second point, with regard to internationalization, it is worth recalling that for this year the "Galicia export" programme has a total of 11.2 million euros; that is, 40% more than in the previous call. And the goal is nothing other than that pemes can access and grow in international markets, and also promote the diversification of sales destinations. And in this context, the Galician Union has activated a new program to boost digital internationalization. In addition, there is the Foexga Plan, which is developed in collaboration with the Italian Chambers of Commerce, which are responsible for organizing and coordinating external promotion actions. It's a job that's giving its fruit, because in Galicia, unlike Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo said, it's still going through a better export cycle. Despite the uncertainties that we are living at both the state and the international level, forecasts are maintained in our community, and it would once again overcome the 21 billion euro barrier in 2019. At the budget meeting for 2020, the advisor commented on the involvement of his advisor to the "Galicia Quality" brand with the aim of further boosting exports and increasing economic resources by more than 31.5% compared to 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, the way out of the United Kingdom of the European Union will soon come, and the German Government is already working. And for that, he reinforced measures to respond to the companies affected by Brexit. As for the collection of investments, see, in 2017, the Popular Parliamentary Group brought to this Parliamentary House the Act on the introduction of business measures, in which greater administrative simplification was promoted, more tax incentives to businesses and more facilities for access to business soil. And you know what the whole bench on the left voted for? They voted no. They voted against the new challenges of innovation and industrial digitisation in Galicia; that is, as they always do, they gave back to Galicia and to the Greeks, as they do every time they bring forward initiatives for the Greek companies. Look, the Act of corporate measures that hate so much has reached 131 entrepreneurship councils. This action is reflected in the collection of foreign investments, because between January and September 2019 Spain's investment has fallen to 2014 levels, while Galicia has recorded the best data since 2012. Look, since there was talk here and advice is appointed, I will also appoint the Galego Council of Economists, which says textually: "The Galician economists are more optimistic about the evolution of the Galician economy than that of Spain." And this is not the end of the wager of the Government of Greece for the industrial sector, because recently, as Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo said, the Council of Economics, Employment and Industry has launched a new programme to facilitate small and medium-sized enterprises. Look, ladies and gentlemen, the important thing in implementing initiatives is always to take account of the industrial sector, which is affected. In short, this initiative reflects that the opposition groups are the focus of the action of the German Government. They are limited to insisting that measures are already taken and that Galicia is in a better position than the Spanish set. Ladies and gentlemen, each of the points set out in your initiative are covered by programmes — as I have already mentioned, the Business Financing Plan, "Galicia Exports" or the Foexga Plan — are budgeted — such as the EUR 100 million funding plan or the "Galicia Quality" brand in which the budgetary resources have been increased — and are supported with positive results, as I have said, since Galicia continues to go through the best export cycle.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u199	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u200	I'm done, Mr. President. It does not contain this parliamentary group to harm entrepreneurial projects. It does not contain any damage to the export of Galician exports either. And it doesn't contain with us to harm Galician pemmes. That's what you're already whipping up our Galician industry day after day. [[Murmurs.]] Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u201	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Domínguez. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u202	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Mrs. Sandra... — I always forget your last name, I'm sorry — Mrs. Sandra Vázquez, the truth is, I don't know very well whether you're going to break all the things you said or if you're going to continue with my argument, because the truth is that you're putting a little bit of... [[Murmurs.]] Look, you're telling me this year, you've raised 40% in internationalization. Well, I'll spend it. When the execution is with that 40% we came here and you come to show muscle. [[Murmurs.]] For now, as much as they put on, you know perfectly that one thing is what is established in budgets and another is what is executed. [[Applause]] And you know what I often tell you? That the Galician Union is that fan they do. You look like you're gonna do nothing later. It's something that they have very internalized and that they usually do. Look, when you tell me it's the best export cycle and the forecasts are maintained, I must understand that the forecasts were bad. Because if you keep your forecasts and these are the reports... by the way, this is from the Galician Economic Forum, I guess you won't hesitate. Mr President, please, this is for me to bring you to Mrs Vázquez. [[Mr Rodríguez Rumbo gives a document to Mr President.]] Look, I'm going to give you more, this is the industrial production index, published by the IGE — also the official body. Mr. President, do me a favor from DataInvex. [[Mr Rodríguez Rumbo gives a document to Mr President.]] And finally, the Foreign Trade Report. [[Mr Rodríguez Rumbo gives a document to Mr President.]] Please, Mr. President. [[Mr Rodríguez Rumbo gives a document to Mr President.]] To see that our data always comes down and is official data. [[Applause]] It's not to say, because we can say 50,000 things. [[Applause]] And, look, I repeat to you what the Galician Economic Forum told us, that I'm sure some of your colleagues can support the solvency of this economic forum. It goes back to saying, "... expanding the gap that we drag on in export evolution in the last ten years." This says textually the report that I just left you to look at -- if you haven't looked at it already, that probably but it didn't seem to you to bring it out here. And, look, with these data I just exposed to you -- and because I don't have any more time -- in this X legislation, of the initial credits recorded in the budgets of the Galician Union for the years 2016-2018, in this X legislation, which reached 306 million euros, the actual execution of the Igape in these three years was 160 million. In other words, they left unexecuted 146 million euros, 48% of the total appropriations allocated. That's why I'm telling you one thing they say and another very different thing they do. I have nothing else to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u203	Do you accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u204	Yes, I'm sorry. I accept the amendment. There's a correction in one word. It was simply missing in the drafting of point 5 submitted by the BNG, which is to request from the Igape a report detailing which recommendations were adopted by the Council. I'm saying it because, if not, it doesn't make sense. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u205	Thank you. We continue with the next non-law proposition. Non-legislative proposal by the G.P. Mixto, at the initiative of Mr. Luís Villares Naveira and Mr. Francisco Casal Vidal, on the creation by the Galego Institute of Economic Promotion of a liquidity programme for the advance of unpaid wage workers when the company is declared insolvent or in the contest of creditors
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u206	The motion for a non-law tabled an amendment by the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u207	Mr. Villares has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u208	How are you? Good morning, gentlemen. Today we've come to realize a problem that has many families and many companies, and for which a fair, agile and, in addition, with little economic cost could be dispensed. I'll explain. When a company enters into crisis and cannot cope with its payment commitments, specifically wages, there is a certain period during which the workers and workers of that company remain completely defenceless and in a deeply vulnerable economic situation, which harms not only that worker or worker but also his entire family and, of course, the whole economy of a territory. This situation is living in a recurring fashion in many companies in our country, as is the case, since the end of last summer, of Muebles Hermida, in Vilanova de Lourenzá. His staff — from what he accompanies us today — a representation of his corporate committee, and those I greet from the rostrum, around a hundred workers and workers, have been unpaid for more than five months. It's just a few, besides, that we know by law that they have a right to them; yet they haven't been able to perceive it for more than five months. This causes dramatic situations when, in some cases, it is the two parents of a family who work in the company and in that home they no longer perceive any income. We're talking about real situations that any of us can understand: problems with mortgage payments, problems with rent payments, problems with dependent children or dependent people. In short, problems to keep up with life itself. And in view of this state of affairs, ladies and gentlemen, there are mechanisms from the state that aim to pay workers and workers of wages and wages pending to steal when the company has been declared insolvent in an acres contest, through the Fire. So you might wonder what the problem is. For the problem is that for this mechanism to act, it is necessary that these credits be recognised through a conciliation act, a court decision or a certificate from the contest administrators who believe that there are pending amounts of payment. So since the company no longer pays wages until workers and workers get them effectively, it takes a period of time that for the life of these people it is very harmful. In this way, it is important, fundamental — I would say — to develop some kind of institutional mechanism that will enable us to cope with this time gap that we have to deal with the workers and the workers of the companies in this situation. The purpose of the proposal that we bring to this Chamber today is that, in the face of a wage-free situation, the Self-Government may react by moving ahead to the amounts which are then recognised by law to the workers and to the workers and that the competitive procedure is extended on occasion in nine months. The goal is to avoid the social consequences that this temporary lapse has on workers and workers. The measure, as we are going to formulate it, is not very serious for the Galician Union, since it is a simple economic advance which is soon recovered from the collection of the amounts recognized in the contest. So it's about preventing the lack of liquidity in families from being a problem as a result of competitive times. I mean, we're talking about an institutional performance that's going through competitive times. It is far more effective, ladies and gentlemen, that the Council of Galicia collectively assumes this situation that what is happening now, that each person has to negotiate individually with his bank, with his landlord, etc., suspending payments for months, which in turn collapses the consumption chain and in turn collapses the local economy. Finally, it is important — and I would like to refer to this too late — to present a manifest experience similar to that of a singular nature which has recently taken place within the Spanish State itself, which has been successful and which has given rise to the consequences, already by themselves, of a competitive process. For this effect, there are up to three different formulae where you can fix the Join and from which you choose one: The recent experience of a tourist company in Balearics, in particular Thomas Cook, which led to an important volume of workers, not only from the company itself, but also from other companies in the tourism sector, being seen in a competitive situation as a result of the British giant's own crack, and which gave rise to a response by the Whaling Government also in advance of the quantities that would subsequently be formalized and materialized in the corresponding competitive procedures. This is certainly the recent experience most suited to the proposal we make here today, but there are others, for example, in the agricultural sector when the payments are made to the account due to the producers. It's another different formulation. And deliveries to the account also of subsidies that are known to be due, but that have not yet materialized their payment, for example, because they come from European funds. Or, finally, a somewhat earlier case in time, but which had an impact that none of us could have on, as a result of the Prestige's sinisterness, where in addition to quantities that were much more demanding and were much more difficult to determine about its own content and the very existence of its own heritage responsibility were assumed in advance by the administration itself, in some cases by the Autonomic Administration and in other cases by the General Administration of the State, in the sort of subrogation on the judicial actions itself that could correspond to those affected and affected as a result of the Prestige accident. Therefore, they function as an advance, and from there both the State and the Autonomous Community, but essentially the State through several decrees, they subrogated themselves into the creditor legal position of the people concerned and then exercised judicial action. This case would be much simpler, much simpler, because there is a regulation, which is the one that establishes all the credit rights that workers and workers have in the case of the competitive mass, in case the company stops permanently in the business and also in relation to the guarantees of payments that relate to the Fire, even if the company later can continue the activity. I don't want to forget either that we're in liquidity or insolvency situations that is sometimes not definitive and that can therefore be cut short; a simple business bargain that still has very serious social consequences for the workers and for the workers that can then be solved. For the company, it is solved without any major problems when it can continue its economic activity, but for the workers and for the workers for a few months, the situation has been truly dramatic. What do we have to do with it? It is up to us collectively to try to overcome this situation by offering mechanisms that at low cost for the Galician Union have a great economic and social impact on the territory where competitive situations occur. As I said before, any of the situations I've related have in common the advance of amounts that are known to be due and that must be paid. Well, the question that needs to be asked in particular is whether the Galician Union has the competence to carry out this measure. The answer is positive. And there are several bodies that could deal with this, but we understand, and that is why we have made the specific formulation, that the Galego Institute of Economic Promotion, of what we have just talked about now and of what they have just listed the virtues of their work done over the last twenty-five years, can within their powers assume these functions. I would also like to recall that within the Igape Statute itself, the role of improving the Greek production system by facilitating processes of creation, consolidation and business growth. Ladies and gentlemen, the competitive phase of a particular company fortunately does not always mean the cessation of its activity. Therefore, the support given to the company for the continuation of its activity must also have the correlation of social responsibility as a whole of society through also the abolition of these amounts to workers and workers, who are, on the other hand, those who constitute the labor force that makes that company later can continue in addition to the sacrifice of their own wages, with resignations in their own beings or in their own ERTEs, so that they can subsequently continue to pursue a business activity. So it's time that this body, which aims at business continuity, also serves to bridge the situation with regard to workers and workers. The creation of a program of these characteristics basically consists — and that's what we bring to the House — in the creation of a fund for the advance of liquidity in the payment of wages due to workers and workers in situations of insolvency of companies, with subsequent subrogation in their legal position of creditors of those amounts in the competitive process. In forensic practice, ladies and gentlemen, this advance is for a maximum period of about nine months, so in economic terms, since the amounts are legally guaranteed via Fogasa with their interest for late, for the Board the economic cost of this advance would be reduced to management costs, which once standardized the procedure would be very reduced. I mean, we're talking about the creation of a fund, a fund with a budget allocation, which moves to businesses according to needs as a result of these payments, which is recovered in less than a year. That's what competition practice itself says. Therefore, it is an amount that goes and returns and that remains at the board of Galicia over time, besides that it recovers with interest, as established by the competition law itself. So we're just talking about running post management costs. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about a program that at low management costs can achieve a high social and economic benefit in people and families who usually reside in the same territorial environment, where the situation of business crisis can have a negative impact or, on the other hand, can be cushioned by such a measure. In the case that we refer to Muebles Hermida, we are talking about a small place where the wage impact of this situation is very serious throughout the economy of the area. Therefore, situations with proposals as well as those we make would greatly address situations such as those we are describing. We also thought that the constitution of the fund itself could be activated immediately by establishing a game...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u209	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u210	... yes, I have already finished — of budgetary credit and could come into force and apply to this particular case in the event that once constituted the bottom-up the situation of default continues for the whole of workers and workers, for whom we hope the situation will be resolved as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u211	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u212	Thank you, President. Since the Galician Nationalist Block we will vote in favour of this proposal which brings the Joint Group to debate today. It seems to us an interesting initiative and it's a space where the Igape could act as a lesser evil by solving problems that happen at times, and due to lack of political will, we are not responding by the Greek Administration. Mr Villares was speaking in particular about the situation of Muebles Hermida, but we can remember something else that has been debated in this parliament. On his day we talk about this question of Church Woods. We're also talking about the ship's defaults, which Igape's manager replied that the economy was regulated by itself and that's it, and the solutions are raining like this from the air by magic art. We can also talk about the very situation of the Isobar workers I mentioned in the previous debate, who also went through this situation of defaults for many months. And we could put a much longer list. Surely if the Galician Board were concerned to book Igape's accounts for this, and not for its twenty-five anniversary fiestuchy, it would have been better. [[Applause]] And basically there are two big problems: one, that lack of political will, and one that really is a failure of the work framework itself. We don't want to stop insisting on this issue, because the truth is we have a framework that has been set up to benefit the great oligarchies in the place of our country's working class, and that goes to the detriment of more and more workers having less certainty and less security in dealing with their daily lives. That also has repercussions when a particular company gets into crisis, and those workers and workers don't have a personal or family support to bear that situation, and so they're going to need more than ever that administration is next to them. That's because the system is designed to favor a few rather than the majority of society. That is why we have also spoken in other debates that in these years of crisis have increased the number of rich instead of increasing social equality. And we can also see it in objective data, which I suppose will come here by the People's Party to deny, like the weight of wages in the gross domestic product. In 2009 we could talk about forty-eight percent and in the third quarter of 2019 we talked about 42.4 percent. So there's a class conflict, there's also a national conflict, because in Galicia there's a six-percent drop in wages, while within the European Union 28 has dropped only 0.8 points and in the Spanish state less than four points. We can also see this at the price per hour worked. In Galicia there are 17 euros per hour, in the European framework at 23.7 euros per hour, in the Spanish State at 19.7 euros per hour. Here, too, we see the loss of real purchasing power that the working class of Galicia has if we compare it with inflation. We see that between 2009 and 2018 wages increased by 5.2 percent, and still seems fatal to the People's Party that could increase more, if inflation was 11.8%. Therefore, the actual loss of purchasing power of the Greeks and Greeks was almost seven percent. That's what makes this day for a lot of people to work directly to survive, and that when there's a situation like this in which there's a dead end, it's something that's serious in itself, but that gravity is multiplying. But the underlying problem, too, in addition to the structural situation of the labour market, is the lack of will of the German Government. Mr. Villares said very well on his behalf, that there is no will. Because we have examples of other times that he mentioned, we have examples of other latitudes, we have even other possibilities, because, indeed, it does not seem bad for us to do this through the Igape, but the voice of the proposed group itself said there would be other formulas even. But the point is, if you don't want to take care of this urgency, you don't want to see that the Galician Union exercises government. It surprises us in these months, in addition, that they are becoming almost independentists and on the verge of proposing to us an autarchy in economic terms as well. But the truth is it's more evidence of a lack of political will. I wanted to finish with a final reflection. We should also at some point address the failure that is currently having the competition law and second opportunity. The truth is it's a failure to apply it, and that's why it's been reformed almost on thirty occasions, and that's why a ninety percent of the companies that join this route end up failing. I read in the previous debate the example of Isobar and I can't help but remember it again. Something fails if a legal mechanism, a procedure that is planned to, in theory, give a new opportunity to companies that have conditions to go on, and that almost never happens, is that something is also failing in an economic and legal system, which is acting as a shredder of the productive sectors instead of protecting them. Simply insist that the amendment we incorporate goes into the line of the previous debate, that we understand that when Igape exists, it must be clarified that compliance with the Board of Auditors' orders is taking place or not, and that at some point there should also be a debate on how we reform the instruments for something. If the People's Party won't give it now...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u213	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u214	...we hope that in a few months there will be another government capable of giving it. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u215	Thank you. Joint Left Group, Mrs. Torregrosa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u216	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, our group fully shares the intention of this initiative, since in the processes of laziness, breakdown or competition of the companies that are lost are always the workers and the workers, who are unprotected from situations of unemployment and crises and no longer understand the wages that they are paid. Of course it is a necessity, not only necessary, but it is essential to deal with these payments and delays that may occur. In the field of justice, in addition, the competences of autonomous communities are almost non-existent. We therefore believe that it is clear that all issues that directly affect citizenship like these issues, where closer management of the administrative type would facilitate most of the management's responses, should be raised. The only doubt we have is whether truly the Igape would be the most appropriate entity to take over that work as well. Because if it's true that we've already made criticism of everything that should improve Igape, on the other hand, it's obvious that you already have a lot of strategic tasks. And we understand that for this we could enable a specific mechanism from the Council of Economics, Employment and Industry, which also seems to be that since the Union has to do well not to implement the precise budgets, we will not necessarily have a budgetary problem to deal with these workers and workers. That if we're talking about workers and workers in Greece, we're talking about 4,200 Greeks and Greeks who have been in this situation in the last year. It is also foreseeable that, in the face of this slowdown in the economy, the negative evolution of the files entering Fogasa — that state-level entity so far — will be reversed, and these files have increased by 12 percent in the last year. I mean, there's going to be more and more people who might be affected by this situation. In addition, we also want to insist that the situation of the PP's competitive law did one before and one after on the theme of the companies in competition, since they had to provide privileged credits for the workers — and this means that they were the first to charge debts, they were the wage debts that had to be first mad—, since this approval of the PP's competitive law, wages became considered regular credits. We remember that they are charged in order of priority: firstly, claims against the mass, which are considered in the case of the worker's salary in the last month only due; secondly, the privileged and thirdly, the ordinary. And from the PP's competitive law, these wage debts to the workers and to the workers were considered as regular credits, that is, they have to be claimed, they're last place, and any other creditor of the company itself becomes in the same situation as the workers' rights. Finally, the current situation, in addition to the medium of Fogasa, this state entity, has a number of problems relating to the limitations of both the daily wage limits and the overall wage limit and the compensation limit, and also a temporary limit of one hundred and twenty days, that sometimes these claims can lead to complex procedures, which are not clearly determined by the company from the outset, and can be extended to a point that the worker or the worker cannot be in a position to claim and that he permanently loses these salary rights. For all this, we believe that it is absolutely necessary to have an autonomous background, that it is recoverable for administration and that it acts with greater agility, so that it may be asked by the worker or the worker before the first defaults and that it is recovered by the administration, if eventually the recovery occurs, or by accreditor substitution in case it is not so. For our part, nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u217	Thank you, Mrs. Torregrosa. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Dacosta.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u218	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. The GNP we are dealing with deals with the advance of wages due to workers and workers whose companies are in competitive processes, requesting the creation of a liquidity program within the Igape. The payment of wages pending payment is the responsibility of the Salary Guarantee Fund, as set out in the Staff Regulations, Article 33 and the Competition Law, Article 64. Fogasa, as I said, is an autonomous body that is a member of the Ministry of Labour which grants workers the wages or compensation pending to be paid by the company in two cases: one, as the colleague Villares said, when the company's insolvency is declared by the competent Social Court and two, when the company is declared in competition with creditors. In order for the Salary Guarantee Fund to pay these unpaid wages for the worker, at most — we have to say that it pays for four months — this worker must have a firm judgment in possession that recognises the debt and also a car that also declares that the company is obviously insolvent and that it cannot cope with the payments. For that path of insolvency, the fact is that this is not short, because it has to demand a prior conciliation before the SMAC, it demands before the competent Social Judge, the celebration of the act of the trial, which is called judgment by the Social Judge and the self-execution of sentence and self-resolvency. But also the second part — which is what this motion is about — speaks of the certificate of the competitive administration of the company declared in competition with creditors. This year, the Salary Guarantee Fund has paid workers an unabated amount of €13,744,000, of which €6,609,000 are derived from competitive procedures. I think it's a figure, of course, to reflect, gentlemen of the People's Party. In particular, five thousand twelve people in Galicia were affected by these procedures. And in all, the Salary Guarantee Fund, including compensation, paid more than twenty-four million euros, coming out, ladies and gentlemen, from the citizens' pockets and the discount on contributions, from the basis of contributions in their payrolls. But what the People's Party does not arrange either with active and effective employment policies, but on the contrary: ineffective, short-term practitioners, who achieve in this labour market in Greece precariousness, temporality, inequality and low wages. It seems that yesterday's EPA didn't like the People's Party very much, because I didn't see the rating made from that bench about the data. Just a few tweets out there that come out as well as assuming some data that I don't think can be assumed, because we have to say that the number of assets dropped in thirty-eight thousand two hundred people, about 2.93 percent. Descent only surpassed by Andalucía and Madrid. When Feijó went to Galicia, the unemployment rate was 1,152,000 busy workers, today the busy workers dropped to 1,096,000. The drop in unemployment in Galicia is below the average drop in Spain. As for inter-trimonthly variation, we have two thousand and three hundred more unemployed people in Galicia. Well, employment and precarious work in Galicia walk hand in hand, according to the unions, and we agree with this assessment. On the subject that we are dealing with, we also have to be, as you say, just with the Salary Guarantee Fund and say that it is true that the deadlines have been very short. In 2019, Luis, you know that the single province has been installed, with which the files are solved in two months. But we are the socialists agree that still the times for the workers are, of course, very long and desperate the lack of liquidity that produces this lack of wages, because the banks, the renters, the mortgages, the food of the children, the basic needs of a family economy do not understand certificates of the Salary Guarantee Fund or certificates of the competitive administrator. In that line, we have to support this motion, as it cannot be otherwise. If it's true that we have to then specify the number of months in which the aid is going to proceed. I imagine that four months as the Salary Guarantee Fund pays so that Galicia does not lose those wages, the content of this abortion, the form of cost impact, etc. It is true that orders were made in Balearics with Thomas Cook's company in this regard. And this one was basically different because they talked more about ahead of five hundred euros of aid wages for four months...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u219	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u220	...I think that in that line you proposed would be much more complete. Nothing else, on our part, and approve of this LNP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u221	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta. People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vázquez Domínguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u222	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I begin my intervention by greeting the workers of the Hermida Furniture who accompany us in the guest gallery. Welcome! Ladies and gentlemen, the industrial policies of the Government of Pedro Sánchez are generating enormous mistrust and uncertainty that is already being noticed, causing significant economic downturn. Not only do I say it, but the spokesperson for the Joint Left Group also said there was a slowdown. In view of this situation of fear on the part of the Central Socialist Government, concern and insecurity cause instability in the Greek companies. But look, Mrs. Rodríguez: it seems that you have not been pending at the meeting of budgets for 2020 by the Economic, Employment and Industry Council, but I already inform you that the 24 — if I already inform you, and Mrs. Blanco, I also inform you a little bit, which is perhaps quite sober—. It's good to remember, ladies and gentlemen, that in that audience...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u223	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u224	The data is given to me now, Mrs. Blanco. At this meeting the advisor announced a support package for companies and workers affected by the current moment of instability. That support package includes a new worker aid program affected by you are equipped with four million euros. A measure framed within the social dialogue involving employers and trade unions. This measure, with four million euros, has two lines. One, for cases of suspension of contracts or reduction of the day, is directed to collaborate in the maintenance of incomes of the least-paid persons and their training plan. And another for people working with fifty-five or more years affected by the termination of contracts by companies in crisis. Aid for the financing of quotas to enter social security, by the special agreement or to compensate for the reduction in the amount of compensation. But it does not end here the wagering of the Government of Greece, as it strengthens the Resolve programme, aimed at facilitating the operational financing of pemes, with 1.8 million euros. The Greek Government also strengthens its access to the guarantee fund for risks of acquisitions and payments not made by mutual-guarantee companies, with EUR 7 million, in addition to a new programme to support loan renewals and the refinancing of debts with the Galego Institute for Economic Promotion, with EUR 8 million. So in 2020 more than three funds have been multiplied to accompany people and weaker companies in the context of uncertainty and slowdown in recent months and probably this year because of the Socialist Central Government's desire. Mr. Villares, you spoke in your Fogasa explanatory statement. I don't know if you know that Fogasa is an autonomous body assigned to a central government ministry. And I say ministry, and I don't specify it, because although he should be in charge of his former companion Yolanda Díaz, Minister of Labour and Social Economy, President Sánchez has already charged himself that the control of social security is not in the hands of the United Nations We can, I don't know whether he mistrusted or because he has nightmares at night. Finally, the Ministry of Labour or — better known — an empty ministry, but full of advisers, does not have within its competence to ensure the collection of wages, compensation for dismissal of outstanding labour relations due to the competitive insolvency of the employer. But one question, Mr. Villares: if Social Security is of State competence, you want the Government of Greece to pay and the Central Government to cover. You look for the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks! Unless you owe us 300 million euros, you intend to owe us a lot more! Look: don't count on this group so it will continue to despise every day all the Greeks and all the Greeks. Of course, we will continue to fight for what belongs to us, a money that belongs to all the Greeks. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, they will find a difference between a government that governs and cares about Galician jobs and a government that only cares about expanding employment on the Council of Ministers. It's like: January 9th June June's Councils: the June boosts the competitiveness of business parks, sixty-seven million euros in the German business fabric. June 16th, 2020: The active Union supports around EUR 24.5 million. June 23rd, 2020: The Union is pushing the local government through three programmes to enable the Greek municipalities to hire a thousand and eight hundred unemployed. Council of Ministers of January 14th: zero; January 17th: zero; January 21st: zero; January 28th: zero. There are no more questions to add. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u225	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Domínguez. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u226	I'm feeling a little sad about Mrs Vázquez's intervention, because having the opportunity to give an answer to a problem has dedicated itself to doing different things, to getting closer... yes, you think that the workers and the workers are interested in something of that mess that you intend to put in and divert this debate. The IVE debate... No, no, we're not talking about anything like that. And besides, you're -- I don't know -- trying to find or put here a smoke curtain to answer the problem you're trying to solve. You've talked about support packages, triple Igape's resources for companies in crisis for this year. Is that tripling of funds going to solve business problems like this for the workers? Are they going to solve them, yes or no? Yes, there's Mrs. Vázquez saying from her seat that yes, that she's going to fix it. Does this mean that, as a result and as a result of these programs, you're going to make an advance treasury so that you can charge the four payrolls before Fogasa settles in the competitive procedure? If you say yes, if you solve the problems, you will also have to answer positively this second question that I ask you, say "Yes" or say "No." The silence by answer we already know what the meaning is. [[Mrs. Vázquez Domínguez gesticulates from his chair.]] Yes or no? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Say "Yes" or say "No." Sure, it's very easy. [[Mrs. Vázquez Domínguez gesticulates from his chair.]] So he said he could solve the problems of these specific workers, this specific section, that I think I just exposed quite clearly. You say yes, that you can solve it, and if I say in this particular case if this means that you can earn wages, you do nothing more. Well, if that tripling of funds doesn't result in this problem being solved, maybe more funds will have to be set. And that's where this initiative came from, to a fund that had that advance treasury in particular. Look: either you haven't read the initiative or you don't know what's going on when you say the Government pays and the Government of Spain receives and charges. No, first, the bottom we propose is a fund that is at the disposal of these insolvency situations to advance workers' wages, which then is received back — it is a mere advance of treasury — of the amounts due as a result of the reception of the Fire, since they are determined in the competitive procedure. It's just an advance of treasure, it's nothing more. There's no one here to cover and another to pay, no. Here those who want them to cover are the workers and the workers in time, so they can pay their bills at the end of the month, as you do. [[Applause]] Well, we'd like you to give a affirmative answer. Will you vote in favour of the non-law proposal?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u227	Do you accept the BNG amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u228	It will depend on whether the intervening lady of the People's Party is conditional, because at best I admit the proposal...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u229	That has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u230	...No, by amendment of the block...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u231	No, no, you. That doesn't make any sense. You...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u232	...Then? Original version: Are you willing to accept it? yes or no?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u233	No, don't accept it, she doesn't. She'll tell you by vote.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u234	I'm talking because I want to make a deal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u235	But do it later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u236	I want to make a deal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u237	Well, then we'll leave him for later. Okay. Then it's over, Mr. Villares. Thank you. No, talk about it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u238	With regard to the amendment we have no problem with accepting the amendment; now well, I suppose Mrs. Presas fully understands that if it prevents that agreement, we leave it for the best time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u239	Well, then they make me move their deal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u240	All right. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira and eight other Members, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Greece to require the Government of Spain to convene the urgent call of the Bureau of the Bridges
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u241	This motion for a non-law amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block, the Joint Parliamentary Group, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Joint Left Group, that is, of all groups, less than I propose.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u242	Then, to formulate the non-law proposition, Mr. Tellado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u243	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, this initiative goes, as Mr. Villares would say, about the problems of the bridge workers. And so we're going to talk about these problems and see what is the willingness of opposition groups to collaborate in the search for solutions for some workers who want nothing more and nothing less than to continue doing what they did until a few months ago and be able to keep up their jobs, no less or less. The maintenance of these jobs, which some of them have come for years to ask this camera to be lost, to be destroyed to meet their hunger. Today we're talking about the Bridges again. We're talking again about seventy families that are still living in the absolute uncertainty. We talk again about the carriers who mortgaged their homes, mortgaged their lives to renew their trucks, with the promise that the power plant had decades of useful life ahead. We're talking again about a region, the Eume district, which has no central threat to the closure, the closure of a whole region. We're talking about employment; we're talking about economic activity; we're talking about industry; we're talking about economics. But we talk about people, about real problems; we talk about families and, therefore, we talk about the present and we talk about the future. I know perfectly well that this in recent times, in Spain by Pedro Sánchez, is a frivolity: to come here to talk about industry, employment, people, families, family security and a region. You can sound boring. Because the Socialist Party for months, and now its partners too, only cared about a person, his present, his future, his problems, his employment and the employment of his friends. For the Socialist Party, for months there was only Pedro Sánchez, and they forgot everything else, and those who accompany him in government too. Meanwhile, they were letting everything fade, creating new problems where there were no problems with their mismanagement and causing these problems to persist until they almost became irreversible. We say the bridge problem is reversible. I know you want palliative care for a county. And we want to give back the jobs to the people you want to take them. The Bridges is the best example of what has been since June 2018 and what the Socialist Government is. There was a thermal power plant that worked perfectly, a thermal power plant that guarantees hundreds of jobs, a thermal power plant that had made the investments necessary to comply with European Union regulations, control of polluting emissions, which would allow it to continue working until 2045. But Commander Ribera arrived and ordered to stop. Before he was a minister, he made a report to Mr. Pedro Sánchez saying that the thermals had to be closed, and then from the Government he executed the order. They arrived at the Government and executed that decision, regardless of whether or not the power stations adapted to European pollution emission control regulations, whether they were viable, and regardless of the economic impact on the affected areas. They kicked the coal from the energy market through the tax route. They taxed the Spanish thermal power stations. That's why they shut down the thermal power stations in Spain and that's why they're still in operation in the rest of Europe, because they suffocated the thermal power plants through the tax route in Spain. And when the centrals picked up the message and decided to close, the only concern of the Socialist Party was that the Spaniards didn't know until after November 10, the date of the general election. That's all socialists were concerned about this. Galicia has always been committed to the pursuit of a fair, orderly energy transition. Something that can't say the Government of Pedro Sánchez, who always bet on the rupture and the abrupt closure of the thermal power stations. We have launched the Energy and Climate Change Strategy of the Galician Union for Horizon 2050. This fair and orderly transition, planned in Galicia, comes about to achieve an alternative to keep Endesa's activity alive while looking for those biofuels that reach the viability needed to continue the activity. In this objective, the technical committee on which Joina participates should be focused, the central government should participate and the company should participate. We hope that this need for teamwork will serve to get the Government to recapacitate and the Socialist Government to immediately call on the Bureau to address a fair energy transition to the regions of Ferrolterra, the Eume and Ortegal. And that's why we bring this initiative today. A very simple initiative that we do not want to complicate with amendments that will make the decision more difficult and the more complex positioning. Because the positioning must be simple and we must send a message, first of all, to the citizenship of the Bridges and of the whole region, and then to the Government of Spain; a simple message, of support, resounding to the jobs that depend on this central. Galicia can't abandon families, and we, of course, won't. And that's why we ask the Government of Pedro Sánchez to react and ask the company to put in place the measures necessary to adopt a solution. We call for the reopening of the thermal power plant, the immediate reopening of the thermal power plant. And we asked the Government to reject the company's request to close the thermal power plant. That's what we asked for. The Government of Pedro Sánchez has a triple commitment to Galicia: Firstly, to articulate this fair transition plan that will continue to work and employment, while European funds cannot be opted for. Secondly, to put in place tax mechanisms, such as the removal of green cent for coal, as it was done for gas, or the payment by capacity, in addition to the new mechanisms to facilitate and promote biofuels that are more environmentally friendly. And to claim more funds to the European Union, since Spain is one of the major problems in the distribution of so-called green funds, because the European Commission is going to dominate the countries that shut down their facilities in the coming years, not those that have already closed. So he left the minister's hands on his decision. There are more than a hundred thermal power stations in Europe like the one in the Bridges that will continue to operate until 2030, they will continue to operate. The reality is that we shut down the power stations because there's someone trying to be the first in the class and running a lot without knowing where he's going and not measuring the consequences of his decisions. In fact, the one who is penalizing this decision most is our autonomous community, the one who is penalizing this decision most is Galicia, which leads a lot of way in the generation of renewable energy, since it already duplicates today the renewable energy rate that Europe marks by 2030. Therefore, Galicia is already green, before anyone. And, therefore, Galicia deserves no greater punishment than the others. We are asking for a fair transition, not a break, and we ask that be that: transition, and that, of course, leave no one behind. That's our request. You come here asking for work tables, asking for subsidies, asking for a palliative care plan. And we are asking for employment, so that the power plant will continue to operate in a transitional way to adapt to those biofuels that are more environmentally friendly, waiting for these European funds. So, not making decisions that are harmful to a county that is already tired of suffering the contempt and punishment of socialist governments over the last few decades. We ask the Government of Spain, therefore, to urgently call upon the Bureau of the Bridges to establish the roadmap to guarantee a future for those seventy-fifty families that depend on the thermal power plant. What we ask of the Government is that you do not accept the processing of the closure file you have requested Endesa until you complete the tests with these fuel mixtures and therefore there are on the table viable alternatives that allow the maintenance of employment. Our suggestion is that we do not resign ourselves to a closure which, of course, is unfair to the Eume district. We didn't resign ourselves to losing an industry that was fundamental to Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u244	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u245	...and fundamental to the regions of Ferrolterra, the Eume and Ortegal. I gave the data on yesterday: the city council of the Bridges is Galicia's second highest per capita income and the county of the Bridges is Galicia's highest average pension, and that's thanks to wealth, employment and quality employment that has allowed for decades the thermal power plant of the Bridges, which we are not willing to resign to be closed by a political decision of the Government of Pedro Sánchez. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u246	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado. For the Joint Group, Mr. Casal Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u247	Good day again. Well, we know that the workers who care most about the People's Party are the ones who can use to go against the government of the state and that the greatest interest in this GNP is not to look at the future of the Bridges, but to mount electoral arguments, an interest with expiry. If a crisis cannot be used electorally or is directly responsible for the Galician Union, then the interest returns to abandonment, and the case of Isowat is very eloquent. How did a key company for the energy transition in Galicia be closed to the inaction or defence of other interests — we don't know — by the Galician Union? If they hadn't, they wouldn't have tried to cheat on the citizenship of the Bridges and the whole Ferrolterra hypercommaral. An energy transition cannot be fair unless it is against the fight against climate change; otherwise it would be a real irresponsibility. Nor is it fair to spend an inordinate amount of money on maintaining economically and environmentally unsustainable energy sources, instead of investing that money in the future, in this future case for The Bridges and the whole Ferroterra. And he says his non-legislation proposal that it is not accepted — as you have already stated — the processing of the closure file presented by the company; that is, to continue the central burning whatever it is. That's the reality. This is not only environmentally unfriendly, but economically and technically also unfriendly, and you know it. To say this is to sell smoke, smoke with electoral smell, that's right. Let's imagine, for example, that they give you the reason, that the Socialist Party votes in favour, the Lords of Podemos too, elected the Government of the State and told you that yes, come on: we're going to force Endesa to continue to burn, whatever it is, let's imagine it's biomass. First, this would have to matter, because I don't think you want to forest all of Galicia. You see that one power plant in one year would burn the equivalent of 2.8 million hectares of forest, the entire area of Galicia. They would import it as in that central you know in the United Kingdom, but they would also deforest — I don't know — Angola, Virginia, whatever it was. But, of course, Endesa won't start working by losing 25 euros per megawatt hour, which is what it would cost. How much would it cost? Two million euros a day. The thermal power plant in the United Kingdom receives EUR 3.5 million daily. That is, for a year, seven hundred and thirty million euros. In addition, they also hide that when SO2 and NO2 emission reduction works are stopped it would be impossible to operate beyond December 31, 2020. But for the People's Party what happens on December 31, 2020 is no longer the problem, the problem is to arrive at these elections with electoral arguments. The rest is missing. And wouldn't it be much better to invest these seven hundred and thirty million euros, and not just this, but a much smaller amount in a sustainable and lasting future for the Bridges? Well, that's where all of our proposals we put yesterday in our motion, and with some we could give an immediate exit to the most directly affected sectors, such as truck drivers and auxiliary companies. If they haven't read them, read them again, because there are concrete proposals precisely with the possibility of putting in place immediately and with a truly incomparable cost, nor of the five percent of those seven hundred thirty million euros that you want all Spaniards and the Greeks to spend that Endesa continue to burn whatever it is. But the People's Party despised them yesterday, voted against. I imagine you'll despise them today too. Because he doesn't want to talk about alternatives, he just wants to keep the conflict at risk for economy and life on the Bridges. We don't want palliative care, Mr. Tellado. That's exactly what you propose: palliative care until election day. What we want is a fair future, with decent and sustainable work, in addition to a social cost and for the public money infinitely inferior to the alternative you propose. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u248	Thank you very much, Mr. Casal. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u249	I have some bad news for you, Mr. Tellado. I know you're forced to bring this issue, which we think is important, to try to feed an idea that you are alone in the defence of the Bridges. But it's bad news: we're still there, Mr. Tellado, we're going to keep putting this question on the table, at any cost. [[Applause]] I know they're fucked, but they're also fucked, we're telling them to go to the courts on the matter of the IVE Worse barbarities inside this camera, eh! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's see if we're going to scandalize now!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u250	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u251	I know that they're upset, that they're going to... yesterday they didn't like the verb proer, now they don't like others... okay, I know they're going to, but we're going to stay on that question. [[Murmurs.]] I also mistook them for telling them they had the courage to go to the courts on the matter of debt with Galicia. Even he was a little scared the president of Galician board this morning to say whether or not he was going; now it seems like they're going. Well, welcome, welcome, welcome! There's the question. [[Applause]] Well, in any case, I wanted my first words on this issue to be to convey our solidarity with the workers and workers of the Bridges, also with the liabilities, and to transmit to them that we will also be of his hand in that struggle against that shameful arbitral praise of that former minister of the People's Party, which implies the worst agreement in the history of Endesa and which is a robbery to the armed hand of social rights which were conquered by the working class and which are now in question. [[Applause]] We're convinced and convinced that this battle will be won at some point too. And that's also, by the way, responsibility for the passage by state governments, both the People's Party and the Socialist Party and their labour policy. Just as we came here — and I would like to remind you briefly — about the energy policy of some and others, who have favored that we are now in the hands of an Italian public company instead of a Galician public company or state company. And, of course, now he comes asking Mr. Tellado to the company that he doesn't shut down. So look: just like he could be in his hand, maybe he could be in the hands of the state the calendar, the deadlines and the way that that power plant worked, and he could be already working on a plan B and not in the situation he's in. But that's because of your responsibility. And I wanted to remember some questions here on the table. First, we present an amendment, and I want to clarify what, because according to Mr. Tellado it seems to be a literature exercise, but it's something with three very specific points: First, the Bureau of Work, but the Bureau of Work clarifying who, how, when and where. All agents, too, those unions you don't like, Mr. Tellado, but they're majority in this country, too. [[Applause]] And on the Bridges and from The Bridges, because we don't want palliative care, we want social rights and we want written commitments. For that, you have to actively participate in the territory. And we're also asking for a commitment from the Galician Union, because you also have skills in industry and you have issues to make. And we're asking for collaboration with the Bridge Council, which is also part of that emergency table that's already running. It's as simple as that. We're also not asking for the declaration of the Welsh Republic, nor a communist state, Mr. Tellado. So that's what's clear there. Then I'd ask the People's Party for some honesty. Mr. Tellado answered this question, but he left this morning at the presence of the President of Galician Union and also at the presence of Mr. Rueda yesterday. And I want to put here in value that, indeed, the BNG in its negotiations with the Socialist Party for the investment pact put The Bridges and the energy transition on the table. He put it on the table, Mr Tellado. And since you haven't read your own initiative and you've also invented here what you had of content, because you shouldn't have time to read the BNG deal. So he put it on the table that the same conditions exist for Galicia as for other territories, starting with the Coal Plan. Because here when we vote on the Coal Plan...—then Mr. Puy said that there were many agreements in the Welsh Agenda of the People's Party emanating from this parliament—But here, when we ask that the debts of the Coal Plan be paid and that Galicia be included, the People's Party votes in favour of the periods in which the Socialist Party governed, and the Socialist Party votes in favour of the periods in which the People's Party governed, but we want everything, because the situation of the Bridges would be different if it had those resources. [[Applause]] And that's what we demand. I also say more: go to the courts as well as to other autonomous communities. Take that suggestion. And we're also asking for the "country team" on an equal footing. You take that medal too, but what they did in 2017 when they constituted Álvaro Nadal—Alvaro Nadal knows who it was, don't you know?—that "country team" excluding Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u252	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u253	So those issues are going to be on the table, and also that negotiating table directly on the Bridges. Of course, we'll demand it, we'll demand it from the Central Government, we'll demand it from the Galician Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u254	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u255	Because we won't be bound by anyone's hands in the defense of the Bridges.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u256	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u257	We don't want palliative care, we want rights, Mr. Voice of the People's Party. Negotiate with us the amendment, if you want...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u258	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u259	...but if you don't, that strategy won't work either...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u260	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u261	...of distraction.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u262	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived to address the presidency.]] [[Applause]] Yeah, that's what everyone says. That's what everyone who comes up says. For the Joint Left Group, Mr. Sánchez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u263	Well, more lies and more cynicism, Mr. Tellado. Who lies constantly ends up being a liar. And you lie to wisdom, besides; you know it. Talk about solutions. What are the solutions you put on the table in Galicia? None. And he's talking about the workers and the transporters. We recognize it, that the transporters are the collective that needs solutions already, that they have made investments because Endesa has committed to giving them a working horizon and now they pay the letters every month and are stopped at home. What solutions did the Galician Union bring to the truckers? None! And we're talking about investments of fourteen million euros that wouldn't even have to be dealt with as a whole. They're asking for shortages or soft credits to be able to live and not lose even if it's their homes. You didn't provide a solution. I'm a government, government! But that's not the intention, your intention is to make electoralism with this, that's the only intention. Because, otherwise, they would also be talking about the powers this government has to provide solutions, and they don't. I wouldn't have time in this intervention to deny all lies. The first is that this is not a business decision, which is a government decision. You're lying! You said you wanted to be the first minister of the class, and I'm not going to defend the minister, who knows that I tell you you have the same responsibility as you in not giving people solutions and certainty. But the first one in the class when you're a member of the only state that doesn't have a thermal closure calendar is to lie to wisdom. When you talk about fiscal policy, mind the wisdom, because Mr. Álvaro Nadal, in 2018, signed an order in which payments were eliminated by availability to the combined cycle plants, which is also in the Bridges. Or to the Government of Mariano Rajoy, that Mr. Álvaro Nadal was what put seven percent, the tax of the electricity generation. Yes, sir! And you were so quiet. And you didn't bring any initiatives here. They're Pharisees. Investments to comply with emission directives. You play confusion. You know that investments to meet polluting emissions have nothing to do with emissions that cause global climate change growth. Know it and try to confuse it! You were a government when in 2017 Europe the CO2 emissions market was reformed, and it was already foreseeable that prices would increase and put the viability of thermal power plants at risk. And they did nothing when two thermal power plants in Galicia caused 40 percent of the greenhouse gases. They didn't anticipate it and they didn't make a transition plan, as all the autonomous governments did where there are thermal power plants. The anomaly is that Galicia is the only autonomy that has thermals and has not signed a fair transition agreement, the only one! Asturias, Balearics, Euskadi and Aragon all did their duties because they were responsible for their governments. You guys come here to sell smoke and lie with an amazing cynicism. You're a zero on the left as a government. I don't know what the result will give them at the electoral level, how to rule a zero on the left. They have no solution. You didn't come here to say a single solution. What about the combined cycle? Eight hundred and fifty-five megawatts, are they working?, aren't they working? Because until now what they were doing with the combined cycle was filling their pockets by being stopped. Because, besides, the solutions that the People's Party brought here, the proposals were to keep filling Endesa's pockets and not to give the workers a solution. Because paying Endesa for stopping at the station didn't solve the problem to the transporters. That's palliative, that's subsidies, but directly for Endesa's accounts and not for workers. So what we have to do here is very clear, there's a unanimous consensus in all groups: we have to work for a fair transition that doesn't leave anyone behind, of course. But it has to be fair, that nobody is left behind, and it has to be transition. And what you propose is neither transition nor justice, neither of these two things. So stop campaigning with this, be respectful of people and act like a group that's holding a government that has responsibilities and can't always look elsewhere. Your story with Endesa and the electrics...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u264	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u265	...is the story of a party that the only one who sought was the benefit of the company and not of the workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u266	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u267	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Tellado, your messages are always poisoned, always! [[Applause]] You've been ruling this country for eleven years, eleven years!, and you should know the industrial reality of Galicia. Look: in May 2016, the Strategic Plan of Galicia 2015-2020 was approved in this chamber, and they were planning to lower greenhouse gas emissions by thirty-five percent compared to 2005. What measures were they planning to achieve this objective? Because you wouldn't want to tell me that with those thousand or five hundred euros for the removal of old vehicles or the change of windows they wanted to get this emission discount. Isn't that right, Mr. Tellado? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm sure not. Did they see an energy transition to the thermal power plants in Meirama and The Bridges, or did they see that they were in our territory? The Meirama thermal power station and the bridge thermal power station have never been on the political agenda of the Galician Union, chaired by Mr Núñez Feijóo, never! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And today I'm going to remind you again again of what was the Government's contribution to the fair transition to climate change in our country: In 2011, no more access to the Government of Spain, Mariano Rajoy cancelled a pen of seventy-two million euros, seventy-two million euros!, of Plan Miner. By the way, initiatives that the socialists have brought on repeated occasions to this plenary and that you have voted against always, always and always. Seventy-two million fundamental to the economic and social recovery of the districts affected by mining, in Cerceda, in the Bridges and their surroundings. At that moment, the Government of photography, headed by Mr. Núñez Feijóo — with Mariano Rajoy, evidently in Moncloa — was silent. In 2014, a royal decree of aid for infrastructure projects and restoration of degraded areas was adopted because of mining activity, and included actions in sixteen Greek municipalities. And then the Feijóo government didn't even manage to include these sixteen Greek municipalities. As Mariano Rajoy was in Moncloa, Mr. Feijóo was also silent on this occasion. On January 31, 2015, the Natural-Fenosa Gas Council committed an investment of 100 million euros to adapt Meirama's thermal power plant. So President Feijóo and Economic Counsellor went out and photographed themselves there, very gabous them, at a propaganda event in the City of Culture with Salvador Gabarró, who at that time was the president of Naturgy. But four years later, when Naturgy announced the closure in 2020 of the Meirama thermal power plant, affecting one hundred and eighty jobs, where was President Feijóo? Tell me, what did President Feijóo do? I remind you that the Galician and Naturgy Group share shares shares in several companies and therefore have a direct dialogue. And Naturgy has to know that after so many years exploiting a natural resource, which is all, has obligations to the social fabric of Cerceda and its territory. The same is true of the thermal power plant of the Bridges, the largest coal-powered thermoelectric group in Spain. In March, Endesa presents the 2018-2021 Strategic Plan, with a roadmap that included the work of adaptation to the European Union Industrial Emissions Directive; two hundred and seventeen million euros to reduce by 80 percent the emissions of sulphur dioxide and sixty percent the emissions of nitrogen oxide. And a strategic plan that included directions to entrepreneurs to adapt their vehicles. So, the government of photography, you guys, were bringing three auto-bomb initiatives to know what was said from the Government of Greece for this investment. But when things go wrong, then, instead of looking for solutions and getting sidetracked by everyone, you're just looking for culprits, because it's much easier. You know perfectly well that the cause of the closure of the thermal power plant at the bridges is by the rise of carbon dioxide, you know perfectly well that it has increased by 50 percent! The Galician Union has to make it clear to companies that exploit natural resources that are from all the Greeks and all the Greeks that are committed to this territory. And they can't look elsewhere and look for culprits in those places where you don't rule. By the way, have you done any management with Mr. Arias Cañete, who is also his party and which, in addition, has something to say as well? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u268	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u269	In addition, I will tell you one thing — already mentioned, Mr President — that we vote in favour of these initiatives always, when we brought them, when the other groups brought them. And on this occasion, Mr Tellado, we will also vote in favour, even though we are presenting an initiative — as always Mrs Marta — we have tabled an amendment which would substantially improve the wording of what you are drawing up on this initiative. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u270	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u271	I have nothing else to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u272	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u273	The truth is, this initiative was a question: do we support the bridge workers, yes or no? We say yes and you say no. It's that simple. [[Laughter]] [[Protests.]] Mr. Casal, we are concerned about the workers of all companies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u274	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u275	...from Ence, from Reganosa, from the Bridges, from the Electrointensive... you come to this full asking for your dismissal... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u276	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u277	...of many workers because they ask for the closure of many companies. That's what makes us different. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u278	Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u279	Mr. Sánchez, you have paper here in this Chamber: to defend the Government of Pedro Sánchez! Who saw it and who saw it! Don't get upset 'cause the truth is, it's not good for you. Look: Ask us to have a plan in the year 2019 for what has to happen in the year 2045. Don't take our hair off! I confess to you that today my great doubt was to see what opposition we would encounter. Today will the PSdEG-PSOE of the mayor of the Bridges and mayors of the district of Ferrolterra, who stand behind the banner against the Government of Sánchez to cry out against deindustrialization, or will the PSOE of Sánchez and Teresa Ribera be here, that PSOE of what Gonzalo Caballero is the loyal [mascot] who defends everything they do, even if it is against Galicia? [[Expression taken from the Journal of Sessions by the speaker himself.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u280	No, no, no. We're going to withdraw...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u281	That's the question...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u282	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u283	...that we meet the other Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u284	Wait a minute! [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Please, Mr. Tellado, excuse me a moment. Let's remove the expression. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Mr. Tellado, I ask you to remove the expression from "mascota".
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u285	Loyal subjects of the Government of Pedro Sánchez and traitor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u286	The expression "mascota" is removed. Perfect! [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u287	Look, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u288	No, I'm sorry, the expression is removed. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Retreat! He's retired! [[Protests.]] [[Protests.]] The expression is removed! No, no, I voluntarily retired her. [[Protests.]] Yes, yes, yes! [[Protests.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me! No, I asked her and I took her back. [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u289	Don't worry, I'll call the order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u290	Yeah, man! Excuse me! [[Protests.]] [[Protests.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Just a moment, please. A little quiet that the thing is simpler than it seems. [[Murmurs.]] I asked him if he withdrew the expression and he said that he withdrew the expression. If you don't remove it... Sorry! [[Murmurs.]] [[Protests.]] Mrs. White, please, I'm talking! 'Sorry for a moment.' [[Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez speaks words that are not perceived.]] If he didn't voluntarily withdraw it, I'd withdraw it and I'd call him in order. The subject that happened to Mr. Sánchez earlier. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] I know the rules. After four years and I peak here I know the rules. [[Murmurs.]] I took it back voluntarily. I took it back voluntarily! [[Protests.]] He's saying it, please! [[Protests.]] But please, he's saying he voluntarily took her away! [[Protests.]] You can't contradict whoever's in the rostrum! He's saying he took it off voluntarily. [[Murmurs.]] The story is gone! No, no, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The story is gone! The expression has been removed, Mr. Knight, it has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u291	Well, I called in order by Mrs. Noela Blanco...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u292	No, no, I can only call you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u293	I want to read your own amendment, that of the Socialist Party. Do you know what they're asking? Presentation of a closing plan for each power plant. It's just that we want them to reopen, we want them to reopen and maintain jobs.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u294	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u295	You're talking about industrial conversions, palliative care, and we're talking about jobs, job maintenance. That's what makes us different. Two hours ago, the parliamentary groups of this chamber met together with the Navantia Ferrol Business Committee to talk about the lack of workload and the demand for the construction of an AOR that gave work. You know who wasn't? The Socialist Party. And why? [[Murmurs.]] Because they're against it, because they're always on Pedro Sánchez's side. That's the worship of PSdEG-PSOE, which has no limits. You guys have become...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u296	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u297	...on the palms of all the troubles and scorn that the Government of Pedro Sánchez has with Galicia. That the Government of Sánchez deny Galicia seven hundred million euros? You applaud. May the Government of Sánchez deny you the approval of the Statute of the Intensive Industry? You, Mr. Knight, applaud. May the Government delay the arrival of high speed in Galicia? You applaud. Does the Government want to shut down the thermal power stations and send fifty families to jail? You applaud. So much aggravation to Galicia, we believe it hides the low confidence that Pedro Sánchez has in the electoral possibilities of Gonzalo Caballero. So while he betrays the Government of Spain to Galicia to benefit other communities, Mr. Caballero applauds. Galicia, of course, does not deserve this Socialist Party that betrays Galicia and betrays the workers of the Bridges.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u298	On the amendments, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u299	On the amendments, I think it became meridionally clear that here are groups that want to close the thermal power plant, and we want it to be a fair and orderly transition, and that Galicia remains green but also competitive. So what we want is the same future as the thermal power stations across Europe will have. No one will close in 2020, but they will continue to work, adapting to the requirements of the European Union. You're an intransigent Taliban and the employment of the bridge workers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u300	Don't you accept the amendments?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u301	...and from all over the county, they've got a curse on them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u302	You don't accept...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u303	And in the meantime, Mr. Knight...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u304	You don't accept the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u305	...applause. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u306	Thank you. We're going to vote on these non-law proposals. We'll close the doors, please. We're going to vote quietly, that's important. Let's all go easy. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please. We are going to vote, which is the most important vote; it is the most important act a Member has: voting. Well, let's get started. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u307	We voted for a non-law proposal from the Galician Parliamentary Group of Socialists on measures in relation to the damage caused by the barbarian. No amendments were tabled. We vote. Vote of the Non-Law Proposition, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the measures in relation to the damage caused by the barbarian. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u308	But... No, no, sorry. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But there is a delegation of vote. [[Applause]] The total sum, I think, was sixty-nine. There are thirty and I have to give you two more votes, thirty-two, because there is a delegation of votes. And thirty-nine, who voted against. No, of course. I think we said well. Yeah, I think so, that's right. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, a calculation error. Good. We said right, didn't we? [[Murmurs.]] We said the numbers well. Okay, perfect. We shall then vote again now, but the second is that of the Group of the Left's Joint Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Ms. Ángeles Cuña. Amendments to the Joint Left Group and to the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group are accepted. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Joint Left Group, at the initiative of Da María de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda and Da Luca Chao Pérez, on the actions to be carried out by the German Government in connection with the implementation of new titles on university campuses. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u309	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr. Jose Luís Bará. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the position of the Galician Parliament regarding the agreement of the Madrid Assembly calling for the illegalization of certain political parties. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u310	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Raquel Rodríguez Arias. Amendments to the Joint Parliamentary Group and to the Socialist Parliamentary Group are not accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Raquel Arias Rodríguez and nine other Members, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in order to simplify the process of return of Spain and its families.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u311	Let us repeat the vote. Let's repeat it. A vote must be recorded on how it was done. I'm sorry. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, but for the minutes. I have to read the vote. No, no, I know that. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Please don't complicate my life with that. [[Murmurs.]] We're going to vote for what's to be voted on, which is again this one, which I've already read, but we have to vote for it again. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Raquel Arias Rodríguez and nine other Members, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in order to simplify the process of return of Spain and its families. The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 43; votes against, 9; abstentions, 19. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u312	Let's keep going. We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Matilde Rodríguez Rumbo. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yeah, right. Sorry again. So, we voted the fifth, that of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, on the initiative of Mr. Jose Luís Bará. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is accepted, but it is accepted as an amendment to addendum. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the shipyard Barreras and the naval sector of the Vigo River. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u313	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Matilde Rodríguez Rumbo. The amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego is accepted. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo and D. José Manuel Pérez Seco, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the low level of budgetary execution presented by the Galego Institute of Economic Promotion in the years 2016, 2017 and 2018, as well as the achievement of its objectives. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u314	We now vote for the Joint Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Luís Villares. The amendment of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group was accepted. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Mixto, at the initiative of Mr. Luís Villares Naveira and Mr. Francisco Casal Vidal, on the creation by the Galego Institute of Economic Promotion of a liquidity programme for the advance of unpaid wage workers when the company is declared insolvent or in the contest of creditors. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u315	Finally, we voted for the People's Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Miguel Ángel Tellado. Amendments to the parliamentary groups that presented them were not accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira and eight other Members, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Galicia to require the Government of Spain to convene the urgent call of the Bureau of the Bridges. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 58; votes against, 13. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u316	And there are no more votes. We suspended the session until sixteen hours and thirty minutes. Good afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u317	We resumed the meeting on the fifth point, of interpellations. Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela and Mr. Noela Blanco Rodríguez, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Government of Galicia in relation to the situation of primary care of the health system of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u318	Mr. Torrado has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u319	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor. We're in this whole family, but we're "good avenues," which is usually said. What we are considering today, Counselor, is an interpellation because we are concerned about the situation of primary care. This isn't new. This is a debate that we have had for some time in this Parliament, outside this Parliament and in other scenarios, and, of course, we have only put a lot more space to contribute to the debate. We believe that we need to talk about the situation of primary care. There is a scene of primary care in Galicia that has to do with, from our point of view, all logic, with which we are in the result of a number of years of continued government, almost eleven government continued in health management. By putting some data on the table, eleven years ago -- let's put that limit, because it's a limit that we feel good about, although you usually don't like it in the debate -- the budgets were for primary care -- in 2009 -- 180 million euros more than they're doing this year, and that year there was something more than 1,100 professionals in primary care than those that are marked in the budgets of the Galician Union by 2020. They're official data in both cases and we're therefore going to trust that budgets count on the data they say. So with something more than 1,100 professionals less and less than 180 million euros a year—180 million euros a year, which, cumulatively, are something more than 2,000 in that case—we are talking about a situation that is impossible to improve. And besides, what's natural is that with that loss of personnel and investment, it's worse. We have, in addition, some problem added by the differential fact. The differential fact of Galicia, for example, is that we are talking about staff problems today. In terms of optional family and community medicine professionals, today in Galicia we could have trained 150 more family and community medicine professionals, or some who have just graduated now, who were not trained here in Galicia because this government did not ask for all the squares it could ask for. I had the possibility of asking for MIR training squares, but I never summoned the total. You know they have a government of the state you are now always looking for responsibility. We ask him to call in Galicia all the MIR squares they can, and we insist because they never did. So it's hard now to hear many times when they say the fault is that we don't have and that they don't allow us. I don't know why they want to ask for more if they didn't call all the ones they had, which is already surprising; just like they want to hang them on a sign, but they didn't call them all. It's 150 professionals that we don't have because the Government of the Union has decided not to summon them, and that's what the cost, actually, is, I don't say symbolic, but it's much lower than the system. So today we have a primary health care system that has some delays in dating that I didn't have before. Any health center is full of people who can claim perfectly -- and that's for sure we all know it -- who now ask for an appointment for primary care and have four, six, seven or ten days of waiting, something that never happened before. We're at the upper bounds, and the average is even higher than on other occasions. But we're faced with situations that didn't happen before, and we have a lot of professionals who have agendas of 50 and even 60 patients a day, which doesn't fit the needs of the system at all. This is the primary care we have. You were trying to solve it like you do some things: when you don't want something to be solved, you create a committee. You've applied the rule well, and you haven't created a committee, you've created two, and one of them with 177 working groups, or 20, or 19 or 23, working groups that have already gone down people because they say they don't solve anything. And they set up a committee of experts or wise men -- I don't know what name they used -- to do a system analysis. That analysis of the system that they have done to you, which is what we've been thinking here today, is titled: For a primary vertebrate care of the health system -- it's not the subject of the debate, but it was interesting that it was in Greek, someone could translate it, nothing happened -- They created this document that was delivered to the Council and is known. That document they created was directed by some experts that you chose -- some of them we've already told them that it seemed very good to us, because some of them were Health Counsellors in the Basque Country, with the Socialist Government; therefore, it's okay, you start to agree when they start asking for advice from those who were ruling with the Socialist Party -- He included some experts, from the point of view of the Council, who chose some people who work in the system. We're not going to get into the method of choosing the people who are participating; they've probably brought a lot of things. And what this document or this work they've done for a while is to do a system analysis. One might think, since we have a regular debate on what we have analyzed from the system, what the Government defends from the system and what the People's Party defends from the system -- often dichotomous that debate, it seems that we analyze different systems -- what analyses do and how can experts, supposedly independent, be positioned, who even chooses the Government? I'm going to read you a few excerpts from the document that the experts you've chosen. I'm telling you, 'cause maybe something's up to us. I'm going to read it in Spanish, I know that I could translate it instantly, but it's to point out that it's done in Spanish, and it's a little ugly: "I miss the service bosses and local equipment to adjust the offer to the reality of each health center. Lack of nurse management of demand. Indefinition of the nurse's service portfolio." Remember that we defended here -- your party in Madrid has already been against and here too -- expanding the training of nurses and nurses, which you disagreed with. Too much bureaucracy. I love this one. Listen to this one, which is very important: "Importing waiting lists in primary care." You were telling me now that you didn't. Important waiting lists. Do you remember this thing that we always defend from primary saturations? I'm going to read, it's very curious, maybe they were wrong to write, "Reverse too much consultations in primary care." Excess consultations? "Importing waiting lists, excess consultations..." It's fascinating, they must have been wrong, I'm sure they were analyzing another system and it wasn't the Greek, that this in Galicia doesn't happen. On the surveys, complaints and protests, in positive terms, that users do, that we say we never attend them and you defend that yes, look at what curiosity: "The main problem perceived is that all this has little effect on real changes." Go! Go! The patient as the axis of the system, which you usually defend. "The patient as an active subject has not appeared in any of them." It's one of the measures on primary care. "Clinical sessions and coordination work among professionals are not stimulated. The governance model is not able to effectively integrate." He says I can move forward... advance, advance, perfect! [[Murmurs.]] Thank you very much. I return to the following paragraph: "Lack of autonomy in primary care". Do you want the next paragraph? "Defied centralizing attitude of the agencies." I can move forward further if you want: the goals marked by health areas are not realistic. On the heads of services, I'm making more progress. Their management capacity is weak; limitations on the leadership of service leaders and coordinators. I can move on. Look, I love this, this is the next paragraph, if I'm asked to move forward: "Disconnection between planning and reality." Maybe he didn't like me moving that far. [[Applause]] You want the next one? The following, nothing happens: "Scattered support for teaching and research." If I can continue... shall we continue? This is fantastic, they talk about the planning of doctors and nurses, and this is important about doctors: in the next ten years half of doctors have retired and you know now — remember that we often debate that you plan late, you know now, they are very smart — that the generation of residents is absolutely insufficient. You left without asking for 150 family medicine squares, fantastic! Next is wonderful, nurses. There's no data on nurses, they could be worse than doctors. You do a working group and you don't even give him the data. We thought it was just for the opposition, but I see it's common. Anyway, I might go on, I don't have much time, but I think you have the document and you know it. Our approach is a simple assessment: this is a slap on your health policy. So we believe that the Government should reflect on that even the experts that the Government itself hires to do an analysis tell you that this is a disaster of management. According to this assessment that we are here, what we are proposing is this: do you -- not personally, but as a responsible person -- don't you think this is what you're telling them is that your health policy has not been for anything effective? And second question: what are you going to do with this document? We don't know how much it cost -- it would be good to know -- and we don't really know what their real goal was, but will they use it, or will they keep it in a drawer? Because with that diagnosis you should assume that the document is wrong, because that's nothing you've defended so far. But since even members of this system that you have chosen tell them this is so, what are they going to do now that even the people you choose give them the reason and when they tell them, please change the primary care model? Now what are you gonna do with this? That's our plan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u320	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u321	Mr. Torado, I am no longer surprised; nothing surprises me at all. But, look, it's funny that you disqualify a group of experts who have not been appointed by the Council, disqualify them; dequalify a document because you read it in Spanish -- you're also in Greek -- you can read it perfectly... yes, yes, perfectly -- and disqualify a group of experts. [[Interruptions.]] The moderator of this group of experts was the Health Counsellor of the Socialist Party in the Basque Country. [[Murmurs.]] I mean, they disqualify everything at all. If I said the document that everything is perfect, that everything is phenomenal, I'd say it was bought, that all this... No, look, absolute freedom to analyze. But you stayed with the first part, which is the analysis. Next comes the proposal for measures and then the implementation of measures. We've got luggage, we've done a lot already, and it's a pity you hadn't gotten to that part, but I'm gonna get there. Look, the Health Council is aware of the need to move towards another primary health care. Why? Because the population changes, the current population is different from the population of fifteen or twenty years ago. The primary system is a successful system that has been successful since its inception, but obviously, like everything else, and more in health, it needs evolution. And we're looking for independent people designated by scientific society, medical schools and nursing schools, so they can say that diagnosis and then propose treatment, and from there we go in. Obviously, we think we have a very good health, but we can't stay where we are. It's good -- I think -- to do a critical analysis. Regarding the situation of shortage of professionals, which always says so, we have been extending retirement age since 2016. That's why we managed to keep over 200 doctors working with us. We request more accreditations for the training of family medicine and pediatrics. And here I've told you the times I've had to speak to the minister, the former minister of his government, so that we'll finally get seven more squares for this MIR that was done this last weekend. And it took us a year and a while to get that from the Ministry. During 2019 we launched different strategies aimed at improving primary care. By the way, we must emphasize that we are pioneers within the National Health System. I remind you that the previous minister, with her team of the Socialist Party, started the work, copying the model that we set up here, and took them to expert groups. I want to remind you that, before finishing the final part, the diagnosis, and putting measures on the table, the moderators resigned. Those two moderators, prestigious people at the national level, were elected by the minister's team and resigned. Why? Obviously, because they could not work freely, as if the experts who came to Galicia could work freely. See, the first of these strategies was the development of the Primary Care Plan 2019-2021. It was adopted in May by the Board of Trustees. It's a plan developed between administrations, professionals and citizenship. It is a plan that has a specific budget of over 102 million euros in three years and includes the creation of 331 new squares in primary care categories. You're talking about the budget, the budget of the last year of the Bipartite. By the way, a budget that was false, because then there were two billion left that we had to pay for in the years ahead. But besides, it tells what is spending on pharmacy, pharmacy and recipes, which we don't count on, because pharmacy and recipes can't be considered as primary care, because it's primary, and it's also hospital. So we took that off, and we managed with management measures to pay less to pharmacists, with more treatments to patients. From there comes what you say is smaller. But the reality is that this latter budget is the largest in the whole history of Galician health union and, of course, primary care. In addition, this plan has an independent budget, a consolidated budget for the creation of squares, as I said. It is a plan that establishes a series of short, medium and long-term measures that creates a technical council of primary care, already full functioning, involving scientific societies, professional schools, trade union organizations, patient associations and municipalities. On 20 March 2019 we signed an agreement with representatives of the Galego Medical Council of Primary Care Scientific Societies and the Galego Health Service, in which the commitment to establish a technical committee of experts, as well as an advisory council of primary care, will participate in professional colleges and scientific societies. Its objective is to address the development of primary care strategies over the next few years and to lead its development, and the functions will be related to scientific, professional and social aspects. I know you don't like that there's more than one committee and that experts don't have to advise the government, that it must be the government from an office what planning does, which is the strategy. No, we believe that professionals have to lead this aspect. So, and with a character of absolute complementarity, we bring together the group of experts who prepare the report For primary vertebrate health care of the health system - text in English, text in Spanish -. The components of the expert group were proposed by scientific societies and medical schools. The documents resulting from both working groups are essentially coincidental. The diagnosis of the situation is exactly what was done in the present working groups in the primary care plan of the city of Galicia 2019-2021. Both documents are based on the quadruple goal: improving population health, improving patient quality and experience, improving efficiency and improving professional satisfaction. A number of European countries are also following this quadruple goal strategy. The priority actions to be developed in both are similar: organizational reformulation with a specific primary care direction, establishing mechanisms to improve the relationship between primary and hospital care, enhancing community orientation of new care and gradually expanding the portfolio of services of primary care professionals and the allocation of new roles, promoting teaching, research and strengthening patient participation in decision-making. On 20 March 2019 representatives of the Galego Board of Medical Colleges and primary-care scientific societies signed an agreement on the development of different points of the plan, the establishment of a primary-care technical committee and the Primary Care Advisory Council. In short, matching strategic formulation. As you know, the July 8, 2019 Order creates and regulates the composition, functioning and organization of the Technical Council for Primary Care. Fruit of this council, sectoral commissions have been created. This technical committee of experts is made up of professionals who know the health system well, involved and committed, who undoubtedly have a view of primary care as a vertebrate axis of our health system. At the Galego Health Service we have already launched an initial plan to implement the report of experts cited. So, through a resolution last December, the members of the management team of the plan and the independent follow-up commission are already appointed. The working group has already held its first meeting on January 23rd - a few days ago - to define short-term goals and to produce results within six months. The Independent Follow-up Commission is composed of prestigious professionals in primary care in Galicia, and its mission is to evaluate achievements and propose the required adjustments. In addition, in the first half of this year, it is planned to create a health centre forum with the objective of sharing experiences, innovations, local health plans and indicators of quality, efficiency and health outcomes on a regular basis. The initial implementation plan also collects for this first half two training programmes to be developed by the Health Knowledge Agency (Acis), a leader training program and an agenda management program directed to primary care heads, at the request of members of these groups. Ladies and gentlemen, we agree on many points with the approach presented by this group of experts, and we are committed to carrying out most of the actions recommended in it. The primary care plan 2019-2021 was implemented in early 2019, through the most participatory process than we have knowledge in primary care. Professionals in all categories that work in the health centers of our autonomous community have proposed measures of improved care that are collected in it. The work of 123 professionals, in groups of 10 or 12 people, at 21 meetings and with more than 150 hours of work, made it possible for them to expand 525 proposals for improvement. In addition, professionals have been involved since health centres. It was a participatory and transparent process and, of course, of what we are very proud of, because they are building on the new primary care of the 21st century. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u322	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u323	Thank you, President. Counsellor, I think we should dignify the debate a little bit, make it honest; that is, discrepancy is absolutely legitimate, but we cannot participate in a debate in which we do not recognize the other one's defense. Come here to say that I'm disqualifying professionals, not at the level of calling anybody "mascota" with the permission of the presidency, which has been done here today. But, in any case, saying that we disqualify... but if we don't agree...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u324	That was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u325	No, he was removed from a spokesperson from the People's Party, but the first one who used the word "mascota" was the president, what happens is that, when the president speaks, you do behave like subjects.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u326	Sorry, not in the same sense. Read you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u327	Yeah, yeah, yeah... Don't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u328	No, don't confuse, that's me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u329	No, no, you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u330	No, don't confuse, don't confuse.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u331	If you'll allow me to talk. Thank you very much. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm not a doctor, Counselor, but see if you can find anything against acidity, that there's a very big problem of acidity here. [[Applause]] Anyway, we don't disqualify professionals; it's more, you did a defense -- and it looks good to us -- to independent professionals. There's a concel of the People's Party among them, but it's fine, it's fine, because they're professionals in the system. In fact, we share a lot of things -- something we disagree on, something, obviously, one cannot share everything completely, but, look, we would sign this whole, whole, as a joint agreement from all over the world for the next ten years, as it is. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela shows the report you're talking about.]] What's the matter? That you come to tell me: you disqualify professionals. You're lying! Besides, you come here and say, we're already doing a lot of the things that are here. But if the document is November and today is January 29th! You say: after that document we've done a lot of things. But, Counselor, if so many of the things that are here, we'll... say that I'm talking about the analysis. The proposals for action are for those who can act, we're not in management yet. But they'll allow me not to make management decisions yet; we make proposals. But, look, you're talking to me about some things. I'll tell you about the proposals they make here. Look: To dignify in working conditions and access the performance performed by professionals from the primary level of care. Do you know what's going on with this? To dignify working conditions. Every time we say something about this here, you say we're attacking the system. But, look, it's a maximum of 30 patients a day for primary care professionals, proposed in this Parliament; it's rejected. Catalogue of expanded diagnostic tests or evaluation of enlargement for optional professionals; they voted against. The creation of new inter-internity squares, with commitment to stabilization in the next OPEs; they voted against - and here I have a tide of initiatives -. Recruitment of primary care personnel; they voted against. Ensure professional coverage in terms of employment; they voted against. Alternative replacement in health centres; they voted against. Professional recruitment plan; they voted against - and I am only recovering those of the Socialist Party -. Physical therapy facilities; they voted against—logo said they were going to do them, but they never knew about them again. I design measures to improve primary care, evaluating with professionals; they voted against -- they do this and now they're not going to listen to them, but if there is -- Primary care recruitment plan and professional stabilization; they voted against. Steady recruitment commitment to the people who have occupied 80% of the time in the last three years, a place with possible contracts - that is stabilization - and voted against. Enlargement of the possibility of requesting diagnostic evidence; they voted against it. OPE with 400 new squares; they voted against. It offers the MIR holders of interim contracts; they voted against it. I've got a bearing on them. But if you voted against all this! And I'm going to read more about urgent measures: urgently correct the impact of the current "blocking dam" on the organization of clinical activity -- especially in clinical activity -- saturation. If you say it doesn't exist and here they're saying yes! How did they take action? Did they take action against something that continues to defend that there is no? That would be a stratospheric thing. Look, starting with places in worse condition. There are different causes that conflict in an overdemand that is preventing quality care. When we say this, you say that we're attacking the health system, that we're destising, that we're attacking professionals. If that's it, literally, I'd say it's literally what we've said many times here and what the collectives say, what users say, what professionals say. How are we disparaging the professionals who wrote it? If we agree with them! If we all agree here, all except the government, save the government! It's just that you voted against all this. They make a thousand proposals and say they're already making them. And you know what professionals tell you about your workgroups? They're not participating anymore, because they're told that we don't have to do a work group for the tenth time to know what to do. What we have to do is do it. You have a document, you took care of it, you decided who hired it, they did an analysis, they say they assume it, but they say it's already done. If it's done, why did they order it? He's only a few months old! And I'm in urgent action, in the first two. See, another: reformulate the health care organization chart to raise primary care to its highest executive level. You know what this is? This is the primary care agency, that's what they're asking you to do. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela raises and points out the report already mentioned.]] You know what happened to the primary care department? That you took her out. But how are you telling me that you agree with this? This is a blow to your health policy. Now they don't know what to do with it. And they'll put it in a drawer, it'll last a few months, because it'll probably be very useful for the next government, but from here on out there, at least if they're not going to do anything, I'm going to make a request: they don't touch anything else, they don't break anything else, like that one says, "virginite," that stays like I am.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u332	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. For the closure of the inquiry, the Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u333	We should not use the same language. It's funny because I spend the first part of the intervention talking about what the Italian Plan is, which is earlier to the document, and it turns out it says, but if the document is November, how are things done? Because they come from the French Plan 2019-2021. What's going on is that you have to listen, not just listen to yourself. I know he talks fast and he talks fast, but it's not just talking, it's knowing what he's talking about. That's the problem. The problem is that when a government is serious, responsible and calls people according to the professionals to establish protocols and documents... by the way, a health adviser from Spain spoke of primary care as a vertebrate element of the system the other day. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We like it, we start being as always, we go ahead of the others. And, look, the groups keep working and producing results. The moderators blew up the group, who were hired by the Ministry. So we have, of course, much more interest in listening to professionals and making a plan; a plan that has 7 strategic lines with 52 goals and 200 actions, of which 80 were established in the short term. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm going to talk about strategic line 1, which is the provision of human resources of primary care — fundamental —. Because we just created 331 squares, squares of different professional categories, because the most important thing about primary care is to train teams, medical teams, nurses, social workers, pharmacists, physiotherapists, administrators... that's a team, the primary care team. There are 45 new squares created in 2019; this year, 102 squares. And, in addition, as I said before, the biggest call for the number of family doctors in training is this weekend call. [[Murmurs.]] They're 129 family doctors' squares, after the Ministry had paralyzed accreditations for many years. And also -- as I said before -- 27 pediatricians. Therefore, for us, the part of staff recruitment is fundamental, as I say, with measures, with annual OP. We are the only autonomous community that has convened OP every year. And there's an element that's been requested for a long time, but they probably don't understand the concept: replenishment rate. We have to get rid of it. Galicia has 108% because it has met the deficit data, but we need to get back what we couldn't cover. [[Murmurs.]] Today neither the former government of Sánchez nor the current government of Sánchez understands this. Of course, the first request the Minister of Health has is to eliminate the replenishment rate. Which does not directly depend on your ministry? All right, but it's in a government that will have to make the changes so that what is the health service of all autonomous communities can hire and stabilize more people. We continue — as I say — working with public job offers. We have several oppositions this weekend. And in the first quarter we will also draw up the next public job offer. As I say, one more year, the board goes ahead. And also strategic line number 7 -- important -- specific needs plan. It's 33 million euros in this plan for works, equipment, reforms, also for information technology. And we're already getting to all Galician health centers new equipment to make it more effective, another of the requests they've made to us. We also created the Primary Care Directorate. Look, I was a hospital manager when there was a primary care manager, and I can assure you that, of course, the relationship between primary and hospital manager wasn't too good. They were two different worlds. Now they're integrated, there's a health manager, and there's hospital directors and primary directors created by this regulation that we're pushing. And besides, there's a sub-direction of primary care within the central services to coordinate precisely all this. From that point on, we have followed the sectoral committees, 14 sectoral committees from all sides. I don't know if there's a concierge from the People's Party. As you said, there was a councilman from the Basque Country of the Socialist Party. And, of course, I know that there are, I don't say concels, I say people who will be presented in the next elections on lists that are not of the People's Party and that are in the sectoral commissions. So, it's not a political problem, it's a professional problem, and that we, of course, created. With the establishment of the Technical Committee of Experts, we have fulfilled our commitment to the representatives of the Galician Medical Council and the scientific societies, and they have signed that document, they consider it to be a valid document. Logically, what we are doing right now is taking what is in that document; a document that will be referenced at the national level of primary care — Galicia, of course, is the pioneer; it is leading to reality. And, of course, we're going to comply with Plan 2019-2021. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u334	Thank you, Counselor. Da Eva Solla Fernández's interview with G.P. Common Left, on public health
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u335	You have the floor to Mrs. Solla Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u336	Thank you, President. In fact, the title they gave him is quite scrutinised, but the counselor has written down the issues relating to health in rural areas, to the comarcas hospitals. Of course, what I'm going to refer to most of all is that unfortunate closure of the neighborhood of Verín. And a previous question. It is understandable to hear it, Mr Almuña, asking for the abolition of the restoration rates; it is understandable after all the times you voted against eliminating those restoration rates in the Health Committee of this Parliament and also in this House; proposals we have made for all the opposition groups. But, well, at last, it's what's got the paper, which absolutely supports it, Mr. Almuño. [[Applause]] Look, today we've brought up a very important issue, which is the fairness of the public health system, an element that is at risk, of course, since the personnel cuts in public health began. We probably already needed to improve — if necessary — in many ways in order to improve this equity in access to health services. Unfortunately, after the elimination of all the squares that have been amortizing in recent years — and, of course, nobody forced him to amortize squares in recent years, those forced retirements that we have so much discussed in the previous legislation, you were still not here — from the suppression of many professionals, the situation is much worse and has affected the places where there were the most difficulties: primary care and hospital care of rural villages most distant in the county hospitals, but also in many rural parishes of many more or less urban or rural municipalities in our country suffer unfortunately this problem. So today we came to bring this question here — I say — this unfortunate closure of the parish priest at the Verín Hospital. The truth is, you don't stop surpriseing us, and when we think they can't make it worse, they go and they know. So, after trying to take a step back in an absolutely firing measure that violated women's rights, of course, but against the fundamental rights of children and their rights to equity, too, in access to the public health system, not only did they not apologize—well, they could get wrong and change their mind—but every time they tried to move away they would somehow get worse. It's like when a ladder falls down and, instead of grasping and stopping, it accelerates, runs and gets burned. You've been insulting professionals for a month and a half, speaking of lack of expertise; later, getting involved with the families — mostly mothers, but families — saying that responsibility is theirs, moving and hiding behind both the families and the professionals, and now the one you've never seen, when you decide to march backwards — and, of course, you have to congratulate those 20,000 people who went out on the street, those parents, those mothers, those families, those health professionals who defended equality with nails and teeth in the health system and the welfare service at the Verín Hospital — when it seems that you have to take a step back on that balloon — there are autonomous elections and the Ourense People's Party was not very happy—inventing a new element in relation to the informed consent. Of the creators of the "parental pin" comes the informed and strengthened consent. It's something like a parental pin for parents and mothers who want to have their children and daughters, as is their right, in their hospital; an element absolutely out of the current rules, of course, not contemplated within the rules that regulate informed consent. Nor have you yet clarified how that measure is going to be taken because, of course, you do not have - I believe - a subject in the legal system right now, and what you would do would generate a problem, of course, of a comparison with other services; a comparative harm, of course, easily denouncing in hospitals, because I don't know what will be the format you're going to choose from. If you are obliged to give a specific consent to those mothers who are going to give birth as a coercive element—to see if they don't give light there—you would be skipping the fairness and the basic law regulating the autonomy of the patient, which, of course, already regulates—and from which he drinks Galicia's own Health Law—in what circumstances you have to give the informed consent both verbal and written; an element that I believe is settled in the Spanish legal system. So you can't afford to invent a new parental pin for the families of children born in the Verín Hospital. So things, you had to go back in a way that was, of course, announced or more than announced. Our group has on several occasions brought in initiatives warning what would happen when the professional retired, to which you have been able to extend to three times his retirement without seeking any substitute or substitute. And please don't have the temptation to say that there are no pediatricians, because mysteriously when 20,000 people mobilized in the street, there was the possibility of hiring pediatricians to give that service. Please, let's not get frivolous about this. It is a relevant subject, a subject of lack of equity and a situation that is unfortunately taking place in our country in the face of an absolutely hypocritical speech by those who say that you are very concerned or worried — the Government, in this case — about the demographic situation in Galicia. Look, a standard has just entered into the Welsh House in connection with that need for demographic impulse which has no words at all in its articulation to refer to health as a vertebrate element of the population and as a basic right that must be equitable at any point in our country. There are only two articles named above. One is Article 77 of that project that has entered the Chamber, the accessibility of public services, in which you speak that administrations will design their service infrastructures in such a way that all citizens — regardless of their place of residence — have access to basic services of an educational, health, social and justice nature. Welcome! Welcome to constitutional precepts! Because, of course, access to the public health system must already be by fair law and, therefore, this is not only a redundancy, but it lacks any concrete measure. Or Article 104, in relation to home care, which you rely on the employment of the third sector volunteering, but you forget to talk about what's going on with these smoke bombs in relation to home hospitalization. You know, as we're already in precampa, not only today they announced and called for this extension of the Summer Hospital -- because in addition to circuses we have to give bread, and it turns out that for these protests we'll have to see if with this news less people are mobilized -- but precisely this week a motion was approved at the Valdeorras Harbour Council in connection with this need for a new health centre on the Street, on the 1st Saturday, a citizen mobilization is called up asking for that infrastructure, and you were only given the idea of picking up and announcing that they were going to extend the hospital service to home; an authentic fallacy, because you've already announced that this service was offered to the whole territory, when, obviously, it's not enough time; that service is only provided for the Walldeorras Boat parishes, not for the rest of the most remote municipalities, because of course, the doctor and nurse who worked without that service cannot get to the most health points. And there's a pretty high degree of aging within that health district, as it's known to everyone. So you're inventing a service that you've already announced on two or three occasions without extending the number of professionals, unless you're here today telling me that two or three doctors and nurses will be able to perform that service. If not, of course, it happens like what happens at the Verín Hospital, or at Monforte. And in Verín it is quite obvious what happens. You removed the palliative service and moved the internal medicine to another internal medicine service. And of course, what it has to do with home care, because only within a 15-minute period, in an isochronous 15-minute period, because everything that's further from that hospital is unable to attend because there's not enough staff. This situation we have is the concern that the Galician Union has, despite news reports that Galicia has lost 12% of the rural population in the last decade. What are we talking about? In fact, for this executive everything that is services that have a reduced frequency, such as primary care for rural municipalities and rural parishes, because there's a decline in population, it's a expense, and this is what we're seeing throughout the legislation. I do not know whether you pay attention or not — I do not know if you have time — to the debates we have in Parliament's Committee on Health, because we are still having deficiencies in primary care in all the municipalities, mainly in Lugo and Ourense — but also in other parishes in the rural areas of the provinces of Coruña and Pontevedra, which also have and are not few — and unfortunately there is no attention to this element. Then I'll continue. You have the questions in writing. But they worry enough that you don't have a plan and that that balloon probes in which it seems that, fortunately, if you're going to march behind the closure of the neighborhood in Verín, it's not the first one to cut more cuts in rural health.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u337	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u338	Well, actually, I'll take advantage of it, Your Honor, because now you can have some influence on the Ministry of Labour, to see if we can eliminate the replacement rate among all of you, and that's how we would all agree. [[Applause]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Look, I want to start by recalling that for this government the public services on which the welfare state is based are a clear priority, as is reflected in the budgets — where it needs to be reflected — and, more specifically, in health care, where we invest more than 40% of the board budget of Galicia; the largest budget — as I say — of the history of the board of Galicia in health, and with a real budget. Public health has advanced enormously in the last decade. The Galician Health Service has more than 38,000 workers, 1,544 professionals more than ten years ago. We have more and better infrastructure, more advanced technology. We are pioneers in the use of new information technologies to facilitate the work and participation of professionals, patients and citizens. We managed to improve our quality with more activity and better results. We perform more prevention activities and programs, and we treat the most serious patients in less time. At the same time, patients and citizens have greater guarantees and more decision-making capacity. As far as the Paritory of the Hospital de Verín is concerned, we have made a difficult decision, but it is a responsible decision, taken with criteria of care quality and safety for children and their mothers; of course, without any electoral interest, that other trainings have clearly. It was a difficult decision but we don't evade responsibilities and we're always willing to explain why we're making decisions. We'll do it every time it's necessary. As we indicated, this was a decision based on the criteria of gynecologists, obstetricians and pediatricians of the reference hospital. As you know, we are suffering from a shortage of pediatricians at national level; it's not something from Galicia, it's not something from Spain, it's from all over Europe. We repeatedly try to get professional pediatricians to continue attending births in Verín. Interestingly, it was the left-wing government of the Bipartite that ended with the Pediatric Service at the Verín Hospital. And it's the Government of the People's Party that has repeatedly set up squares to be able to re-create that service: in June, in December and now in January; three times in less than a year. [[Applause]] In addition, we work with hospital services involved in drafting the protocol to resume this attention to the births of Verín, which I can announce since it will be the third day of the next month of February. They're again talking about informed consent. I'm sorry, Mrs. Solla, I don't think you have much information about the informed consent. Informed consent is a process of people's rights. It is a continuous process of information among groups of professionals who care for citizens, which can be oral or written, but where it is recorded is in clinical history. And what this is about is giving patients as much information as possible. I think that against that can't be anyone, can't be absolutely no one. In the circumstances of the last few weeks, and given the spread of widespread information — some of them, of course, with little intention to improve that information to people — of course, what we're talking about is to give as much information as possible; that is, that the neighborhood of Verin, after these two months without activity, will return to its activity. Of course, the Council gives the facilities and above all the security — which is the most important, the security — for delivery under all conditions. I don't know if your lordship wanted to have births in Verín without a pediatrician covering for children who are born. We, as those responsible, can't handle it. The pediatric emergencies — as they also spoke — in many cases in Verín were covered, as in many areas of Galicia, and not so many in Spain, which were through primary care. We have 3 pediatricians of primary care to care for 2,136 children; i.e., approximately 712 children per pediatrician. There are not many places in Spain where so few children are cared for by pediatricians. Therefore, the pediatric emergency was in primary care, in the CAP and in hospital emergencies, both in the Verín Hospital and in the Ourense Hospital. And it will, logically, follow the condition that we now create again, after the Bipartite had finished the Pediatric Service in 2006 at the hospital, that idea. In general, we're talking about increasing staff from 154 to 298 professionals in the last few years. In doctors, we moved from 37 to 39; in health personnel, from 179 to 208; in non-health personnel, from 34 to 49; and the managers — of course — decreased from 4 to 2. There's more activity. For the 26,000 inhabitants of the district, the activity carried out in the hospital exceeds 2,500 episodes of hospitalization, 2,000 surgical interventions, 65,000 consultations and 13,000 emergencies; with global delays that are among the lowest, not from Galicia, but from the entire national health system, and with a level of satisfaction of outstanding citizenship. [[Murmurs.]] We must remember the results from the 2019 waiting lists obtained at the Hospital de Verín. We've published them for a few days, with an average of 30 days' access to the 30 day's and 31 day's call for interventions, with a priority of 0, which corresponds logically to the most serious pathologies. This is the reality: more personal and more activity. As far as infrastructures are concerned, the basic project for the execution of emergency expansion is already being proposed. New emergencies, a new CAP and energy efficiency enhancements. I know it's bad news for you, but we're going to make some new emergencies, because we understand it's very important. We are currently in the period of receipt of tenders, which ends on February 10. From there, you will hire the team that you have to do this project to improve your attention. But we recently executed the works of the new base of 061 at the hospital itself. You notice that you also say that we wanted to close the wall and that, in addition, that's the line. It's not the Council line. In fact, a new UTPR delivery table was bought for the Summer Hospital a few months ago. And, as I say, the number of places for hiring pediatricians was raised, which unfortunately was not possible. Of course, we're going to keep insisting, taking the best conditions not only to the Verín Hospital, but to all the comarcas hospitals. Approaching the services as much as possible to citizenship is of course a fundamental implication. I want to remember that when we changed the Health Act we gave special protection to certain comarcial hospitals that were not in the regulations, and one was the Hospital de Verín. It's district now. [[Murmurs.]] So a hospital in the Health Act, the most important law at the level of the autonomous community, is shielded. We continue to protect and we will continue to improve all services. The lack of staff, as I say, is a problem that exists at both the state and even European level; we are of course taking action to reverse it and we are going to follow that line. There are problems in many autonomous communities, but they take measures like those that Galicia is taking very little. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u339	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply, Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u340	Thank you, President. Well, if the Bipartite was so bad that he eliminated that service when it happened to the public in one of his privatization projects, which were those health foundations, from 2009 to 2019, that you guys pulled the contest, what were you doing? What have you been doing all these years? Vacation! Job break! [[Murmurs.]] Where's the Pediatric Service? [[Murmurs.]] In a decade you didn't care about this Pediatric Service. And, I'm sorry to tell you, but it's a very important cynicism that you say here, even if it's a pickle mode — by the way, no one laughs at all — that we want the delivery service without a pediatrician. It's a very relevant cynicism on your part because, as you know perfectly well, we have on many occasions undertaken in connection with the early retirement of the only pediatrician who attended emergencies, who had to work in primary care and attend emergencies and childbirth. And you gave them the same. [[Murmurs.]] The answer was there was no problem with the service. There are daily sessions of the Health Committees, there are daily sessions!, so less laughter and less cynicism with this topic. Because we're interested in this situation and the cut-off of services in palliatives, in internal medicine, in anesthesia, in this center and in the rest of the time. [[Murmurs.]] A little respect, ladies and gentlemen, a little respect, because the issue of lack of fairness... [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If the debates are passionate, it's because the right to health is a fundamental and basic right, and what is being done here is to deprive citizens of that right because they live in rural areas. And there are no second-rate citizens in this country. Equality within the public health system is a very serious matter. [[Applause]] What we can't do is that when we warn from opposition groups that there will be a problem with this service for months, we say here that it wasn't voluntary and that those who don't want services to exist are opposition groups or myself. [[Applause]] We need to have a minimum of ethics. By the way, we can't use bioethics as if it were a gum. The informed consent, Mr. Almuña, has been legislated since the year 2002 in the state as a whole. Basic legislation, Mr. Almuña, which has been transferred to the rest of the regulations in the autonomous communities, including the Galician Health Act. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no. No, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no. [[Mr. Sanitary Counsellor, Vázquez Almuínha, denies with his head.]] And the cases are perfectly regulated -- well, there are more people who have to go to the academy -- who have to be oral and written. [[Applause]] It's perfectly stipulated. [[Murmurs.]] So, Mr. Almuña, explain to me what the parental pin of the PP, of the neighborhood of Verín, consists of; tell me what the difference is, please — which I may not understand — is between informed and reinforced. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Move us here, please — and, if it's so kind, even in passing writing — what's the difference and how you reinforce an informed consent. [[Murmurs.]] Because the professionals don't know it and, in passing, does us all a favor; I'll take note, the professionals too. [[Murmurs.]] And the Galician citizenship that hears these occurrences will now know what the parental pin of Verín consists of. Look, Mr. Morning, there's a problem with the lack of professionals you've caused yourself. The failure of planning for years leads us to lacks, of course, in many specialties right now. What's going on now is that even in hospitals we don't have pediatrics, because you said you were going to plan how the professionals would distribute, but because they're getting rid of the hospital centers for emergencies, it seems absolutely incredible to us. By the way, primary care remains very relevant. And you know, Mr. Almuña, what exactly does the Medical Council tell you about primary care? Put the batteries on! That's what the Medical Council told him in Galicia literally: put the batteries to look for professionals! Because it's the low quality of the job that makes the few professionals who might be working here, despite the lack of planning, leave. Galicia is the autonomous community that, in the case of doctors and doctors, more purchasing capacity has lost in the last ten years. And by the way, there are psychologists and psychologists, physiotherapists, there are other professional categories that don't have that difficulty, that absence of professionals, and you don't provide them either. That's right, by the way, we keep the cures inside public health. There are serious deficiencies in rural care, and you — and I am finished — should be much more concerned. There is no point in putting on a role, which is the law of demographic impulse, and that there is no single article in the articulated text to ensure that public health in rural areas, Mr. Almuña. I'm done. Explain to me how you shielded yourself, how you shielded yourself, the Hospital de Verín. And tell us, please — that I don't have your wisdom — that it differs "informed" from "enforced." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u341	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Close the interrogation by the Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u342	Mr. President, please don't leave the hall while I'm at this exhibition, because, if not, they'll tell me when I can laugh, not laugh, cry or not cry. It is incredible for a Member to decide what other Members have to do or, in this case, a member of the Government. He called me cynical, who had no ethics and who should do the opposition again. I approved them. [[Murmurs.]] They're not all approved. So that's what we have to study for. I, of course, wouldn't tell a person who pulled out an opposition that should repeat it again. [[Applause]] I think it's a lack of respect for that person and for all those who approve the opposition. [[Murmurs.]] Look, I think I was talking about...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u343	Mrs. Santos, be quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u344	...the Bipartite...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u345	Quiet, quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u346	It's not class. It's approving oppositions or not approving them. There's no more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u347	Mrs. Santos, be quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u348	Let me finish?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u349	Mrs. Santos, come on! [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Santos, call her in order. That's it! Please! It's just that you wanted a call to order. [[Mrs. Santos Queiruga speaks words that are not perceived.]] I'll call her in order. Please, we're already in it, I call it by order! Please, that's it! It's an interpretation, but everybody sees it. [[Murmurs.]] I'm not going to discuss what's obvious. [[Mrs. Santos Queiruga speaks words that are not perceived.]] That's it, I'm not going to discuss what's obvious! Let's finish this in peace! [[Mrs. Santos Queiruga speaks words that are not perceived.]] Look, this is a political confrontation. I heard what was said here, and the counsellor obviously bounces back, what sometimes they also tell him. Right!, this is the political debate. But there everyone who says, you have to know how to listen sometimes. You can't have a glass jaw — I've said it many times — Well, that's it! Quiet, that's it! It's over here. It's over. [[Mrs. Santos Queiruga speaks words that are not perceived.]] I'm not talking to you now. Go ahead, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u350	I, of course, come to expose what we believe, what is being done to improve health care. And I try to bring, of course, data, always data. I know that sometimes they make comments that are outside, but of course I have to answer those things that I also think are not right or that at least we should avoid within the debate. He's talking about amortized squares. No squares have been depreciated at any time. There was a law that prevented -- that replacement rate -- from hiring all the people who retired. That law came through an economic crisis that led us to a left-wing government in Spain. And so it was necessary to take that kind of action because the risk was to be without health care. So they were hard measures for hard times. That moment has passed and that's why we're asking that this replenishment rate be eliminated right now; at least for those professional categories with greater coverage difficulties, such as family doctors and how pediatricians are, but there's some more. In the face of any such consequences, this request that we make — which has been reiterated to the Central Government — I think is logical, reasonable and I believe that we must all defend. So let's keep fighting for it. We, as I say, continue to try to give more services and closer to citizens, with the limitations that at every moment there may be. And, as I say, we always take action and continue to take action. And, of course, we have to be responsible and we have to put the right conditions of safety in order to care for patients. When high-skilled professionals tell us that there are problems with pediatric coverage in a particular area, logically we have to tell the population. And it's obviously not looking for electoral revenue. It's a tough, difficult decision, but that, by responsibility, if you rule, you have to make it. And I think all the people who get to that situation do. As I say, data, large activity data, surgical waiting times, consultation and testing are important data. And special consideration in this case is not only with the Summer Hospital but with other hospitals. We create districts precisely to mark and frame what is needed in each of these moments. And, of course, we are clear and say — as well as in primary care, and I have just said in the previous interpellation — that we believe in teams. We don't talk about doctors or pediatricians, we talk about all the professional categories, which are fundamental. And, therefore, the primary care plan leads to the recruitment — more than 300 squares — of all professionals involved in this attention. That's what we have to do, and we're going to do it with a sense of responsibility. Of course, as far as informed consent is concerned, informed consent is a very important part of attendance, it is the information, as much information as possible, to our patients. That's something that's not done by a given role, but that's explained through the relationship. In this case, we have to make a special impact, because, as I say, after these two months of misinformation by a lot of people, trying to misinformation, logically what's left is to open the parlor on February 3 with all the security and, of course, with all the information the children's parents need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u351	Thank you, Counselor. Da Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and three other members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the policy of the Greek Government in relation to the rights and guarantees of dignity of terminally ill people
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u352	Mrs Vilán has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u353	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Good afternoon, Counselor. As this Friday, Concepción Arenal would be 200 years old. And not only was she a great jurist, a fighter, activist and feminist woman, but, in addition to defending the rights of those people who needed her most when she lived in the 19th century, she created new rights for prisoners and prisoners. And today, aside from the wording of the heading that Mr. President has just read, we're going to talk about a new right, the right to euthanasia, a new civil and social right. There was a time when the legislative power and executive power in Spain were like Arenal Concepción, they were pioneers. Not for a long time, that is not the case — we said yesterday. Here it was criticized that there are only ten countries in the world that regulate euthanasia, in total. These include the Netherlands, Canada, Belgium and Luxembourg. And he mixed with suicide assisted in Switzerland, which is not euthanasia, which are different things. And we were also told that Portugal, for example — that it is now a referent of the People's Parliamentary Group — had no euthanasia and that it had been debated. Portugal, the affection I have for our fellows, and not only for our fellows, but for Portuguese citizens and Portuguese citizens, in civil rights, cannot teach Spain any lesson. And I'll explain, Mrs. Rodríguez, although you're not in the debate. And I'm going to set an example. Since 1966, Portuguese women after divorce had to wait 300 days to get married again — up to six months ago — men, only 180. For that means that in Portugal, for example, that right to divorce was very different for men and women, it was discriminatory. They don't take advantage of us, they don't take advantage of us in civil rights. So it can't be a reference for you to copy. By the way, who changed it in July 2019? The Portuguese Socialist Party, which decided that discrimination between men and women would end. So you look at those countries of which we have to copy, that we have to copy things; in particular, even from Holland in this case. Because euthanasia, the right to euthanasia, which is what we are talking about, is dignity. And we do not say this, that we are a small group, as you say one day yes and the other day, too, of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, of UNESCO's Declaration on Bioethics and Human Rights, of course unanimously, of the year 2005, and even our Constitution of 1978. Dignity is the basis of all fundamental rights of people and of all rights that are not fundamental, too. And this is, in spite of what is said, an ideological debate, because it is a political debate. We're in the Galician Parliament, and politics is ideology, we like it or we don't like it, and it bothers anyone who bothers us. Politics is ideology, and everyone comes here with their ideologies. I talked yesterday about several reasons to defend the regulation of euthanasia and I'm going to repeat a few. We're not talking about palliative care, we're not talking about sick people.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u354	Excuse me, Mrs. Vilan, there's a continuing murmur. If anyone wants to talk, he can go outside. We'll thank him for the rest.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u355	Thank you, President. We're not talking about sick people who are in the hospital, who are going to die and those who apply palliative care, we don't talk about it. We don't even talk about assisted suicide like in Switzerland. We're talking about that I, who have an irreversible prognosis of death, who have severe sufferings that can't relieve me, have the right to decide when I want to die and I want to die well, I want to die well. That's what we're talking about. We don't trivialize, because this is a very serious debate and it doesn't trivialize, no, no. I remember when I was in school. I went to a public school, but, as I am much older, I had religion. In religion there was a teacher—it coincided with the debate of the Abortion Law at that time—who brought us a comic that if trivialized, a comic that was entitled Who killed Juanito? I don't know if anyone was lucky enough to share it. And that comic, which is here, was with cartoons and things like that. And he said, for example, "The 13-week-olds who are aborted will struggle to live after abortion for 2 or 3 hours." He said: "The mother has no right to the body of her child, the child is a different person, she is a distinct human being." And he said other things, comparing, for example, the human species with the strawberry or the dogs — with the bitches in this case. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, that's if it was trivializing something which is also very serious, which is the right that a woman decides when she interrupts her pregnancy voluntarily. They were talking about who killed Juanito? Now they speak of euthanasia as "a murder by compassion." In the same website where you come here you talk about eliminating people and sick people, which is what we had to hear here the other day, and which are expressions that suppose a retreat to the human species. These situations have nothing to do with the laws of palliative care, such as our 2015 law — which we would like, by the way, counsellor, to know how it is being applied, but in writing, through a report that sends us your advice, because he almost has five years of vigilance. We're debating a right to create a personal decision space about my death and good death. That's what we're talking about today. It's a new civil right, or it'll be a new civil right, which fits into the fundamental right to life because it's the end of voluntary life by someone. And, indeed, it needs legal certainty. And here we are, this is legal security: the project — the proposal, not a project — the proposal for organic law regulating euthanasia, which was published in the Official Bulletin of the Congress of Deputies on the 24th of this month. It is the first law to be discussed in this legislation. We will see what the result is in the votes, because the last time the vote was discussed, the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, with Vox, voted against. They agreed on some arguments, you just need to review the debate to figure it out. In many of them even coincided with the one who killed Juanito? They also agreed on some of those arguments. This debate has been on the table of society for decades, for decades, for decades, and for many political parties, it is true. And some of us are late for this debate. I said it the other day, we have to apologize, we all have to apologize because we're here and charge to give society what it asks us. And there's no need to trivialize about it either. You can't tell us that we want a social demand to exist. At the 2011 CIS — I don't want to make a mistake — 78% of citizenship said it was in favour of euthanasia. In 2019, a private entity, Metroscopy, said 87%. By the way, there's an article yesterday in a national newspaper -- what I'm going to talk about -- that says something like this about medical professionals themselves, it's not a survey that's been done between citizenship in general. This right requires professional help and has to come to the public health system, also regulating conscientious objection. That's what this bill says. That's all in here. You were talking about a process, the process for informed consent — procedure, in any case, for informed consent. And here's also a procedure for giving consent. And then I'll talk about it because it's not a joke either, it's not trivializing the right to euthanasia. We believe that the time has come to regulate euthanasia, we sincerely believe it, counsellor, and decriminalize it. By the way, the law has a three-month holiday law, it's not to be implemented immediately, also by the seriousness it assumes, by the seriousness it assumes. You make laws that come into force the next day, all published in the DOG. The next day they come into force, so don't make weird faces. [[Applause]] We need to read the DOG a little more. We believe that yes, and we need legal certainty, ethical guarantees to fulfill people's will and protect their dignity. We need a systematic, balanced, legal standard that guarantees the demand for euthanasia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u356	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u357	You have the six questions of the written interpellation — already finished — and I hope you will answer them all, if you do the favor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u358	Thank you. The health counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuínha, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u359	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I think it's a big mistake what they're doing today. Legislation must respect people's dignity, autonomy and will, as has already been done in Galicia in 2015 when passing Law 5/2015 of 26 June, rights and guarantees of the dignity of terminally ill people. I think you, as a member of the party who also supported her, should draw breast to this law. It's a great law that has been copied by many other autonomous communities. It regulates aspects in which there was a broad legal and ethical consensus, and it has been observed that all healthcare professionals are aware of the limits and possibilities of action that can have in this kind of situation in the lives of people. We were able to conjugate the autonomy of the will of people and the exercise of our professionals within the rights that these also guarantee the Vigilant legislation. The law is based primarily on the principles of patient autonomy and full care for these people, and it collects people's rights to the death process, the duties and rights of the health professionals and health professionals who care for terminally ill people and the guarantees of health institutions and institutions. Today in Galicia, it is guaranteed, through the aforementioned law, the respect for quality care at the end of life and the dignity of terminally ill people, either at home or in a health or social health centre, protecting all the people involved; that is, not only the terminally ill but also their family members or caregivers. The conception of palliative care is changing from a rigid and dichotomous model to a more dynamic and integral model that combines potentially curative treatments with those intended to improve quality of life. Palliative care is the responsibility of the entire health network — primary care, hospital care, palliative care units and home hospitalization — and not only of specific palliative care devices. With the adoption of Law 5/2015, of the rights and guarantees of terminally ill people, it was considered appropriate to adapt the composition of the Galician Committee on Palliative Care, advisory and advisory body on this matter, seeking to be represented and involved within it the health and socio-sanitary agents who have relations not only with terminally ill people and their families, but also with people with advanced and complex disease. The composition of the Galician Committee for Palliative Care was changed, which had the first meeting with this new composition on December 16, 2019. With this new composition, the medical and nursing staff of internal medicine, social work, medical and medical personnel and primary care pharmacists, medical professionals in the field of hospital clinical psychology, medical and nursing staff of palliative care units, physicians of Hado, doctors of oncology, pediatricians, neurology doctors and a representative of the Social Policy Council are included in the commission. The aim of this commission is to promote the right of patients to receive comprehensive palliative care, according to needs and coordinated among different professionals. Currently, all patients in need of palliative care are cared for according to their needs, either with conventional resources of primary care or hospital care. The professionals of the specific palliative care devices focus on patients with palliative care needs considered complex. In our autonomous community there is an extensive network of resources specific to palliative care in all hospitals in the Galician Health Service, which includes both palliative care units and home hospital units. The Council has also advanced in the course of previous instructions, since since 2014 the organization and operation of the registry is regulated through which people can decide on the options regarding the care and treatment of their health given a situation where they cannot express them personally. In view of all this, the German Government has come to the point where regulations allow it to develop, so it is an autonomous pioneering community in gathering progress on the issue of dignity and on the autonomy of will and regulating the right to a worthy death. All these acts are related to good death, dignified death, limitations of therapeutic effort and voluntary rejection of treatment, but not euthanasia or assisted suicide. By the way, in his question, in his interpellation, he says that " euthanasia means good death, which translates into the deliberate act of bringing an end to the life of a person produced by his express will and the object of avoiding suffering." The truth is that your Greek is complex, because good death, which is euthanasia, says the whole sentence changes a lot to the thing. Looks like we're taking over a generic concept that we're all defending. Previously, and in the field of care, the Galego Bioethics Council prepared in 2012 a report on end-of-life care. In this report it has already been collected that seeking the quality of death has become a citizen demand that we must respond to and for which there is an ethical and legal consensus that provides a consistent framework and orientation. For the Galician Health Service, providing all professionals with the support, information and tools needed to assume their role safely and reduce conflict in a painful and complex situation, such as the end of life, constitutes an inescapable obligation with them and a firm commitment to citizenship. So even though sensitivity to people in this situation is maximum, society in general and healthcare systems need to continue to improve continuously. We have a way to go to give adequate answers to the different situations that may present to us. Euthanasia is not acceptable to be the solution to situations that should have other alternatives. It took more than fifty years in the Netherlands to pass its law, still having precedents of jurisprudence. In our country we don't have that tour. In addition, it is necessary to clearly delineate regulated situations. And at the international level there is a consensus that advocates the extension of palliative care, as set out in the Council of Europe's recommendations. Most countries rule out the idea of a right to death. Many philosophers — hence known philosophers — say that a right must be something positive. We have the duty to protect life and to humanize death, to ensure access to the best care whenever needed, and it is essential to document and listen to experts. Kathryn Mannix states that, after thirty years working with terminals, he remains undisputed about the legalization of euthanasia. He maintains that in the world there are a dozen legislations that allow assisted medical suicide, all written with formulas to protect the population. He says we can legally stop a family from telling one of their biggest "you should die," but he also says not to know how to protect older people when they ask for it because his daughter sees her very tired. The deontological code of the Medical College collects it, and its president has repeatedly stated to me on the same January 22nd of this year that his position is in favour of life and not to seek death — textual words. In this sense, he insists that the debate should not only focus on euthanasia but also on the attention to the end of life. I sincerely believe it is a mistake — I said it at first — because it is not a social debate. People say that they feel well treated by teams that care for them when such a situation comes up. And we have, of course, clear regulations that provide security for all, for patients, for their families and for professionals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u360	Thank you, Counselor. Mrs. Vilan's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u361	Thank you, President. Counselor, all this you just told me about the law of 2015 I don't know very well what it was for. I was here when this law was discussed in 2015. It was a bill by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, precisely, and it was not called "dignified death" because you didn't want it to be called "dignified death." Don't lie, don't lie! [[Applause]] Because they're different things, Counselor. Don't confuse, don't try to confuse. You know it well. One thing is the palliative care of this law of 2015... by the way, you review the debate in Congress, because the representative of the People's Parliament Group said in June: "First we need a law of palliative care, and when we have it we'll have to talk about euthanasia." Well, we've had it in Galicia since 2015. Why is it wrong now to talk about euthanasia if we already have what your group says in the Congress of Deputies? Why is that a mistake? An error takes so long to talk about euthanasia, that's a mistake. And all those people who've been suffering for years, decades, waiting for someone to talk about euthanasia sometimes and the rule, that's a mistake. It's a mistake I'd have to make our face fall out of shame. That's a mistake, Counselor. [[Applause]] Ramon Sampedro is already dead, but seeing what face you were going to tell Ramon Sampedro that he was going to receive palliative care. For what, why would I receive palliative care?, to die? To die like? Counselor, we're talking about different things. What Ramon Sampedro received was an assisted suicide, that was what he received; which, by the way, this law, this bill, does not deist. It's going to be a crime, it's going to be a crime or assisted suicide in Spain. The only thing that will change and decriminalize is the right to euthanasia. Don't confuse, don't confuse, Counselor. And you will know about yours, you will know about yours, but there are other people in this House who know about ours. Read the bill and then talk. Read it and then talk, Counselor. By the way, this is so serious, it's so serious, that first of all, it talks about the right to help to die. I think it has nothing to do with palliative care. The help needed to die — in your article 1 — is the object of the law. There are several requirements, there are many, for example, that it is asked twice, that it is collected in writing, that there is an optional doctor who controls it, that this request is consulted with a consultant other than the first doctor. I have the text here, Counselor, I can read — for now — And then he goes to an evaluation and control committee, which can deny it, which can be appealed. Is she guaranteed enough? Yeah, she's pretty much a guarantor. There's conscientious objection. It is regulated in Article 16. And the only exception is the last paragraph of Article 143 of the Criminal Code. Counselor, please, the least I ask you is that we do not miss this, because this is a very serious debate. You come here and you haven't answered any of the six questions we've asked you, either. [[Applause]] He didn't answer either. You just came here to say the same thing as those of Juanito. Who killed Juanito? It's exactly the same speech. He said: euthanasia is not acceptable if there are other alternatives. What are other alternatives? Can you explain to us what "other alternatives" are? For throughout this plenary a representative of his group said: The People's Party of Galicia will never compromise against civil rights. For it is seen, for it is seen, indeed! Yesterday in a national medium there was an inquiry, a survey of the schools of doctors from Biscay, Las Palmas, Madrid and Tarragona came out, and they talked about the majority of doctors in favor of euthanasia — doctors and doctors — when it comes to conscientious objection. And they give their own arguments. And you can't confuse ethics and morals, because this isn't a debate about ethics and morality. That's outside of this House. Some of you would like him to be in here, but he's not because we've been living in a confidant state since 1978. He's out. That's why we took so long to debate euthanasia, that's the sad thing. This isn't palliative care, it's not assisted suicide. It's the right to euthanasia, the right to euthanasia. It's over. It's the right to decide that I want to die and when I want to die because I have suffering. Not trivial, not trivial, counsellor. And I would like, our group would really like you to answer some of the questions, which you read the Congress of Deputies bill—because I think you haven't read it, I think you haven't read it, and you're going to need to read it to see what they're voting for in the motion that we're going to bring. By the way, let's not talk again about the 2015 law, which we know well, which is already in force and which has nothing to do with this interpellation that we do today. But please, with regard to all those people who had to end their lives — not for them but for them — answer the six questions I ask. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u362	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Close the interrogation by the Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u363	Actually, every day is more intolerant in the House. They say what I have to say or don't say. The truth is, it's very curious, it's very curious.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u364	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u365	Yes, but I can speak and say what is ethical or not ethical... can't I say what is ethical? I'll say it again. As hard as he can get, Law 5/2015 is a good law. Why can't I talk about the law? Of course I'm talking about the law, because it's an important law! This law allows Galician society not to have the debate you say. [[Applause]] But, look, the more he talks, the more he convinces me that it's a big historical mistake what they're doing. [[Murmurs.]] According to you, who came to defend euthanasia to this House, says Ramón Sampedro wouldn't be within this law. First he tells me about Ramon Sampedro, so many years suffering and so, but he says he knows — I say you — that in this law that case would not come in. No, no, and what you present here too. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You just said no, you say no. Then it must be clarified. But look, I say there's no social debate...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u366	Mrs Vilan, please, you've been in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u367	In the street, in normal attendance, people say: There was a team behind us. There was at home, in the residence, in the hospital, on all sides, equipment prepared, with training. And there's a committee, like what we create, for palliatives, where all professionals are, who know about matter. With forgiveness, Mrs. Vilán, and it's not a personal matter, but that defends euthanasia a person who is not from the health world makes him say things that indicate he doesn't know how the medical-patient relationship works. The doctor-patient relationship does not work with writing, with authorizations and leading it to commission. It doesn't work that way. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It works with continuous, continuous and daily information. That's how it works. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u368	Quiet, quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u369	As a law, you have a thousand points. The reality is that this is non-compliant, it's non-compliant. And there's going to be a serious problem. He's going to face the professionals. Of course there will be conscientious objection, it would only be missing. But there's one thing that incorporates: the record of conscientious objectors, which never happened. There has never been a register of objects. For something it will be. And then they difuminate what chronic illness is, how invalidating it is. The normal thing is, we're looking for alternatives like they're usually looking for, against pain. Dr. Kevorkian, the ultimate defender of euthanasia, died of a hepatitis C-derived hepatocarcinoma. What should we look for? The cure. How you can now eliminate... yes, yes, you have to follow the evolution of medicine. [[Strong murmurers.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u370	Quiet, quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u371	And there's an alternative, there's a lot of alternatives. And, of course, we have to fight these alternatives and say that the debate in Galicia is clearly covered by that law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u372	Mrs. Vilan, please, you've already spoken. And you have to be able to listen. You may not agree, but you have to be able to listen too.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u373	And, as you say, it was a very important part to pass the law of Greece; therefore, I think it would be good for them to stand out and keep saying so. Even I would accept that if the law had to have a faster evolution, a series of faster measures. We've got better facilities in every hospital. We take palliative units to large hospitals. As I say, home hospitalization and home care from primary care also cover, and we form more professional every day to make the best possible attention. Because what they often need is that attention. And when we hear foundations, such as the Cancer Association, which carry that task in an important way, and tell about the experiences of the children and daughters of those people who die, they tell how they feel relieved by the attention being taken right now under the regulations we have, perfectly. What else is it? The other — he said at first clearly — is that what they want is a headline, saying that it was those who legalized this law in Spain. Well, that's what they want, a headline. We are in favour of treating patients in the most complicated, more difficult situations and, of course, having a good death. Thank you, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u374	Thank you, Counselor. We move on to agenda item 7, from questions to questions to the Government. Question by Mr David Rodríguez Estévez and two other Members of the G.P. Mixed, about the means available to the high mountain municipalities to cope with snowfalls and study solutions and alternatives
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u375	Whenever you like, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u376	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Mr Vice-President, it goes on to say that last week a non-legislative proposal from En Marea was adopted in this Parliament with an amendment to amend the People's Party which said: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to promote coordination and collaboration mechanisms with local authorities and other administrations in order to complete the need for intervention and the provision of material resources that can have the Greek municipalities in the face of weather conditions". One of the fronts of public security is the configuration of the population protection system in all kinds of incidents, whether emergencies, disasters or so on. The Union must try to avoid, reduce or correct the damage that these can cause to people or to property. Many times, with the alibi of its own municipal autonomy, what it does is to transfer the responsibilities to the municipalities, to those who don't provide general strategy or don't give them enough resources to carry them forward. The Territorial Emergency Plan, Platerga, sets snowfalls as one of the natural risks. And this is what we're going to talk about, the mountain councils that we have in Lugo and Ourense province, that on many occasions, by snowfalls, they are completely incommunicado. Together, deputies, central administration and municipalities go hand in hand. An emergency is an emergency, and a neighbor or neighbor needs to solve a problem. The neighbor or neighbor almost doesn't care who owns the road. What we have is, among all of us, to fix the problem. Now I'm going to talk about a specific case, from the municipality of San Juan de Río. The Town Hall of San Juan de Río, through its mayor, from December 16th — when it was the first warning orange by weather of snow on the Oransa mountain and glowing — made a request, a written address to you who had on the matter the request of a distant equipment. In this writing he stated that, in order to consider what the winter season is — last year 2019 and this year 2020 — the municipality of San Juan de Río is a high-mountain municipality — they have an average altitude of 900 metres and some parishes are over 1,000 — and we are talking about having more than 40 kilometres of roads in this situation and not having enough means to remove snow. And then they didn't ask for a machine to leave you, but just a knife to remove you to install in the forest bomber vehicle. The writing has also been sent to the Galaga Emergency Agency, but none of the agencies have responded to your request. In this same case they also asked the Board in November that, while this situation is not fixed, they send means to other municipalities that do not require this kind of material and thus remedy that deficiency. In the county of the poor Trives are totally in the same situation. It's a mountain council that also has access to the ski station. Then the question is very simple. Will you study Galician Union alternative solutions to equip these municipalities with that machine? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u377	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u378	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Mr. Rodríguez. Well, as you understand me that the question does two parts, first a general exposition and then it's true that it speaks of a specific case, of the case of San Juan de Río, because, if I may, I'm going to try the first part to go to general and the second part to focus a little more on the specific case for which I also ask. In fact, you were saying that a proposal has been adopted in Parliament with the votes of this group to continue to provide means, to combat emergencies, and especially against the emergencies arising from winter climate, the municipalities which have little means to themselves in order to do so. How are we not going to vote for something we're already doing? And we've been doing this for a long time, since 2002 with Galicia's First Nega Plan, the Galician Snow Plan. We started supplying material and planning long before it was mandatory. It's not mandatory until 2015, with the National Civil Protection Act. We were already doing it, apart from the winter road planning itself, which makes Galician Union, the competent councillor. Where am I going with this? Well, I think it's a bit unfair to say this, since in the end the obligation we have, of course, is to meet our roads, which there are many in the high mountain, and Galicia's board has to do it. And in planning, without having direct competition in emergencies -- and I don't really like to get into the competition theme -- it's true here those who have the attribution of direct competition, which isn't exactly the Galician Union, also have something to say here. But it's the only administration that's providing means, and the only administration not only in Galicia. I mean, at the level that we're certainly doing, I think that no other autonomous community in all of Spain is providing means against emergencies as it is doing in the Council of Galicia. Apart from that, this is something recognized by municipalities of all political colors, because municipalities of all political colors are receiving material and I think it's perfectly known that it's a general division, because it's a necessary division. And we are delighted to provide — especially all civil protections and municipalities that would not have the chance to acquire this material — with everything that is being given to them. It's 14 million euros since 2015! If you want me to go into more detail, it's almost 700,000 of material specifically prepared to fight against the winter emergencies: salt sprawlers, cucumbers and knives — like what you're talking about in the question. And this has been going on for four years. Besides, this is a material that needs to be renewed and I think we're making a very important effort. So what you say is that, taking advantage of municipal autonomy, we shift responsibility to the municipalities is a little unfair in my opinion. On the contrary, we're helping them, and putting on an important hand. It's true that we're going little and little because it's a lot of requests, but we're paying serious attention. Of course, we're gonna keep doing this.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u379	Thank you, thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u380	And by the way, you guys in the budgets this year had an amendment that said we took $500,000 from the acquisition of emergency equipment to do other things.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u381	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u382	Five hundred thousand euros, much more than we're destined for this year only to the winter emergencies of Ourense province.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u383	Thank you, your time is up. Mr. Rodríguez's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u384	Yes, thank you, President. Well, I'm going to fix it in what was your own amendment. I didn't mean for them to continue to be gifted, because we wouldn't have accepted it. Because all the amendments of the People's Party go this way. He literally put "to promote coordination mechanisms" -- not "to continue" -- "to fill needs." So, by "filling needs" we, at that moment, understand that you have to help municipalities that have no resources. Snow is a good thing, especially for our region — and for all areas of Galicia where snow — not only as a tourist resource, as it can be in the county where I live, but as a very important factor for the ecosystem in which it falls. We know from municipalities that today don't have the meteorological immensities that have many mountain councils, large municipalities that have many more means given by the Galician Union, even with machines that leave out in municipalities that hardly snow all year long and that were easy by the Galician Union. While, in other cases, there are municipalities like San Juan de Río or The Poor Tribes that don't have these tools. Year after year, we found these headlines: "The snow makes it difficult for six roads in Lugo and Ourense", "Continue the problems in Lugo and Ourense by the snow," "The snows alert the mountains of Lugo and Ourense," or "Galice will be affected today and tomorrow by heavy snowshoes that will incommunicate many roads." Then, before that, the Union has to give a solution. We're talking about the fact that we want to clear a road so that there's basic services, so that a person can get close to the medical center, so that a child can access the school or the bread can get to the village and buy it from people. I've got two pictures here that I'll give you later, because I think you're all right to see them. This is a road in a municipality in Ourense, it's a road. And the Town Hall is pulling out with a snow-mixed spaghetti because its neighbours can't go to the medical center. And that's what we mean, the means for those municipalities that need it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u385	Thank you, your time is up. Close the question by the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u386	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Rodríguez, I think that in the end we agree that we must complete and continue to coordinate. In the end, if we have to keep completing is that something we were doing. I remind him that you were telling us that we should be doing too much, because they said that we took $500,000 out of the game to buy this material and that we destined it for other things. They should have thought we were going too far. We must also have some consistency. You said we didn't spend that much money on this. We didn't listen to them, and we're going to continue to go on, and that's what allows little and little to go on completing. The first time the San Juan de Río Town Hall asked for emergency material was last year. Therefore, before it was very difficult to give it to him. Do you know when we gave it to him? The first time you asked for it. He asked for a whole-terrestrial vehicle that they didn't have, and we gave it to him. He came here to pick him up in September at Beariz. They didn't ask for a knife. They then asked for it in a letter, in which, by the way, I appreciated the good treatment I was giving to Junta de Galicia. And this is always to thank and acknowledge. I was asking for a knife at the end of September. Well, with that money to buy emergency material for the snows, which you wanted us to lower, it's the one you're going to buy. And next year they'll continue to split up. So when the budget comes into effect it's when we can do all these things. So we will do it in competitive competition and tera it corresponds to it, which I hope so because it is indeed a high mountain council. The knife is worth about 7,500 euros; the vehicle pick up that gave you the Galician board, more than 40,000. Therefore, it is logical that the municipality, prioritising, should first ask the vehicle — it has — and now ask the knife. And if you correspond to that competition, that objectively I understand it will correspond to you, because you will have that knife. And we'll keep giving, because in the last four years, I'll tell you that in Ourense alone we've given almost 40 elements of this kind. So you can't tell me we've transferred this responsibility to the municipalities. On the contrary, the Town Councils assist us in giving them this kind of material. We're doing it and we're gonna keep doing it. We don't give machines away, so I have to get him out of the way. We've got sprawlers, knives and cucumbers. Galician union doesn't give away machines. He's got his own exits and therefore when they're needed to put them into operation. By the way, in this region I have to say that the local emergency plan of the San Juan de Río Town Hall itself — which, by the way, for years has not been renewed and should already be done — already foresees what is in other surrounding municipalities, the GES of Castro Caldelas or in the Poor Trives, where there are material leftovers given by the Galician Union, or also in the cheese chain, to, if necessary, go there. Apart from this, there's the very machinery that the Deputy has. Is it the ideal and necessary for the Town Hall to have it? Well, this year we'll try to be like this. And we will continue, so we will vote in favour by completing the material and making an effort, which is done by the Galician Union and I can assure you that no other autonomous community is doing so throughout Spain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u387	Thank you, Vice President. Question by Mr Jaime Castineira Broz and eight other Members of the G.P. Most popular of Galicia, about the management that he did to the Galician Union since he knew the Spanish Government's decision to leave without the service of sale of presental tickets, from December 31st, eight train stations in Greece
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u388	Mr. Rodríguez Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u389	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, Counselor. This point for which this parliamentary group is going to ask is a matter of great interest to our autonomous community, and especially of vital importance to all of us. We put this question to you on January 3, 2020, when we know the Spanish Government's intention to leave several train stations in our community without the service of selling tickets in person since December 31, 2019. As you well know, the current government of Spain is changing, they change their mind every five minutes. The intention, already materialized, was to stop providing the current service at eight railway stations in our community. In this case the socialist lottery fell out: in the Coruña it was Ortigueira; in Lugo, Burela, Sarria and Viveiro; in Ourense, The Carballin and Ribadavia; in Pontevedra, Roundola and Guillarei, in Tui, where I was born and where I live. But these news is not new, because in 2016 there was also news that pointed to the transvasion of the sales channel of the stations of Adif and Renfe. In that case they were The Carballin, Ribadavia, The Street, The Boat, Round it, Guillarei and Sarria. So all the pressure transferred from the Galician Union, which had direct contact with those responsible, and with the unanimous stance of this Parliament, had as a result that Adif had abandoned that plan of closing the sale of face-to-face tickets at railway stations. In this case, in 2020, Junta moved its disagreement with this measure which the State Government intends to implement at these eight stations; especially because it is mainly in rural areas. From this parliamentary group we consider this matter extremely important, since the Spanish Government's decision to leave the sale of tickets without service will entail a decline in quality in the services it provides to citizens. Surprisingly, this government is back off again. Not only April, May, June... now they want to get to 100 tickets at the train stations. The salesman didn't come back, sell them the traffic officer. How can they sell tickets and monitor train traffic? Great irresponsibility! The unions, the General Labour Confederation, criticize this solution. The sale of tickets in the afternoon at certain stations has been closed since the summer. Buying the ticket with the limit of squares is risky. Buy in Mail, on the Internet! Not everyone controls the Internet. However, a dehumanization of the service is taking place. The workers above all. Socialist policy: We put on sales machines or the Internet. It's a progressive option. I've solved the subject. Moreover, towards the holy year of Jacob, thousands of pilgrims will come to Galicia. For all this, we want to know the management that made the Galician Board since the decision of the Central Government, PSOE-We can, on the sale of face-to-face tickets from December 31st in eight railway stations in Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u390	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Pérez. Response from the Infrastructure & Mobility Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u391	Thank you, President. Well, Your Honor, as you said, since you presented this initiative, there has been some novelty; some novelty but no significant advance, rather no reassuring information on this matter. We received the past Christmas a letter from Renfe with his intention of closing the sale of present-day tickets at eight stations of Galicia — Ortigueira, Burela, Viveiro, Sarria, The Carballiniño, Ribadavia, Guillarei and Round-up. From the first moment, as we did in 2017, since the end of 2016, we have expressed the frontal opposition to this measure, which is against rural and against public services in Galicia, demanding immediate solutions to maintain this provision of services on equal terms throughout Galicia, with the same criteria, and which lead to the criteria of proximity, attention to citizenship and not economic criteria, as is being done in the Government of Spain with this matter. Because our rural people, our young people, the older people who live in rural areas, of course, are important; and more the larger population, which is much less used to new technologies. From the Galician Union we call for a change in that decision. We are consistent and, as we did in 2017 — and we have achieved it — we do not want to close the sale of face-to-face tickets at train stations in Galicia. They can remember the year 2016 and 2017, when there were seven stations, specifically, and thanks to the management of the Galician Union, we managed to maintain this sales service. There was a central government in Spain who heard us and responded to our demand to maintain that public transport service. We ask the Government of the Socialist Party and We can in Madrid, the Government of Pedro Sánchez. We ask you to maintain the presence sales service at the train stations you are withdrawing and there is no loss of employment. We got it in 2017, and I'm waiting for the sensitivity of the Government of Spain and not those patches, those messes that you're doing at the train stations to dismantle the public train transport service at Galicia stations. It's patches, provisional decisions and, of course, remedies. What we see in Sarria, for example, is even a go and come, a rifi-rafe, between Adif and Renfe. And in the meantime, the neighbors without the service of rail sales. In Ribadavia and The Carballin, for until March, to see if there's anything. So these are provisional solutions, as Teruel has achieved, there are until June 30, and the BNG or that waste agreement has succeeded. We don't want beatings or excuses or cheated at Galician train stations. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u392	Thank you, Counselor. Mr. Rodríguez Pérez's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u393	Thank you very much, President. Counsellor, thank you very much for your answer and your responsibility and that of the Galician Union. From this group we asked the Board to exaggerate clear, official and concrete information. Counsellor, you know that in the places where there are train stations there is life, there is trade, there is business, cafes, pharmacy, banks, etc. We can't allow this government to make ghost stations, lifeless. Many Galician stations are authentic architectural jewels that we must enhance, never dismantle. We are convinced that the branch minister is more airports than train stations. Mr Abalos is a reliable minister — I am sure he always tells the truth — a clear example, a whole stream of ideas, excuses and explanations. What seems incredible is how the opposition anesthetized in Galicia is now all justifiable. [[Murmurs.]] Madam Counsellor, if we have been able to modify it in 2017 with a Government of the Socialist Party, we will bring this issue to the next plenary session and we will, hopefully, achieve a unanimous agreement from this Parliament. We are now asking for exactly the same as in 2017. The sad thing is to listen — or not to — to the silence of Members and Members in this House, with an anesthetized or bought opposition with wallets of everything that comes from Madrid. For the Block, In Tide, Joint Left Group or the Socialist Party now everything is fine. At the bedside table, not to piss off your boss, Mr. Knight, chitoon! —that he's not, by the way; he's almost never, he's the best he can do. Mr. Knight, if you put the Socialist Party before the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks, you and your party will end up dead, that you well know you don't take anywhere. Counsellor, we need you to exaggerate solutions, but not temporary solutions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u394	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez. Question is closed by the Infrastructure & Mobility Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u395	Thank you, President. Well, as I said, there's a lack of information, lack of concretion, provisional plans and remedies. But, in any case, since the Galician Union, concerned about this matter, we have called for a meeting of Renfe's representatives. This meeting took place this Monday, this last Monday, and the priority issue was the maintenance of this public service at these eight train stations in Galicia. And the truth is, he moved us, as he said, little realization, little information. Of course, what moved was nothing reassuring: patches and locks, provisional solutions; what we demand is a definitive and clear solution for the sale of present tickets at these train stations. Here he spoke before helping the Town Councils and addressing collaboration with the Town Councils. What surprises me is that you don't say anything to that side of the bench about what Renfe and Adif are doing: move your proposal, move with agreement to the Town Councils, keep this service with agreements with the Town Councils and move that problem. [[Murmurs.]] We're talking about the staff that with these agreements he makes advice, the sale of tickets, making these agreements with the municipalities. Of course, what seems unreasonable to us, and less so with the plans we see from Renfe to Guillarei, in Tui, is to keep that sale of tickets with a contract from Adif in which the service is not secured for more than a year. In Sarria — we have seen it in the press — that refirafe between Adif and Renfe, with that inoperative machine; in Ribadavia and The Carballin — we have seen it — is not expected to sell face-to-face tickets until March, nor will there be a self-sell machine. Of course, it's nothing serious. And less seriously, it is still, to propose agreements with the municipalities to transfer that burden to the municipalities themselves. Of course, it's nothing serious and, of course, in my opinion, it's a joke. Definitive solutions are what we request for the maintenance of this ticket sale, this public service. And of course, the solution to the problem is not to sign agreements to transfer the problem to the municipalities and solve the problem. So we call for real solutions, just like we did in 2017. By the way, the whole Parliament has voted unanimously; I hope you will also be consistent here this time. We are concerned about this matter, and we want a guarantee plan, railway services, ticket sales at all stations in Galicia. And, of course, what the Government of Spain is doing is slowly dismantling these railway services and letting the railway die here in Galicia. To buy with the Greeks and to stop looking at the Mediterranean so much. Buy it with Galicia. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u396	Thank you, Counselor. We are now debating questions 7.3 and 7.5 accumulatingly. Question from Noa Presas Bergantiños and five other Members from the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the organisation and security of the school transport of several centres of Ourense province in January 2020 Question by Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and three other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the evaluation of the xunta de Galicia with regard to the incidences produced in the public school transport service in the province of Ourense on the resumption of the activity of educational centres after the holidays of Christmas
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u397	He begins by asking the question to Mrs. Noa Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u398	We say, we say, Mrs Vázquez; don't worry. I, if you like, make a proposal: I'm doing collective amnesia — just like the People's Party does — we forget the nearly thirty stations you closed in 2012 and the more than 50 lines of train you closed, and I'm going with you to the next meeting with the lords of Renfe, if you like. [[Applause]] If you want, I'm going with you, which, in addition, we've just launched a campaign to defend the internal train from the BNG, and I can also bring you a few booklets to bring more proposals than you said. [[Applause]] But, also speaking of transport, there is another one — which I know he likes to talk less about because it is his competence, which is school transport. I want to remind you of an 18th January headline: "The advisor went up to the bus in Seixalbo and had to hear the complaints." If you've heard the complaints live, I imagine that at least today you won't deny reality and bring us three very clear things: the first, sorry for this situation; the second, explanations, and the third, solutions. [[Applause]] Because you know that this new phase of the transport plan, first, came late, because it had to be before I started school, and second, it came up with problems because you're a bunch of cheaters and cheaters. On January 8th, he knows that the school resumed — by the way, with temperatures below zero; you're going a lot for Ourense, so you know it's cold enough — and it was a disaster: there were problems on the lines that connected to the schools of Maceda, Allariz, Barbados or Ourense — like the case of Seixalbo, which was a real spook. You know, at best, they waited in the cold; in other cases, not even a bus appeared. But there were serious cases of lack of security: in Barbados they know they put boys and girls who used to go on two buses, on one. How? Lack of security. There were problems with the escorts too. There were also problems, for example, in Celanova, where they were until last week going on an urban bus without a belt on those roads, Mrs Vázquez, who you know are complicated. This is very serious. Besides, it rains on wet, because, as if this was little, we also have the other part of the chaos of this new phase of the transport plan in the transport of passengers, which often also employ boys and girls who do the bachelor's degree or cycles in the city, like those of the line coming from Xinzo, going through Allariz to Ourense, who had an increase of almost 30% of the price. Because you were a few things earlier and allowed contracts with low-temperary ones. And, now, who pays up? They pay for the neighbors and neighbors of Ourense. So, in the face of this amazing situation, both in the transport of passengers and in the transport of school, Mrs Vázquez, what excuses will bring, what solutions and explanations for this situation to be corrected as soon as possible and, above all, why it should not happen again? Because this is your responsibility. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u399	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. You now have the word Mrs. Noela Blanco of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u400	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Counsellor, the implementation of the new transport plan brought in that trunk to Ourense province in the tickets — as in that 50 percent Limia route — lacks information on changes in the routes and schedules of these buses, and also brought hundreds of children literally shot or at bus stops or at school doors because of the lack of transport, which is why we ask you today. Problems in that transport, errors, problems of connections, of delays, which basically occurred in the lines of Pereiro to Ourense and, in particular, the school of Mende; from San Cibrao to Ourense, in the center of Seixalbo; and also in Celanova, in Allariz, in Barbados and in Ribadavia. In some cases it had to be the mothers and parents who abandoned their jobs to take their children to school; they didn't even know where their boys and girls were. In others, they remained — as was said here — on a warm morning, hours waiting for those buses; they circulated without escorts, in other cases; in others, they had to go moored on a single bus. And this didn't happen one day, not two, not three; in some cases, even more than a week. That's right, by the time you came to advertise and advertise the Ourense Transport Plan, to get on a bus with all the charges of the People's Party, the bus was in time and shape, and even if it paralyzed a line so that you could do precipitate without any problems. [[Applause]] By the way, those screams that were being heard up on the bus, they assured us, they didn't listen, as it seems to be customary, in CRTVG's report, which once again censored the protests to their government. [[Applause]] Look, President Feijóo sent an emotional letter — which we call a pre-electoral pamphlet — to children and children in the children's schools from 0-3 years old at Christmas, accompanied by an image of the children and girls, wishing them happy parties to families and even showing their willingness to encourage them to present suggestions. I want to ask you today, Counselor, if you are going to do the same in this case, if you and Mr. Feijóo are going to send a letter to these families to apologize, to all the Orenean families who have suffered the chaos that has caused you and your department, and if you are going to allow them, as in that Christmas congratulations, to transfer directly the complaints to you for the terrible management of school transport. Nothing else for now. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u401	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. [[Pause.]] Wait, I've got a little problem here. I want to give you the exact time. Whenever you want. Response from the Infrastructure & Mobility Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u402	Thank you, Your Honor. You're predictable. In any case, I'm surprised that the BNG, which in Pontevedra is appalled, years and years, only for two lines of transport on demand. If they have in Galicia the 2,000 lines we've set in motion -- and also with public train transport services -- they're crazy. I don't know... you have to have papo to come here and talk about public transport. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] But we're going to talk about public transport by road, by buses, of course. You're predictable, just like it was in 2017. They come with the same mantra. In 2017, in fear—the same—because you are predictable and the same pattern. I can understand the interest of the request for information. I can understand, of course, the concern about the imbalances; I can understand it perfectly, and the logic is that they ask. Of course they do; but not that alarmism they're doing, because it's not true. They're alarming for no reason. And I fully understand those parents and their concern about those moments that have passed. They are the mother of three children; I understand it perfectly. I understand the concern of these parents and I regret it. But in any case, if you come here with this alarmism -- by the way, with a problem that's solved -- it seems to me, of course... I'm sorry. A thousand seven hundred lines of transport that we launched new, one thousand seven hundred! I wanted to see him in Pontevedra, with two lines. A thousand and seven hundred lines, of course. And there were incidences in two -- I'm sorry -- 0.1%, if you have to put a number on it. I don't like to put a number on him because we're talking about kids, and I've got kids in my house too. So I'm sorry. And I appreciate the understanding of the parents, I appreciate the understanding of the ANPAs, with whom we have been in constant contact. I am also grateful for the understanding of the corresponding teaching centres, of what I have talked about, of these timely situations. And the truth is, it's been hours of the first day of operator change in which there were those problems, I'm sorry; but, of course, it's working with total normality and no incidence since that situation was fixed, in a few hours, because the same afternoon the transport of these children was already solved in the first few hours. The new services run with total normality and the shared bus works with total normality. One thousand seven hundred lines of transport that we launched on January 7th; one thousand three hundred are of shared bus lines, with the maximum guarantees, increasing territorial coverage, exponentially multiplying the possibilities of moving, of mobility, especially in rural, thanks to this shared bus; one thousand three hundred bus lines, with all of them; twenty-seven thousand boys, each day, that we carry so that they go safely to each teaching center. With the course resumed, it was 8,000 services. If he gets to be in Pontevedra, with the BNG, with two lines of transport on demand, and he's surprised -- I say so again. Eight thousand services, and only in Ourense province, four hundred and twenty-five integrated lines, eight thousand and two hundred students who attend their teaching center every day. Every line in Ourense is a shared bus, which certainly favours mobility exponentially for everyone in the countryside. This mode of transport is essential to give the rural future. Two thousand five hundred shared bus services in Ourense province; two thousand five hundred shared services that are provided with timely incidences. If you have to put a number -- I say I don't like to put a number on that point because they're kids and they're important to me -- you have to put that number on it; if you put a number on it, in the province of Ourense, it's 1%. In three days, solved, and, therefore, I don't think it's consistent with everything you're saying here about chaos, the price of the ticket... that the ticket price is 2016. What am I gonna tell you? It's less bad that Galicia is in our hands and it's not in your hands, because with the experience we have of the city bus in Pontevedra, where are we going to stop? [[Murmurs.]] All shot, no bus. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Galicia without transport, just like Pontevedra without urban transport. So that unwarranted alarmism I don't understand. For us, with all shared bus contracts, you pay school attention, of course you do; schoolchildren are priority. We guarantee the presence of monitors and escorts in each and every one of the shared transport lines. And you again have doubts about this model, which is essential for the future in rural areas and for rural mobility. Three hundred thousand general users on the shared bus since 2017, without a single significant incidence. And so, 300 thousand users we gave them a public transport facility they didn't have before. Because it is a useful transport, economically viable, sustainable and necessary for our rural future. Three out of four citizens positively consider this Transport Plan, and for us the opinion of users is important. The good welcome is very clear with this shared bus mode, about which you are sowing all doubts and all uncertainties; therefore, you seem to want to remove this mode of transport from the countryside; but we are not going to remove it. And there are many municipalities, also from different parties, who ask me for this mode of transport, of course. This mode of transport is sustainable. Do you care about the environment? Well, it's sustainable. It is also a mode of shared transport — thinking in rural areas — and what it requires of us is European legislation. That you already knew in 2007, when you ruled the Bipartite! They didn't do anything to you! The European Regulation in 2007 was already known and expired. We had to come to revolutionize and facilitate the mobility of public transport. [[Murmurs.]] They left the next one standing, without you doing anything; therefore, we are concerned about giving public transport service to our rural community, throughout Galicia and also to the metropolitan areas. We'd like to see the Government of Spain do the same as when it comes to the sale of train tickets. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u403	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u404	Yes, president. Before I wanted to tell Mrs. Blanco that she didn't go for the wound either, because she said they were all in charge of the People's Party and they were just those of Congress and the Senate. I do not know what kind of problem Mrs Vázquez has with the Members of the European Parliament, if they are already so obsessed with the powers of the State that they will no longer be represented here! [[Applause]] Some of the conecelera change, and I understand it, because it's got to be hard for the neighbors to protest at the council and have to put their face on this board of Galicia. All my solidarity with the concelers and concelers of the People's Party... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u405	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u406	...affected. What is really predictable is the lack of self-existence and the lack of arguments on the part of the People's Party, as well as its sovereignty. Finally, the problem of transport in Ourense is Mr. Lores. Well, I'll send you a Wasap to fix it, Mrs. Vázquez! [[Applause]] Anyway... alarmism! Ours is alarmism and theirs, incompetence. Because it takes three days, at best, to solve school transport problems... But it wasn't just three days! I gave him an example, that of Portogrande, in Celanova, where until last week his parents and mothers were protesting because their children were on an urban bus with no safety belts, no security measures, and only when they set up a fool had a solution. Because that's how Galician Union works: only when there's follon find a solution. And we ask for more responsibility, Mrs. Vázquez, because of the solution, nothing. They will be resolved at last — it was also not at all — the routes of strictly school transport. But there's more problems, and there's a price problem in many lines caused by you, for the first fake contest that they pulled and allowed low fears. And now that overcost who has to pay it? We, of course, do not share that they have to be the families. And I insist: it's not school transportation, but there are many schoolchildren who are going to do cycles or bachelors in the city and who shouldn't have that overcost. So I make two proposals: first, you assume, you assume that overcost, because it's your lack of forecast and an inappropriate contract that allows it; and secondly, you stop campaigning in Ourense to promise us for spring transport...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u407	Thank you, Mrs. Presas, thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u408	...free for children under twenty-one years and give us...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u409	Thank you, it's over. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Thank you. No, Mrs. Presas, your time is up. [[Applause]] Replica, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u410	Thank you, President. I, ladies and gentlemen, there are things in which I have practically pulled the towel; I must admit it, Counselor. But to see if it's possible, from here that the legislation ends, that we don't have to hear again "I, who are mother." What's the matter, that those who are not mothers don't have to have empathy for the families who have children and daughters? What is it, which is an exclusive right of half women or of all women? [[Applause]] I say it because I'm a little tired of listening to it already in this legislation to you and to other government members as well. But, look, you're also quite predictable; the truth is, you're quite predictable, in addition to being quite afraid. We're talking about kids and girls, young people, okay? We're talking about minors who aren't experiments; they're not tamagotchis, Counselor. They're children or children, and with them you're experimenting with that transport plan that we've already said on many occasions is a real failure; that's the failure of a strategy that's not planned nor with the municipalities, nor is it planned with the neighborhood, but it's from an office; it's costing a real million, and it's caused the companies themselves to have to solve these small, sometimes big, problems. Because for us it is a great problem that there are hundreds of children taken literally at the doors of a school; that they go without companions; that they go without a seat of security... And for you, as a counselor, I urge you, in addition to making opposition being in government, to oppose the Government of Spain, which is what you do every day; apart from making opposition or advertising and propaganda, or mixing of the two, which is what Ourense comes to do, when it is not to come to lie — by right — about the intermodal, about the AVE, about school transport... Instead of coming to lie, instead of advertising and propaganda, come and distribute money to... come and distribute letters — sorry, I mean "cards" —. [[Murmurs.]] That's because you're a lot of envelopes. It was my subconscious; they have to forgive me, gentlemen. It was the subconscious. They're sending letters to apologize to those families at the school's door, Counselor... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u411	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco, your time is up. Thank you, thank you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence! Come on, take it easy. Now you have to answer the counselor. Six points... six minutes, sorry. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, quiet. Quiet. We're done now, come on! Response from the Infrastructure & Mobility Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u412	Thank you, President. I'm a mother, proud to be a mother, and I'll say that I'm a mother as often as I think it's appropriate. [[Applause]] And if you want to get on the bus with me, if that's the problem, you're invited. Next time, of course, they're invited... I see they want to get on the bus with me. [[Murmurs.]] It's nice to have you come up with me on the bus, which is a public transport, of course, which is worth picking up, and coming with me. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Of course, with the metropolitan card; but don't worry, that Ourense boys also have the New People's card. Don't worry, they'll have it. And now, in a matter of months. Don't worry. Seven hundred and forty million euros of public funds in ten years to maintain public transport, so that the ticket prices are what they are. You were talking about money: seven hundred and forty million euros of public funds from the Galician Union in ten years to maintain public transport. So, do the math and don't be wrong — with error, because I'm wrong with transport issues — because there are the surveys. You can also go to Carballo to see how they enjoy that public transport that multiplies mobility possibilities. Deep down, you know perfectly well. Do you know what people are asking us? Let's show you more public transport, let's show you more shared bus. That's what people ask us to do, and that's what we're going to do, improving public transport every day, because that's what people ask us to do. You, with falsehoods, those of the Bipartite... as they bother you, I won't tell you, but I know... so they didn't do anything. It's easy not to do anything, of course. The easy thing is to do nothing; and while you don't do anything because it's the easy one, we're here changing and mobilizing a whole new public transport plan from Galicia. I'm the pure incoherence. What do you want me to tell you? Speaking of public transport: "Tren, the case of the medium distance train paves the way for buses". Too bad there's buses! Thanks to the Galician Union, Galicia has not been without transport. "New incidences due to lack of trains and mechanics on the lumen lines", "Rinfe without enough locomotives..." If they want to talk about public transport... but, yes, in that train-exhaust agreement and improvements of trains and rolling stock, nothing at all; in that waste-agreement, of course, all these kinds of services are obvious. We're giving schoolchildren priority, because it's a matter of priority. But in any case, the Minister of Development was last weekend, and if you're so worried about public transport, I could also ask you about the train stations. But, of course, he was more concerned about airplanes than about trains; he was more concerned about airplanes than about trains. And also more concerned about airplanes than about buses. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But I invite them to be constructive and not to be alarmed about things that are not true. In Ourense, of course, we have given clear instructions to the transport company to take the necessary steps to ensure the transfer of children in time and form, with solutions and, of course, with complete coordination with the entire staff service of the General Directorate of Ourense Mobility, and speaking with the ANPA. We will be careful and vigilant — of course yes — asking for maximum agility and that the contracts are as few as possible and that they do not exist. But I say, with the start of the Christmas school course, eight thousand services throughout Galicia, one thousand three hundred bus lines shared with empty squares, or thirty percent, two thousand five hundred services shared in the province of Ourense; with some punctual incidence, yes, but which was resolved in a matter of hours. So I invite them to speak with property, because we're talking, in two lines, of between a thousand and seven hundred lines. What goes well doesn't matter to them; but, in any case, we want everything to work out. You don't think it's important that we put in five Ourense schools for a thousand students and a thousand families; a unique day that exists thanks to this public transport plan. Obviously, but this is possible thanks to a public transport that you want to fall down and you're afraid of; a public transport that gives quality of mobility in our rural, with services on demand and with the shared bus, two basic modes of transport in this plan. You, of course, don't know if you consider it a pioneer plan, but there are a lot of places that consider it a pioneer plan, and many autonomous communities are calling us to do the same we're doing. We're pioneers; they don't like us to be pioneers, but in this case we just do. Advanceing in the province of Ourense, in management, in the extension to all Galicia discount bonds. There are 50 percent discount bonuses, and so is this card — Mrs. BNG, Mrs. Presas, to which you so worried about prices — New People. It will reach the whole province of Ourense, thanks to the transport plan, thanks to the seven hundred and forty million euros in ten years of public funds that we are including, in public transport, the Union of Galicia. Twenty thousand boys who could enjoy it! Too bad Pontevedra doesn't have an urban bus for New People's card! And also city buses from other cities... don't you like New People's card? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We will implement it: fifty-five thousand boys, today, with this New People card, which we will take to the whole province of Ourense and throughout Galicia. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u413	Thank you, Counselor. Question from Da Maria de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda and two other MPs from G.P. Left Joint Group, on Galician Union intentions regarding rectification of the current construction project for an intermodal station in Ourense and recovery of originally planned
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u414	Whenever you want, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u415	Good afternoon, Counselor. Ourense, the forgotten, the ill-treated, the evil one, is standing, apart from parties, claiming what it deserves and demanding the Platform for a dignified intermodal station. The most important infrastructure project in Ourense and province of the 21st century is a historic opportunity for urban regeneration. What does the platform claim? The platform that, by the way, has more support every day, multiplies its support to giant steps. Demands project improvement, knows that modification is possible, as it has happened in other cities. He wants an open door. An open door to that? At a clean, sustainable intermodal; the current project is not, at both environmental and economic levels. He wants a vertebrate station — not vertebrate — and permeable — not sutures the wound between neighborhoods, between The Vinteo and The Bridge, with a trace of shame. He wants a station with mobility, and we know that, as he's designed, he's going to generate real circulatory chaos. A bus, passing every three minutes, will undoubtedly collapse the streets. A modern intermodal is also requested. Foster's was. People say "no" to remittances, and this project is a mixture of three: denominations like pendant, carpet, dispurpose, expensive and cascade monstrosity are for something. An aesthetic and functional — not irrational — station is claimed, healthy — and highly contaminant. Where did you see a hitchhiking around a health center? Integrator: Why do you think we're talking about the wall of shame between the railway terminal and the urban stretch? Because it doesn't fit in. Safe: Counselor, we're all going to die; we're going to die all runaways, suffocated, contaminated. Yes! [[Murmurs.]] What's the question, finally? A station, the best to live, that enhances Ourense's wealth and strength. Counselor, don't leave the door open to speculation. Counselor, what have you done in these ten black years, leave the intermodals in the drawer? As advisor it has been since 2014; they have had the opportunity to match at least two ministers of their party, from 2011 to 2018. You are indeed predictable, for I am sure you throw balloons out as on your day he did with the governments of change in the Crown and in Compostela. But please spare us the shame of hearing the blame on the current Central Government! Talk to the citizenry, talk to the experts, to Adif, to the Minister of Mobility, to his lethal partner, according to Feijóo, in Ourense. You're not a free verse...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u416	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u417	...you're responsible. And the question is, will you do what you need to prevent this project...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u418	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u419	...hypotheque the future of the city and province of Ourense? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u420	Thank you. Response from the Infrastructure & Mobility Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u421	Thank you, President. The truth is, I'm not surprised that you're asking for the paralysing of infrastructures because you've already done so in the Coruña, with your change of criteria, and you've had to pull down, throw out the trash, a whole project from the intermodal station of the Coruña and start from scratch. So I'm not surprised at anything that your party again wanted to paralyze key infrastructures in the city. I see in Ourense what you prefer is a model, and there's no more outraged intermodal than just staying in a single model. I think it should be clear that the Ourense intermodal station -- and generally all -- is mainly formed by three basic elements: the bus terminal, integrating the intermodal station, which we are doing, which is running and in five months will end. It's designed by technical experts, by a multidisciplinary team, not only by architects, but also by engineers, and it has a underground parking lot, which, being Ourense, we suppose you know you need a lot of parking spaces there. This is done by Adif, because what finances the Galician Union is the railway terminal. And I think it's where it weighs more indefinition, where there's really more problems, but the railway side designed it and defended it by the Ministry of Development and Adif. And from that intermodal station, in my opinion, I'm going to tell you that it's exactly what you say and that it defends you in your writing: permeability, intermodality, sustainability and rationality in spending. That's exactly what he's doing -- I'll explain, don't worry. Because there are conceptual ideas that as ideas are very good, but the works have to be done and, of course, if there are several techniques it is very difficult to pass to reality the models, because the paper and the model bear everything, but the works have to be viable, executable and not left in the models. With regard to building the bus terminal, we are building it, ensuring intermodality, with an agreed design with the Ministry, with Adif and with the Town Hall. Not before or after their respective governments indicated that that had to change. It was agreed, endorsed, spoken and personally addressed even with Norman Foster's technicians, public information, incorporating approaches, unanimous agreements, and approved unanimously in the Higher Urbanism Commission; a strategic infrastructure that is running with 9 million euros and will soon end in months. We're going to meet the city of Ourense with maximum transparency, with maximum participation, and that's why we call on the Ministry of Development an urgent meeting to explain its railway part, which is the one that depends on Adif, the Ministry of Development. I, for my part, since it's the part of the Galician board, explanations that I want and, of course, I defend the project. Suppose a substantial improvement in mobility. I see that they seem to refuse to promote public transport. But in any case, I've already told you that the most outraged intermodal is that it's just a model, which is what you seem to want. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u422	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u423	Well predictable. The false claim that the project that won the international competition in 2011 is a simple model, put this expression, this headline, at the mouth of an Infrastructure Advisor, is a shame, has no other adjective. Secondly, it is not true that there is unanimity. The Coag, the College of Ourense Architects, in June 2017 called for the full review of the proposal. They didn't take his suggestions into account. The initial project places the lines north of the current station, freeing up city space and facilitating connection and mobility between neighborhoods. This project does not work. And of course, if you allude to women like Maria Laborda, in charge of the project, with Proyfe company and with the blessing of the Board, because, of course, we next to you say: listen please to the experts, listen to the College of Architects, talk to whom you have to talk, because it's four legs. You have a responsibility and you have a responsibility to talk to others. It's just that, Counsellor, even the Board of Auditors has denounced the lack of coordination between administrations to unlock the project. Look, I believe that with your policies and especially with the unworthy treatment of Ourense - health policies, educational policies and social policies - what you have to do is make poetic justice, which will pass your bill. Ourense is the only city that doesn't have a center for adults with functional diversity managed by public personnel. Look at the case of Verín, or the case of Education, or college campus, the infrastructure, Counsellor. Listen, open your ear...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u424	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u425	...and, please, it's wise to rectify. They also talk to citizenship.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u426	Thank you. Close the Infrastructure & Mobility Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u427	Thank you, President. I don't know if you know who's composed of the High Urban Commission, but there are many agents represented and also... I invite you to see the High Urban Commission, I invite you to see how it is composed because you unanimously approved this project. [[Murmurs.]] In any case, a little bit of pedagogy: I think an image is worth more than a thousand words. This is the health center - you're from Ourense - with the supermarket on top and all the car parking. [[Lady Infrastructure & Housing Advisor, Vázquez Mourelle, shows photographs.]] From the wall I'll talk to you later, which is the part of Adif, which is not our part. Well, you see all the traffic, an area of ready food, and, therefore, all this noise in the health center. What we're going to do is totally radical improvement, moving away from parked areas... yes, yes, removing more than 10 meters on roads and therefore improving intermodality, ensuring public transport and improving in this radical way the whole area, eliminating noises from trains and heavy vehicles of loading and unloading that are now gone, because we're tearing it down. So I think it's important that this vision of how the health center used to be, that they didn't care, of course, anyone, and you never moved anything before on it. It's an area that's going to be totally improved. We also sound the health center, 3500 square meters of gardens, and we also execute a demand - which, in my opinion, you, who is from Ourense, you have to know, I understand that yes - of parking spaces in the Ponte neighborhood that is necessary and that we are running over 300 in a underground parking lot. So to me, of course, it doesn't seem responsible to me to paralyze works that are running at EUR 9 million. In my opinion, it's a new bus terminal that radically improves this whole area, modern, competitive and integrated into the intermodal station and that we'll end up this summer with a global project, because not only will we do the new competitive and modern bus terminal, but at the current bus station we'll make a residence and equipment for older, which is perhaps what we don't want to do, but we'll do it because it's necessary in Ourense. We think of Ourense. The railway terminal - I've already told you - is the responsibility of the central government. You support the central government, you can ask him to face the Ministry of Development. The wall area is on Adif's side. Let him face the Ministry of Development and explain the part of the railway terminal, as I saw here explain the part of the bus terminal, because it is the one that creates the greatest uncertainties. The Avenida de Marín is of State competence and therefore of the railway. Mr. Abalos was at the end of the week and he might ask you, but he's more busy with planes than with trains, and I think there's something you don't know about. Quotas are very hard on engineering projects. I wonder if that quota of Eulogio Gómez Francqueira, with the quota they can predict...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u428	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u429	...trains don't fly. We can't take an elevator so the buses...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u430	Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u431	...come in and get out of a...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u432	Thank you, Counselor. Your time is up. Thank you. Question by D. Antón Sánchez García and D. Marcos Cal Ogango, from G.P. Joint Left Group, on whether the Government of Greece will proceed to declare the expiry of the procedure for updating and reopening the Touro mine for exceeding the deadlines for its processing referred to in Article 33.4 of Law 13/2013, of environmental assessment
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u433	Mr. Sánchez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u434	Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor. Let me begin by greeting the members of the Touro-O Pino Mine Platform who today accompany us and thank them for their constant work, because without that struggle it would not be possible to achieve what seems to have already been achieved, which anticipated the advisor yesterday and which we expect to know officially, soon, that is the refusal to approve the environmental impact declaration of the Touro mine reopening project. [[Applause]] It's a good news, anyway, even though we believe that without that citizen struggle it has gradually spread throughout Galicia, because of that Galicia which does not want a country destroyed by speculative business, this step would not be possible. You were forced to make this decision in the face of popular pressure and retreated. But it's a good news and we all congratulate ourselves on this solution, which seems to put an end to a huge concern about the proximity of these two municipalities. But this does not end here, we also want to know the contents of the environmental impact statement and mine resolution, because the contents of the environmental impact declaration are also very important for the future of this area and for the future of Galicia. And this does not end here, because we will continue to demand the restoration of the area, which if we avoid the pollution that has been produced for more than thirty years after the former exploitation is closed. Today, two complaints from the Public Prosecutor's Office are being moved by the spills of the Bama ferry to the Brandelos River, the Angumil ferry and the Arinterian ferries, which pour acid water, which have been pouring acidic waters for thirty years while you were looking to the other side. We will continue to fight, in addition, against the permitted model of privatization of profits, socialization of losses in this country, whether in Touro, whether in mount Neme, either in Tricastela, in San Fins, in Terra Cha, in Santa Comba or in Forcarei. We will continue to fight because this government has shown that it cares little about our environment and people's health. Many institutions have denounced this systematic practice of the Galician Union, such as the Ombudsman in the 2015, 2017 and 2018 annual reports, in the statement by the Administration of a non-cooperating entity, its board, for not answering up to three times the information requirements or recent UN complaints, which draws attention to Galicia's abandonment of San Fins miners, in an examination of the Human Rights Council, etc., etc. They tell us we'll be very alert, just as I'm sure you'll be very alert to the neighborhood of Touro, who already knows them and knows their practices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u435	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u436	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Sánchez, I think you have missed a great opportunity to move a little humility into this Parliament, a little humility! If you throughout this process tried to move a little bit about the action of the Government, a little about the regulations, surely today you could be here next to the Government, about the decisions that have been made. The Government has been consistent at all times, defended regulations at all times, and, above all, has fulfilled its word. I'm going to transfer to you what I said on July 1st of 2018 in this same Parliament: "The processing of the Touro mine is an obligation. We're going to respect that obligation of the Administration and we're going to comply with each and every step that marks us the Mining Law." Mr. Sánchez, I also told you in 2018 that the Galician Board would speak on the project when the process was over and that it would, as always, do so motivatedly and based on professional and technical assessments. And I also told you that the way this project was presented was not viable -- July 2018 -- Well, I could end my intervention here because this very intervention could perfectly answer your question today. But it is true that the time has come when the Administration has actually resolved the processing of the environmental impact assessment by considering it negative after receiving and analysing, Mr Sánchez, 1,200 claims and 15 sectoral reports, because that is the obligation we had as administration. I know you tried again and again that this government didn't apply the law. I know, but that's your responsibility and your conscience. This government, what it did through the Declaration of Environmental Impact, was to work rigorously, to ensure at all times the mining, environmental and urban areas, and, in fact, to ensure strict compliance with the regulations. You talk to me about pressure. Tell me, then, why the two negative reports are from the Galician Union. You probably have no explanation because all you care about is just generating uncertainties, generating doubts about government action and, unfortunately, deceiving citizenship. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u437	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u438	Home!, if you ask me for humility, I think it was you who had to have humility after your precedents as government and after the history of this government in relation to environmental respect. When you've been allowing the rents in Touro, as all the neighbors and neighbors know, you should have a little more humility to speak in that tone. As for the government, you ask. So I say the same thing to you, you respect the neighbors and the neighbors of Touro, who have been enduring a situation caused by the company for 30 years, but also by tolerant governments, in violation of the law of these companies. You are necessary accomplices in that situation. Therefore, humility and respect for you first. With regard to the regulations for you too, because they have been failing to comply with the regulations - as many of the institutions I have just named you - you for many years, allowing the pollution of our environment in Touro and in Mount Neme, that we will have to pay €794,000 of public money to fix the outcome of the Leitosa friendly company, which is in Mr. Cotino's Gürtel operation. And as for the regulations, there was neither in Forcare nor in Tricastela, etc. So look in the mirror before you talk about the others. You're telling me about strict compliance with the law. You failed to meet the deadlines set in Law 21/2013, of strategic environmental assessment, because you wanted to give this company every opportunity in the world. They gave him three chances because the reports he named the water advisor of Galicia and Natural Heritage were issued in May 2018 and were reissued in February 2019 over and over again. The law sets certain deadlines that you systematically failed because you were supporting this project. And obviously you'll never recognize that without popular pressure you would have supported this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u439	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. To close this question, the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u440	I see that humility is not exactly a criterion that you want to apply, when, indeed, this government has demonstrated its rigour and has demonstrated how it has been absolutely guaranteed by citizens and absolutely guaranteed by the procedure. Unfortunately, Mr. Sánchez, you're still installed in chryspation. And the saddest thing about being installed in chryspatio is when you talk about employment, when you talk about economy and when you talk about the future for this country. [[Murmurs.]] You're what you've done all these years -- and now you don't want to recognize it because you're not humble -- it's been spending all the time uninformed public opinion. And that should be embarrassing to them, because they did it using all the channels within their reach just to get votes. But the saddest thing is that the only objective of yours was to discredit Galicia, to discredit mining companies and to discredit, unfortunately, workers. And what I can tell you is that the workers, even the workers of Atalaya Mining, deserve respect for their work, deserve respect for the work they do, for those 3,500 jobs we have in Galicia, for those 250 million euros that generate wealth in Galicia through mining. So this government and this councilman are proud of the mining, they are proud of the sustainable mining in Galicia, and I regret that their group is turning their backs on wealth, growth and employment in Galicia. [[Applause]] What I can move you is that we will continue with the assumption of our responsibilities. Of course, we will continue to comply with the law and continue to be enforcers of the law, and that is why we will demand from the Council of Galicia the company officials the updating of the restoration plan and, therefore, start its administrative process. Finally, we will demand that the ecological state of this river course be preserved, in addition to the monitoring work that has been carried out in Galician waters, in accordance with the hydrological plan and also in the Water Framework Directive. You know perfectly well that it is being inspected and that any signs of denunciation are being pursued and you know perfectly that in the last two years there have also been files launched. I think you've missed a great opportunity to defend industry, to defend mining, and I think you should stop hiding in green Galicia just to be able to defend employment and growth in Galicia. Mr. Sánchez, being green doesn't mean attacking industry, as you and your group systematically do in this Parliament. Being green means watching for a sustainable industry and mining. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u441	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Miguel Ángeldo Filgueira and seven other Members of the G.P. People in Galicia, on the assessment of the Government of Greece in respect of the Government of the State announced on energy matters
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u442	Thank you, President. Welcome, Counselor. Unfortunately, we must continue to talk about the problems facing the Galician industries because of the lack of energy policies that are appropriate and provoked by the Government of the State and which, since the Government of the United States, have repeatedly moved on countless occasions to this government. Over a year and a half ago, the electrointensive industry remained electrocuted due to the inaction of Mr. Sánchez's Government. There are more than 5,000 workers in this industry who don't know what their future will be, more than 5,000 workers on the left, who are telling you not to worry about them, who have abandoned them and who are fed up. And I repeat, we don't tell him, they tell him and the committee of these companies. There is a need for solutions, ladies and gentlemen, for a clear problem, the high price of energy, of which the Government of the State is clearly responsible. It is at risk, ladies and gentlemen, the future of Alcoa, who continues to wait for a solution that passes through the approval of the Intensive Statute, a statute that they have neither approved nor shown, perhaps because it will not provoke what everyone expects, which would be the fall in the price of energy. Today we knew that Ferroatlantica shows its concern about the failure to approve this statute, and, as Mr. Sánchez said, Mr. Pedro Sánchez, since March 2019, said that after the elections they would approve the statute. They arrived at the November elections and said that after the elections, when government was formed, they would approve the statute. After four Councils of Ministers since they formed a government, they remain without approval of the so-called statute. And all of you, all the opposition, however, little ones; goodbye to the T-shirts, goodbye to the signs and goodbye to the demonstrations. Because you don't care about anything, and yet, who have a minister there, Mrs. Yolanda Díaz, gentlemen on the left, are still very quiet. Look, another major aggravation of the central government is the closing of the bridge power station. This morning and yesterday Mr. Sánchez - Mr. Anton Sánchez, not Pedro Sánchez - said it was not a problem of the State Government. But, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Ribera, in March 2018, said she gave 2025 as a date for the end of coal. What's the matter? The problem is to close the power stations long before what was even foreseen by the European Union, which was in 2045. To this group, ladies and gentlemen, we would like them to be with us, to oppose them in Madrid and not to allow the closure of this plant. But all of you, gentlemen, will be complicit in the closure of Galician thermal power stations, paradoxically, when Spain is buying thermal energy from Morocco. Once again, you see the lack of commitment from all of you to the Greek industry. Ladies and gentlemen, we want work, we don't want alms or subsidies. For all this, Counsellor, we would like you to give us an assessment of the central government's energy announcements which so negatively affect our industry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u443	Thank you. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u444	Mrs. Novoa, indeed, energy policy is one of the clear vectors of competitiveness of any industrial sector, of any economy, for its impact not only on industry, on energy prices, but also, logically, on the purchasing power of citizens. Therefore, this energy policy whose competence is of the State is one of the key elements that we have incorporated from the Galician Union to the Galician agenda that we have transferred to the Government itself and to citizenship itself. In this agenda in Galicia there are four energy priorities. First of all, to have a viable energy price for the electro-intensive industries. That competitive price is key to the future of the Navy, but it is also key to the future of Ferrolterra, for the future of the Costa da Morte or for the future of the Coruña, of all those companies that depend on having a competitive price to be able to compete in international markets. The second objective is the fair energy transition and, therefore, guarantee the future of the Cerceda districts, the Bridges, and allow at this moment that the bridge plant can be reactivated to give hope, give a future, give a future to bring a future to 750 families that depend on a government decision itself. The third objective was to transfer to the Government the need for renewable energies, which are key to the future of Galician rural. As examples we have here in Galicia the case of Curtis' plant, the biomass plant that is being built right now. And finally, there is the defense of the automotive sector, key to Vigo's future, key to the future of Ourense; a future from which thousands of Greeks and Greeks depend, but unfortunately, at this time the Socialist Government, supported by Podemos, supported by the Galego Nationalist Block, supported by the Joint Left Group, is leaving behind the industry in Galicia, as it is leaving behind also the workers of Alcoa, the workers of the Bridges themselves. Galicia needs a stable, competitive electric price and we believe that the Government must put aside the excuses and, therefore, approve that statute which ensures the continuity of the 5,000 jobs that depend on this sector, especially in Alcoa San Cibrao. That's the goal, too, as I told you, of giving this future to 750 Pontes families that depend on that political decision by the Government in which there is an energy policy that should respond to the needs of industry and which is currently giving back to industry, to employment and to the growth capacity we have here in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u445	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u446	Thank you, Counselor. The truth is that I, who lived as the bench on the left when ruling the People's Party in Madrid, don't even see the slightest reaction to the news these days open the main newspapers of this country. This morning the newspaper El Mundo carried the attempt to manipulate Vice President Ribera on the President of the Electric Network, who, astonished, decided not to tolerate this intrusion. But last week we also learned that this minister himself wanted to plug his minister into the National Competition Market Commission, and the entire left-hand bench, accomplices of Mr Sánchez's plugs, caladini. Look, Counselor, the left one wants to banner eco-tourism and he wants to close the thermal power stations to justify climate change; they're even able to say that Galicia is contaminated. We all know that this is not so because Galicia, with the power station of the bridges in operation, was already green, because we are leaders in wind energy, hydraulic energy, because soon a central pioneer of biomass will be inaugurated in Curtis and because there was an investment commitment from Endesa to reduce CO2 emissions. So far we were also leaders in energy production, but thanks to all of you, we will lose that condition and therefore any claim, gentlemen of the BNG, as energy surpluses. They want to be in the Champion Leage of climate change, which will lead us to be leaders in destruction of employment and wealth, all generated by unjustified extremism, which will even put us out of the European aid of CO2 compensation. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, a whole bunch of industrial disincentives that rely on the opposition of the Government of the Union, but also on the whole society that lives in these regions, which will see their standard of living diminished because of wrong political decisions. Other countries do have an energy transition plan to ten years, because no one is able to replace one industry and put another without drastically suffering employment. It's impossible! But extremism has taken over Moncloa and, unfortunately, Galicia will suffer for it. Counsellor, I think it's us and the workers alone in defending the energy industry in Galicia. And I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u447	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u448	We'd like this second shift to give us more information on the situation in Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u449	Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u450	...in renewable and climate change.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u451	Thank you. To close this question, the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u452	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Novoa, indeed, the situation in Alcoa is particularly critical. Alcoa's table in Lugo has recently been held and it's given a very clarifiable circumstance. The secretary general of Industry transferred what was the contents of the statute of electro-intensive consumers, and there was a clear and clear response from Alcoa, which moved him that content, these measures, would be insufficient, and that therefore would not be viable the production of primary aluminium in Alcoa San Cibrao. Unfortunately, at the moment, we have a silence on the part of the Government, a silence to respond to the needs of Alcoa, and, unfortunately, we also have an accomplice silence from the opposition groups of this Parliament, who are silent, who are not defending the interests of Alcoa, who are not defending the interests of the workers and who, unfortunately, can become responsible if we enter into a situation of impossibility on the part of Alcoa San Cibrao. In any case, you also ask me about the situation of climate change and the future in this context in Galicia, Spain and Europe. We believe that those who try to justify the closure of industry by climate change are wrong. Clearly, it doesn't make sense to think that we have to buy energy or goods that we need from other countries, most of them with less environmental controls. So we don't know what the answer is about the future and the alternative that our industry can have and that it can have our industrial fabric. Galicia is green, Galicia wants to be greener, but Galicia knows that this concept must also be linked to the competitiveness and opportunities of industrial fabric. We have demonstrated Galicia's commitment as a sustainable community, we are the second community with more power of electrical production from renewable sources. 66% of the electricity installed in Galicia is already renewable and therefore we are giving clear evidence of our commitment to renewable energies, our commitment to climate change and our commitment to sustainability as well. And we'll continue, we'll continue with an energy policy geared to wagering by renewable energies. We currently have about 4,000 megawatts of wind power in 187 parks. In 2019, 18 wind projects were launched, and during this year another 6 could come into operation and a repotency, which would increase 143 megawatts over the 415 megawatts that came into force in 2019. We ask the Government for new pushes of renewables, and in that context Galicia will continue to bet on a greener Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u453	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Da María Monserrat Prado Cores and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the actions planned by the Galician Board to ensure the maintenance of the 225 jobs and the future of the productive activity of the company Isidro 1952
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u454	You have the floor to Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u455	Good afternoon, Mr. Count. First of all, I would like to greet the representatives of the workers who have accompanied us since the rostrum of this Parliament. Mr. Conde, unfortunately, we have to ask you about one more company in serious difficulties, the company Isidro 1952, a continuation of the old Isidro de la Cal; an emblematic company within the marine industries nucleed around the port of Coruña that for years has been the leader in the export of fresh fish. He went from fresh fish to processed seafood, frozen, to making pre-cooked, high-value added products, and has the largest production of sushi in the Spanish state. From this expansion, the 225 workers and staff, the 100 million euros that various sources estimate what the company is worth, or the six workplaces it has, the frozen, ultra-freezing and manufacture of sea products in the polygon of the Holy Spirit, in Cambre, the trout fishworks of Carballo, Baio and Louro or the rolling producers of Lorbe, or those of Valdovino's eyeball. The information we have is that Xunta injected more than 20 million euros into the company through different routes, and despite all that potential and support, we find that in September the company presented a pre-competition of creditors and that, if not remedied, for the coming week will enter the competition. In December he announced an ERE of extinction for 136 workers and the substantial modification of wage and labor conditions for the rest, to those who are due to delay in their payrolls: a part of November, the whole of December, and soon they must be due to January. The workers are in a complicated situation, not that they don't cover their payroll anymore, but that they spend to go to work in displacement, gas oil. They denounce very complicated conditions because of the lack of raw materials to develop their activity because of the lack of control in the company, even to the extreme that they also denounce the infra-food of the fish breeders and fish farms. On January 17, the company's management announced that there was theoretically a business group that had just bought the company and that the ERE was being withdrawn and the substantial change in working conditions. Within a few days he reported that the sale was suspended and that the purchase-for-sale contract had not formalized. Everything in the middle of news questioning the solvency of the theoretical buyer businessman. So all the problems are maintained: the ERE, the contest, the defaults and a cluster of mismanagement and mismanagement, Mr. Conde. Tomorrow ends the ERE consultation period. Workers need answers because it's been months of uncertainty and fear for their future and jobs; fear of the fate of the 20 million euros of invested public money. What role is Junta playing and what is it doing to make this company viable? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u456	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u457	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Prado, thank you very much for your question and above all for your interest in the situation of this company; a company with which we are working directly from the Galician Union through the Igape, through Xesgalcia. So I also send a greeting to all the representatives of the workers, with which we are meeting and we are having a fluid dialogue precisely to identify their needs from the point of view of work, and, secondly, what can be the viability that this project can have; an important project that, as you well say, has been supported by the Unity of Galicia for many years. But I think he loses an opportunity -- and I hope that in his reply he can achieve it -- surely, at least in his first intervention, he just lost an opportunity to move clearly that the Galician Nationalist Block is next to the Galician Union in this conflict. I believe that, frankly, you have lost that opportunity, because when you speak of diswill and mismanagement I understand that you are not referring to the Council of Galicia and therefore the responsibility of the Council of Galicia is, precisely, to ensure that you identify a future for the workers and the workers. [[Laughter]] In fact, in that context, we're working on identifying a viable exit, a way out of the future. It is true that the exit must be based on realism, that we must act with responsibility and therefore know that we are faced with a situation of difficulty where we clearly have to ensure that there is a feasibility project. What surprises me is that, when you talk about the commitment of the Galician Council, it says that they had to give you the information. Surprising! Surprisingly, Mrs Prado!, because your government, the government of the Bipartite, gave this company almost 90% of these 23 million euros which were granted to you by the Galician Union. So you have the direct information, because you were sitting on the board of directors of Xesgalicia, you were running the Igape and therefore you know perfectly well that close to those 20 million euros that were granted to the Isidro de la Cal gave them the Bipartite. What is more, you should know, Mrs Prado, that, of these 20 million euros, 10 million were granted them while they were in office, being in office, Mrs Prado! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In any case, I don't come here to argue about the help of the Galician Union, because the Galician Union will be with the workers and workers, regardless of what aid was granted to it. We don't need to be given help to work directly with the workers and look for a plan of viability, and there's our commitment. I only hope that in that commitment the Nationalist Block Galego will support this government. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u458	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u459	Look, Mr. Conde, as usual, you practice the worst of policies, that of not taking responsibility, that of inoperation and that of incomplicence. Here we don't question whether you're being helped, what we want to know is what follow-up was made of those aids in eleven years of the People's Party's government, because, of course, thanks to those aids, this company is in the dimensioning of what I just talked about, and without which I would probably not be. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] In eleven years of government, at the BNG, of course you would do something more than get out of trouble. What we want to ask you is how you are exercising the powers that the Government has in industrial policy, in employment and in fisheries policy. What we're asking you to do is exercise government, because it's true that you get together with the workers, but for now all you know is that you take note. They'll be worried, but at the moment they don't know that on the side of Galicia's board if they put no solution on the table. You can't hide behind the existence of that meeting, because the situation has only got worse since you met the workers and the workers. They don't know you've put any alternatives at all. We're here to tell you what they're doing and what control they've made of that money. The obligation of you, Mr. Conde, is to remand and seek solutions, so as not to allow the loss of a company more than the industrial sector in our country, not to allow the industrial desert to increase into which Galicia is turning from north to south and east to west, so as not to allow anything behind that desert to be precarious, desertification and a diminishing Galicia. Your duty is to present an alternative and a feasibility plan, because you're the Industry Advisor in 2020, and the Bipartite no longer exists in 2009. [[Applause]] You've had responsibilities for eleven years. The obligation is to explain how the tracking of these money was done, the obligation is to put that plan of viability on the table and its obligation is to provide solutions and not to act as a commentator and as an analysis of what the Bipartite did. I'd better give you some... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u460	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Time's up. Thank you. To close this question, the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u461	Mrs. Prado, the situation of Isidro de la Cal needs rest, you don't need to be nervous. I understand perfectly well that you have a certain concern about the conditions under which EUR 20 million was granted to this company, and surely that we should also talk about this, but we haven't come here precisely to talk about the future. [[Murmurs.]] If the solution to the Galician Nationalist Block goes by nationalizing companies, as I understand your intervention, I tell you that the answer to this government is that no, not. Here we have to distinguish between what is an energy policy, which needs political decisions, and an industrial policy, which needs industrial decisions and a plan of viability that businessmen have to provide, not the Council of Galicia. That you come to tell me that I have to present a feasibility plan simply means not knowing the work that a government has, not knowing the work that a company has, and now I understand perfectly how they have made and made certain decisions in the Bipartite. By the way, 130 million euros of loans and rents failed in their management in most moments and months prior to elections. I urge you, the Galician Union will work to identify a solution and a feasibility for Isidro de la Cal. The Galician Union is not going to nationalize Isidro de la Cal, and the Galician Union is going to work with investors who can give that viability, and hence a future for the workers. You tell me we don't work with Isidro de la Cal. You should be more humble, ask for information and not value, because if you had asked for information, you would see that this government had a timely follow-up to all the actions of Isidro de la Cal and would know that in 2009 it was given a loan of 3 million euros just to give it viability at a time when they had difficulties. And you should know that in 2014 this government facilitated the refinancing of Isidro de la Cal precisely so that today we can talk about working for a future. So this government, through Xesgalicia and through Igape, has at no time stopped developing its functions, what happens is that its function is not to run the company, because managing the company will manage the entrepreneurs, and we have to keep an eye on precisely so that projects that are viable can be promoted. So we will continue to work with the company committee, we will continue to work with the owner, we will continue to work to identify whether there are possible investors who can give them viability and give them solvency to the project, and have no doubt that if there is that context Isidro de la Cal will once again count on the support of the Galician Union. I hope your party can also support that position at its own time. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u462	Thank you, Counselor. Now we discuss the last two questions and we do it in a cumulative way. Question by Mr Julio Torrado Quintela and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Union of Galicia regarding the ministerial service in the comarcas hospitals Question by Mr Aurelio Alfonso Núñez Centeno and nine other Members of the G.P. Galician populace, on the forecast by the Government of Greece for improvement performances at the Hospital de Verín
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u463	He begins by asking the question Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u464	Thank you, President. Good evening, Mr. Counsellor. For the second time today we are debating this plenary. There's a concern and concern, in general, in the citizenship that refers to a comarcal hospital in Galicia. In recent years, there has been the perception of the loss of services and the loss of professionals, which would undermine some of the services. We have recently known some eternally commented case as it deepens in that idea. The reality has been found, Counselor, and you had the intention of emptying services to the comarcas hospitals. To do so — and today we are particularly talking about paritories in the comarcas hospitals — initially used a criterion, which was the number of births. It is true that later, when they saw the number of births and the expertise of professionals -- or you were talking about the imperience of professionals -- it was not a good argument, because it was relatively simply discussed, the question is that they already looked for a bit more polyedral way of dealing with the matter and looked for other arguments. In the end, what is summed up is that when you wanted to solve the problem -- well -- the problem was solved. And that's what we asked from the beginning. We understand that comarcal hospitals have difficulty having all the services, that's obvious. But if we believe that there are a number of basic basic services that must be implemented in these services in these hospitals, the basic services. And, therefore, what we ask is about the Parisians: what is their position, the position of the Government, with respect to the Parisians of the other comarcas hospitals? Because, having seen what happened and found out what his will was, in the other comarcial hospitals they wonder: if the criterion of number of births was what he defended — unless you change criteria, which is a possibility — if that was the criterion, in the rest of the comarcial hospitals they don't meet either, some of them with data quite close to what they did close. And so that's a worry. We defend it not to be so, we defend it to be kept, but the only thing we know is that it became clear what you want to do with the birthplaces of the comarcas hospitals, because they've already done it. Now what we want to know is whether they've learned and if they're going to try again to do the same thing. If you are in your hand — I mean the Government — if you are in the hand of this government, we know what you want to do, but, do you intend to express it? will you solve any questions? Let's add one more question if you can or should you answer it properly: in the rest of the comarcal hospitals, in the paritory, will you ask the mothers who want to give birth, who have to give birth there? Because that's an interesting question from our point of view that would help — we believe — to clarify what Mr. Feijóo meant when he was talking about the Summer Hospital. Mr. Feijóo -- by the way, and to finish -- said, "My conscience doesn't allow me to solve the problem of Verín, as you say, electorally." We already know that Mr Feijó's conscience is substable by a number of votes. See what the government thinks of doing with the rest of the comarcas jamborees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u465	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Now you ask the question, Mr. Carlos Gómez Salgado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u466	Thank you, President. Counsellor, if it wasn't a frivolity to which the current government of the nation, the 23 or 24 ministers, would ask you if the Greek health has data in recent months concerning the incidence of insomnia or other sleeping problems that are suffering from the Galicians, who were already vaccinated by Mr. Pedro Sánchez before his government pact with the conglomerate of dispropositions which is mixed under the acronyms PSOE and the United States Podemos. There's no lack of concern for them or much less for us, the Greeks, of course. I won't ask. In any case, counsellor, rosy the spook, for not saying that there must be a lot of dying — or a lot of dying, Mr Bará — to hear the opposition of nightmare policy — or to hear statements like that the strategic line of the Health Council has a cutting will, when the CEO and the budgets of the Board — that is, the facts and the reality — show absolutely the opposite. We have the best health in Galicia's history, constantly evolving and improving, and President Feijóo's government has made the greatest investment in health and primary care in Galicia's history, lords. But, Counselor, for the short-sighted will of the socialists, who are stealing us from the Greeks and the Greeks, with the complicity of their partners, 370 million euros, 200 of them the famous people of VE; millions of euros precisely with which we could continue to improve health and primary care, or the social services of the most sensitive and attentionful of the people of Greece. Meanwhile, the German socialists and their partners look elsewhere, what shame and indignity! An outrage, a disgusting and infamous rapture that will not forgive the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Counselor, that the investment pact won't tell us about cuts in Galicia because it's not true, because they don't have credibility, or much less have moral authority to do so until they give us back to the Greeks and to the Greeks what belongs to us. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Almuña, after listening to this plenary session during this session as the opposition says, it is clear that you can see that they are installed in the despicableness, in the lie, in the permanent fake, in search of only political revenues. With regard to services in the comarcas hospitals, with the approval of the Galician Health Act 1/2018, for the first time, the existence of the comarcas hospitals with the creation of the health districts was shielded. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group are familiar with the work done by the German Government, developing patient care at the nearest place to their place of residence, which involved a commitment decided on by the comarcas hospitals and their services. In this sense, Counselor, I would like to ask: What improvements are planned by the Government of Greece at the Hospital de Verín?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u467	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u468	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u469	Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u470	Thank you, Mr. President. To say that later I do not answer the questions: do I expect the Galician Board to extend the decision to cut off the Parisian service to other comarcas hospitals in areas that lose population, as happened in Verín? No, no, no, no. Do you see any forecast for improvement performances at the Verín Hospital? Yes. Thank you very much, President. The comarcas hospitals are, of course, within the priorities of this government, and so we said since the reform of the Health Act, where we established districts that would give legal coverage to all the comarcas hospitals, especially some such as the case of Verín, who did not have it. In the case of patients in Valdeorras or in Verín, thousands of trips to Ourense have been prevented for years from consulting or diagnostic tests of specialties such as cardiology, digestive, endocrinology, neurology, medical oncology or rheumatology; services traditionally outside the comarcists' service portfolio at the national level, and that up to now there were very few of them offered at the university hospital in the capital, in Ourense. In addition, this new organizational model, which the new Health Act provides normative support, helps to solve the usual difficulties in many comarcas to cover their optional staff frameworks, especially in certain specialties that do not have professionals available in the labour market or opt for higher population health centres, preventing the timely absence of a specialist from affecting the daily care activity or patients. As far as the Parish University of Verín Hospital is concerned, we have made a decision — we are repeating it in the morning and afternoon — a difficult decision, a responsible decision, taken with criteria of care quality and especially safety for mothers and children and children. As I said, we don't evade responsibilities and we're always willing to explain why we're making decisions. As we indicated, this was a decision based on the criteria of gynecologists, obstetricians and pediatricians of the reference hospital, which has to cover and help cover in vacation periods or, in this case, in periods of absence of pediatricians, those needs. And it was said this afternoon even that we had extended the retirement of a pediatrician until he retired and then ran out of guards at that Summer Hospital. It was not so, this pediatrician extended the retirement age at his request, but if he requested no more guards. That's why two steps have been taken to re-create, after 2006, a pediatrical service at the Hospital de Verín. Interestingly, the party or spokesman who asks this question was responsible at that time. The advisor was the representative of the Socialist Party in the Government, and she left the hospital hospital without a pediatric service. We call for inter-intensities — as we have said — in June, again in December and now in January to be able to start that service on the third day of February with all security, with all responsibility and, of course, with the best service possible for that. And we repeat a lot of things throughout the day because it seems that the opposition, according to who asks, listens or doesn't listen. We talked about the informed consent, we talked about the coverage, we even talked about the activity of the Verín Hospital. Of course, we'll keep working to improve. But if it's true that as of today, patients who previously had no response in the area -- neurologics, oncologics, digestives, cardiology or neurology -- today have a wallet in their own neighborhood. And, of course, we will continue to approach all necessary services that are resolute, not those that serve nothing but to delay attention, to the comarcas hospitals. We're growing up in professionals. At the Verín Hospital we have more professionals than we had a few years ago; they only decreased — as I said before — managers, that there are fewer than there was at the Bipartite stage. And, of course, more activity and waiting lists I think a level -- as I say -- of Galicia's best -- and to say of Galicia's best is to say of Spain's best. I think that's the way. And we also meet the criteria of quality of attention with the Decree of Maximum Times, where the rapid pathways also make it possible for us to meet in a very limited time. New at the Vienna Hospital? I think a new important thing is, as I say, the creation of a new emergency service. At a given time, logically, with a structure of many years, changes need to be made. He broke the CAP and was very limited, apart from having access on the first floor, instead of on a low floor, which is the most suitable for care to patients who arrive with a certain urgency, or who are moved from this hospital to another reference hospital. Therefore, the new emergency will greatly increase space, both for the CAP and for the emergency itself. And logically, it's going to improve even more of a service that works I think is correct. And as I said, the base of 061 is also very important because we integrate it into the hospital. There's going to be a much faster response from the ambulance so we can do it. And, of course, we're going to continue working at the Verín Hospital and the other comarcas, we're going to continue looking for not only works, not only equipment, but also incentives for professionals who can get them to approach and want to work in the comarcas hospitals.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u471	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u472	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u473	Replica, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u474	Yes, thank you, President. Counsellor, you said, "The spokesman of the party who asks this question." I understand, listening to the previous question, but there were two of us. I know the other one didn't ask about it, he talked about what he wanted, but there were two of us — I say. Because maybe he didn't find out... yes, yes, and two different parties even. [[Mr. Health Counsellor, Vázquez Almuínña, utters words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Health Counsellor, Vázquez Almuínña, utters words that are not perceived.]] Maybe he didn't find out. [[Laughter]] This is because you didn't realize it was a health question, because no one realized it, to claim that the accumulation of this question... we all understood that there was a need to protect... It was not that there was a problem, but it is a pathetic use of the institution of the Presidency of the Galician Parliament. [[Applause]] Anyway, we're getting used to it. [[Applause]] Counselor, you say they don't intend to close. Let me give you an appreciation. We would not have to doubt their answer, but two days before the closure of the Parish Parish — two days before — was announced in this Parliament the People's Party said — literally — "they are expanding services at the Summer Hospital." Two days later they announced the closure of the Parish. Enlarging services is not to make the bathroom bigger, Counselor. You announced that you were expanding services and two days later you closed the Parish of Verín, and now you say no other comarcal berth will be closed. [[Laughter]] So from that, we ask ourselves: why then the one in Verín, if the criterion of the number of births is not met by everyone? He also failed Verin's over the years. By the way, those reports or technical possessions that you have defended, using the professionals, confronting each other, using them as chicles — the truth is that you have acted in a very sad way — all technical advances and recommendations have existed for many years and have not used them, and there are about other berths and they do not use them. Why? Because they know that in order to do those things they want to do, they have to do it carefully. You made that decision and now you've arranged, that we've known for days that it can be arranged, because you understood that you had to have that will, because closing it was a political decision, Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u475	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. For the reply, Mr. Gomez Salgado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u476	Thank you again, President. Counsellor, it is clear that if you do what is done and say what is said - that if you are doing very well - the opposition will continue to intoxicate and try to underestimate the Greek health, even though that implies the contempt of a fundamental service, no doubt, one of the most valued by the Greeks. The People's Party and the Galician Union are firmly committed to public health of quality and proximity, and this bet is proving itself to be done in the greatest investor effort of the Galician Union. With regard to the Parridor of Verín, Counsellor, the People's Group wishes to emphasize the decision to prioritize above other considerations the safety of newborns and mothers, ensuring their medical-hospital assistance in the face of any problems that might arise at the earliest moments of life of the newborn. That was a complicated decision, counselor, but responsible, to the knowledge of the electoral use that some opposition parties would make this urgent measure. But above all, Counselor, we must congratulate you on finding a satisfactory solution, which, of course, Mr. Torrado, seems not to satisfy you very much... gives the feeling that you wanted to keep messing with it. [[Murmurs.]] But, counsellor, this situation was caused by the lack of pediatricians at the Verín Hospital, who showed up with the three calls that remained deserted to cover pediatricians' squares and not because of other circumstances or other intentions, as much as some politicians are trying to tell it by lying and trying to create social alarm. Today, after the last call, the existence of pediatricians at the Verín Hospital and, therefore, the safety and hospital care of the newborn and the mothers seems to be a settled issue of what all of us, the Greeks, the ores and those in the Verín health area, feel very satisfied and congratulate ourselves. With regard to the investments and the improvement of the Verín Hospital, they confirm that the Government of Greece rejects and throws on the ground the bubbles and the false perspectives it announces one day itself and the other also the opposition to the comarcas hospitals. I wanted to ask you, finally, about these new works, about the amounts you plan to invest in the board, and tell us if you can tell us anything about the Hado Plan, the Home Care Plan, and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u477	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Gómez Salgado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u478	Well, we'll leave him there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u479	For the closure of these questions, the Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u480	The truth is, logically, we have a lot of projects for the Verin Hospital. I'm going to concretely. There are others who speak, we write, and in the profile of the contractor is the work of the emergency service, which will possibly reach the 3 million euros - an important work -. But, as you well say, we want to take Hado to the whole region, to travel, because the Galician Fairy Plan, which is the pioneer plan, has to reach all over the territory of Galicia in a short, very short period of time. And it will also be in Verin the cervix cancer squawk. It will be the second district of Galicia, after Lugo, where it started a few weeks ago. And we have more plans to keep developing. We don't use comarcas for elections. I want to remember that in each of the autonomous elections there is always a cry of war, such as: The comarcas will be closed. In 2009, in 2013, in 2014, it doesn't matter. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u481	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u482	They announce and then nothing happens, and they don't ask for forgiveness, because they could ask for it. [[Applause]] Then, electoral period, closing comarcas. The reality is, when they're done, they close the Verin Pediatric Service, and they've only been four years, that's the difference. So we're going to continue working with responsibility, trying to bring the services to citizens, with as close proximity as possible and, of course, with a difficulty that has to be said -- and that's been working for a long time -- which is the limitation of the number of professionals in some specialities. [[Murmurs.]] We're getting specialists to go to comarcas from faraway cities. Right now from Vigo or from Ourense capital are moving to comarcas, with which, we are achieving what we want to achieve, which is to strengthen the hospital services of the comarcas with specialists who see an important number of patients and not with independent services. Today we cannot consider services as independent; we need professionals to gain a broad experience in the attention of the population. And so a cancer patient in a central street of the capital of Ourense can be cared for by the same oncologist who serves a neighbor of Verín or a neighbour of the boat. That's quality of care and that's what we want to promote and we're going to continue to promote. So, of course, we'll keep working. We know this year is a difficult year. Some people want to destabilize health to get to where they want to go, but as professionals, as managers, we're going to try to keep working. Mr. Torrado, before I spoke clearly about the spokesperson... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u483	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u484	...the health of the ruling party that closed the Pediatric Service of the Verín Hospital. The People's Party was not a member of the Party, it was not a member of the Party! [[Murmurs.]] So I think it was very clear. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u485	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u486	And when you say that accumulating questions is inaccurate, the truth is, I'm telling you that we've been talking about an important subject all day, like this one. Of course, we think it's important to be here and tell the realities, the realities that have a technical support from professionals, that will continue to work. And I want to thank all the health professionals in this area today too, who are doing a great job, both those in Verín and those in Ourense capital, especially the pediatricians who covered the service during these days, because the paritory was not in operation, and they cared for the children moving many kilometers to give the quality of care they deserve. So, thanks to the professionals, thanks to the work they're doing and, of course, it's a pride to be able to represent them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-01-29-DSPG146.u487	Thank you, Counselor. Before I finished filling up, I also wanted to make two very brief considerations. One. Here there is freedom to ask questions and questions decides whether or not the Presidency accumulates them. Sometimes I may be wrong, but of course, in my heart I'm never wrong in a accumulation of questions, and I think they all go on the same subject. In the freedom to expose them then I won't come in. There's another parliament where they don't let you ask questions anymore. I'm preparing a file -- because I'm interested in being a Democrat -- about questions that the Bureau doesn't admit because it has the majority. We'll talk about it, but I don't want it to compare with this. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And here we have an absolute majority. Second. I'd like to make it clear... sorry, sorry. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, sorry. Second... please, Mr. Blanco, I'm on my second consideration and I want to say it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Today someone from the rostrum told me that I was impartial because a deputy told me that I had to remove a certain expression and I didn't tell another deputy when I was in... Impartial, exactly. Partial, partial, good. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I may be wrong, I say it many times, but I understand that it is not the same thing a Member would address himself directly to another Member and use an expression which I may despective of that he would do in another sense. For example, in the term he used today, "mascota," it's not the same thing to say "you're a pet party" saying that such a person is a pet. That's why I asked to remove that expression. It looks the same, but it's not the same. So I think you should also contribute to that and see what we're using the exchange, which in Parliament must be different, so I don't have to withdraw anything. That's what I'm asking. Nothing else, thank you very much.
