ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, so we do not proceed to its reading. He justified his inattentiveness and delegated his vote to Sandra Vázquez Domínguez for maternity. All this in the light of Rule 84.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. It therefore exercises its right to vote, which is done by Mr. Pedro Puy Fraga. And, no more, we're in the course of the agenda with the preliminary point. Promise or oath to fulfil and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute for the autonomy of Galicia of the new Member Mr. Gonzalo Trenor López
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u2	This is done by complying with Article 7 of the Regulation. And therefore I am seeking the promise or oath to abide by and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute of autonomy of the new Member and of the new Members. The formula is to answer "yes, I swear" or "yes, I promise" to the question we're going to ask them from this presidency. I'm asking you to answer the question I'm going to ask you. Mr. Jose Luís Ferro Iglesias, do you swear or promise to abide by the Constitution and the Statute of Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u3	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u4	Thank you. Don Rubén Lorenzo Gómez, do you swear or promise to abide by the Constitution and the Statute of Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u5	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u6	Thank you. Mrs. Marta María Rodríguez-Vispo Rodríguez, do you swear or promise to abide by the Constitution and the Statute of Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u7	Yes, I swear.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u8	Thank you. Therefore, when you make the promises and the oath, you acquire the full status of Members of this Parliament and Members of Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Let's move on to the first point. Accountancy of matters handled by the Permanent Parliament since the dissolution of the Chamber of X legislation on 11 February 2020
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u9	All of this is in accordance with Articles 57 and 59 of the Regulation. And I would like to thank the honourable Members who, in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia No 15 of 16 September 2020, have published the Presidency's resolution on matters dealt with by the Permanent Parliament since the dissolution of the X legislature on 11 February 2020. I stress that both Members and parliamentary groups may, in accordance with Article 57 of the Regulation, formulate objections against the validity of such agreements within 15 days of the date. If it happens, you will be given the procedure set out in point 3 of that article. So now we're going into the second point of the agenda. Request for the establishment of an inquiry committee, proposed by the honourable Members and by the G.P. Members. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the management of the Covid-19 pandemic in the homes of older people and in the centres of disability in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u10	And before we enter this debate, there are two considerations which I would like to remind all Members of the House. First, the mandatory use of the mask. We have to. You won't need to use the mask from the rostrum, but in the seats if you have to use the mask. I also say — that there are new Members and Members — that non-legislative proposals, motions and legislative texts — of course — are jointly voted upon once these are discussed. For that reason they already know that we will proceed to warn in due course through the acoustic signs of this Parliament. And we are now no longer in the second item on the agenda, the request for a commission of inquiry to be set up. There is therefore a round of the requesting parliamentary group to defend its proposal. And for that you have the floor, by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, we are living a complex and difficult time in distress to thousands of people in the midst of a pandemic that is causing economic and social damage, but especially in terms of health and human life. It's a pandemic that leaves us pain and suffering; in particular, 716 families who have lost one of their loved ones and those from here we want to send back all our support, solidarity and affection. But if the pandemic had a zero zone, it was the residences of the old age. And today, in this second grom we're living in, they're again a cause of great concern, adding to deadly victims and massive infections. Unfortunately, the figures are very clear, 45% of the deaths due to curfew-19 affected the largest users of a residence. Look, in Galicia, there are about 384,000 people between 70 and 85 years of age. Only 20,000 of them were in a residence. And the question is very simple: why, why, why, a collective of just 20,000 people supports 45% of the deaths of the vault? Why, ladies? What's wrong? Why do you repeat the situation six months later? What do we have to do to avoid it, to protect our grandparents, grandparents, our parents and mothers? To answer these questions is the purpose of the committee of inquiry proposed by the BNG, since the conviction that this Parliament has an ethical and moral obligation to clarify what has happened, to know the truth, to analyse the errors and to correct them to prevent them from repeating again. We have an obligation never to see our elders helpless again or to be abandoned by the institutions. We have to work on developing a new model of residence that guarantees the right to a decent old age. And this — let me say it — is not an option, it is an imperative, a debt to families and to the whole of society which we have from this Parliament to pay. We have committed ourselves since the BNG to this being one of the first initiatives, and here we are fulfilling our word with the whole of society and families. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, and I would also like to address the President-in-Office of the Council, of which there is only one empty bank today, and I ask you not to turn this proposal into the chronicle of an announced vote. I ask them to recapitate, not to respond to the families or to the victims or to the whole society with their parliamentary knee, that they put aside in this special legislation this practice of deaf absolutism and that for once they hear and demonstrate that Mr. Feijóo's words, when he offered dialogue and negotiation, were not just a headline that dies one day. Because what makes a country big is not the miles of highway or the kilometers of chapote or the number of vehicles; what makes a country big is its ability to generate a fair and equal society, capable of caring for the most vulnerable. A country is great when a person's life has the same value regardless of his age, where he lives or his economic conditions. Covid-19 has shown with complete cruelty that Galicia has to radically change the system of care for older people, that it is necessary to change a system of residences of the third age mostly privatized in which the right to a decent old age is business object for a handful of companies, some of them even controlled by investment funds or voitre funds. I'm going to give you just one example, that of a company like DomusVi, which is one of the multinationals that controls the state-wide residential sector and which has 17 centres in Galicia -- most of them from Sogaserso. And it's precisely Galicia—after Madrid—the second community where they have a greater presence. Well, this company operates with dozens of companies and has two reference shareholders: a British investment fund and an investment fund owned by a French billionaire. We all know what happened at DomusVi San Lázaro, DomusVi Barreiro, DomusVi Aldán or DomusVi King's Hill. What happened was that there were hundreds of people infected, sometimes with an affect of up to 80% of the people who were residents and workers, and with a dramatic consequence — because lives do not recover — dozens of people died. It's a tragic finding that you can't leave the care of older people in the hands of speculative funds that see in old age a mere commodity, a business with which to get as much benefit as possible. And I want, of course, to recognize the work of the people, the workers of those residences -- mostly precarious -- who demonstrated a dedication and dedication that were admirable throughout the pandemic, and who saved lives precisely with that dedication. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And what was Mr Feijóo's Government's role in this matter of utmost gravity? For we have seen a very clear modus operandi: first, try to circumvent responsibilities; then, improvisation, with a late and insufficient reaction and the adoption of incomprehensible measures, such as not to transfer hospitals to all contaminated residents yet there is no collapse in ICUs — a decision that does not understand either families or society. The government of Feijóo did not have the capacity to anticipate the drama of residences. But it's just that even today we're looking at how it stumbles again on the same stone and does not act to prevent it but acts when the problem is already there, when there are massive infections and even fatal victims. We, from the BNG, asked for the intervention of all private homes of older people on April 2 as a measure so that, while the pandemic lasted, the Government had control capacity over one of the weakest points in management and therefore anticipation capacity. Your decision was not to do it, and I also think it's government decision and responsibility to explain why. And in this context we have to act, we have to investigate, detect errors in order to correct them and present an alternative to a model that makes water everywhere, as is that model of privatized residence that does business with old age. And this model -- I want to say -- was that it was already making water before the coronavirus arrived. We have here a report from the September 2018 Board of Auditors, a report which, by the way, the Government of the People's Party has ignored and which was also preceded by multiple complaints by workers and workers, and also by families themselves. The report by the Board of Auditors reported that there were no staff ratios, that staff figures were not met in relation to the staff offered, deficiencies in facilities, defects and inadequate status, failure to comply with the operating protocols and nothing less than 80% of the cases and the records raised. And despite all this, what the Social Policy Council did was not to increase inspections. No, no, what he did was reduce inspections. And even in those cases where irregularities were detected, the application of sanctions did not take place or its correction was required — although in the minutes some of these offences were collected as criminal offences. But it wasn't the Board of Auditors who was the only one to report irregularities. In February 2020 — February 2020! — the representation of the workers of DomusVi San Lázaro recorded a letter in the Social Policy Council relating to the shortcomings and problems that this centre had. In this residence we all know what happened: that nothing has been done. And we saw sadly as precisely in the DomusVi of San Lázaro died one out of three residents. And this residence was already one of those that had examined the Board of Auditors on its day. But that we're in the face of a terrible privatized model doesn't mean that we're not draining public resources for this privatized system. They receive millions in public aid through concerted squares and the transfer of the management of public centers. At the BNG we are convinced and convinced that this pandemic has to mean a turning point in many areas, but in particular in everything around the care and care of older people in our country. And for that, it's necessary to know, study and investigate what's been done wrong. Because, look, there are situations that are not admissible either with old age or with new normality, and one of them is the situation that lives in senior homes. Families and the whole of society demand a commission of research to know the truth and ask us to put ourselves at work to move forward in a model that guarantees the right to a dignified old age. And in that model we want to work from BNG. Ladies and gentlemen, this commission is not against anyone. This is a commission that goes in favour of the older people of our country so that they will never again feel abandoned by institutions and never do business with their right to a dignified old age. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. [[One person from the House services comes to disinfect the stage.]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Caballero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue to live in a pandemic, in an enormous health crisis — something that we have never seen in our lifetime, something that none of us could not foresee a few years ago — in a scenario of uncertainty and health risks, in a scenario where we have to put all the public service in defense of people. This cowardly crisis is at risk to the entire population, but it especially affects our older, older people who have the greatest risks of losing their lives if they are infected or affected. And that's why the first words are in this new session by the Socialist Party of Galicia for the victims' families who have lost their lives over these months. For them goes all our esteem, our support and our fraternity — also proud of the work that our country does and the citizenship day by day protecting with caution against this risk—. We also want to say that in such critical times as this, when the need for national agreements continues to arise, it is when it is necessary to show that will of cooperation and unity with vote in the Galician Parliament. The Galician Parliament has to give voice and answer to the demands of our country, and there is an extreme sensitivity and a need for empathy on the part of the political representatives of the Greek citizenship to understand that, after 317 seniors linked to residences have died from cowardice these months, after 720 Greeks have lost their lives with the contagions, it is necessary to carry out an investigation commission to clarify the event. We have to do it because the victims' families ask us to do it, because we have to do it because we are asked by the workers and the workers in the residences, who, from the very first moment, in circumstances sometimes of lack of protection and security, have also been giving the best of themselves to protect our elders. And if the workers and the workers have made that effort, how will the Galician Parliament not have the commitment and responsibility to put themselves alongside the families of the victims, alongside the workers and the residents workers, to be able to give information, to be able to clarify what we don't know, to do research — what is information and how can we meet the challenges we have for the future? Over these six months, since the 13th of March the state of emergency had been decreed and the next day the state of alarm, we have seen at the DomusVi de San Lázaro, at the DomusVi de Barreiro, at the DomusVi de Cangas — in Aldan — in the residence of San Carlos, in Celanova or at Our Lady of Hope, in the Farixa - San Rosendo, as since the first wave there have been so many problems, because in that first wave of infection 274 residents have died. And in addition to these, it must be said that he died in those months as well as a greater number of seniors who were in residences without being detected or diagnosed with cowardice. But we have many cases -- I told some very clear here -- of citizens who lost their lives in a senior residence after they were living with another contagion for days and who are not counted because they weren't tested those days. And so -- without this seeking any revisionism but being aware of the problems, knowing that the virus attacks our older people and that we have to defend our older people -- it's a moral debt, it's dignity. Galicia needs this research and clarification exercise because if we don't honor our elders, we lose our dignity as a country. And that's why the Galician Parliament has to comply when we hear how the director of DomusVi in Aldán told us she had hoped she knew what had happened, what had happened wrong — did not know what were the mistakes when they went from one day to another of five infected to 100 infected!— or when the director of DomusVi in San Lázaro showed the surprise when he was transferred a protocol that indicated only the most valid residents to health centers, hospitals. [[Applause]] Literally he says, "Today I continue to wonder why that criterion. I don't understand. My surprise is that I am told that the protocol indicates that only the most valid ones, the autonomous ones; so we are left in the center the big dependents, the most fragile, and almost certain that the worst would evolve in the face of a contagion." And that's why we have to answer these problems. Because that first wave happened, with so much gravity, and it was revealed that there are problems in the model of residences in Galicia: structural problems, lack of control, staff problems. According to the Council's data, referred to by the report of the Board of Auditors, as the number of residences of older people in Galicia increased the number of inspections planned — from 429 to 216 inspections planned — because the number of residences increased but the number of inspectors did not increase in proportion. While the number of residences increased by 26%, the number of staff in the inspection was the same, because the records indicate that the deficiencies detected in the residences were not corrected. In the 40% of the records, there are staff incidents, and when the inspectors arrived, there were staff ratios below the legally permitted level. In the 46% of the minutes it was also found that there were deficiencies in the facilities and equipment, and in the 80% of the minutes — according to the report of the Board of Auditors — impacts on operating protocols with a lack of rigour in the records are collected. The residence model therefore needs a new approach; not only the residence model, but the model of attention to our elders. Because most of the Greeks, when they aspire to have a dignified old age, are not just thinking of being in a residence but also having other forms of support so they can live with dignity. But the Board of Auditors was still more demoralizing, because it said the Inspectorate was warning you of infringements without sanctions on social services. And the line below pointed out: "Although the centers did not correct the irregularities observed, the Inspectorate did not propose the initiation of sanctioning files." That's why we owe Galicia this investigation. Because a second wave came and we suddenly found that in the home of the Incio there are more than a hundred dead and more than ten dead; in the residence of the Hill, more than a hundred dead, and also with more than ten dead; that in the residence of Culleredo there is a need for intervention because the whole practice, 24 of the 26 residents, has the cover. And that's why we have to ask ourselves what happened, what we're doing, what failed to know how to fix it. Because we don't learn enough in the first wave, and in this second wave we still have obvious problems. Protocols failed, implementation of protocols failed, structural problems failed, inspection failed. How can we protect our elders, that the crime they have is to have the right to a decent old age and to be in residences. And that's why we have to face this exercise of dignity with our country. And I want to ask the entire Parliamentary House to open this commission of inquiry, to open it because we owe it to the Greeks and to the Greeks. And that's the position of the German socialists. We asked for the commission of investigation already in the early days, when it began to be evidenced and when the associations of families of residents in the homes of older people were asked to do so, when the problems were revealed even in residences that were decreed as clean, as security centres for our elders, and where there were also contagions. We have to learn. On 26 August, the Socialist Parliamentary Group tabled a non-legislative proposal, which is going to be debated today, to request the commission of inquiry. And the next day we also take to Parliament's Bureau the proposal that the Bureau itself could raise the need for this commission of inquiry as a matter of country. And I want to ask the President of the Galician Council — now absent — not to go to the research committee, to take the initiative, the impulse, which will be responsible for analysing the causes of the problems and also for working on the problems of the future. I think this intervention is a demonstration of willingness and goodwill, because it is undoubtedly easy to make other approaches, which we neither do nor are we going to do because we believe that in the face of the virus we all have to assume our responsibilities. And that's what the country asks us to do. But to have large country agreements, to have large bases and possibilities to find encounters in our country, we believe that this moral debt with the biggest ones who have lost their lives in residences, with more than 20,000 older Greeks who remain in residences and who are worried every day, who are afraid, who know there is an obvious risk, with those families who don't have the protocols and the staff enough to be able to make adequate safe visits and regularly to those larger ones, we are obliged to think of them. For only one greater of those who died in a shelter would already be justified an investigation, an exercise of co-responsibility by everyone in the Greek Parliament. Each of the deceased is not a number, he is a citizen, as we all know. And, therefore, from what they were and are not, and from what they are and what they have to be, we must open a responsible investigation to provide information to the country. That is the will of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and, of course, we call for the unanimity of the House, of the Greek Parliament, to bring us closer to the needs, to the challenges and also to the demands of the Greek society. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u14	Thank you, Mr. Knight. [[One person from the House services comes to disinfect the stage.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. Whenever we have to talk about residences right now that we are living on behalf of the People's Group, I want to reiterate the expression of pain and express our condolences to the families of all those who died by the pandemic, both those who lived in centres for the elderly or the disabled and in general those of all those who died in Galicia. But in this particular case I also want to express our support and our solidarity with all the professionals in the public residences who are working in Galicia doing a commendable job. And I refer to the 7% of residences that are municipal public, the 13% that are autonomous public residences, but also — as not! — to workers of the 45% of all residences in Galicia that are social-initiative entities and also to those who work in private-initiative residences — 33% remaining, and of which only, at most, 14% are not owned by small local partners but by large entities, large investment funds. Because this is the reality of our residences. And when we show our support we do it precisely because we know delivery, often uninterested, mostly driven by love to others, which is developing in many residences, in most residences — which here are simply referred to as private residences. It's true that the coward had a very hard effect on older people. We need to remember some data. 90% of those who died in Spain were over 70 years old, 70% were over 80, and the average age — their recent data — was 83.6 years old. Throughout Europe — and Spain was no exception — the incidence was much higher and more lethal in older people — who often had the situation, in addition to being accompanied by other pathologies. And therefore in this context the residences suffered especially the strong blow of the coward. It's true that the distribution of the incidence of cod in residences is very asymmetric. If we look at, for example, the number of deaths of residents, they died in their own residence or in a hospital, in a hospital, we see that residents who died in total in some autonomous communities reached 80%; for example, in Navarra or, for example, in Asturias, who had a low incidence of covid. The average in Spain is that 51.06 % of the deceased were residents of centres for adults or disabled persons. In Galicia the incidence is lower, it is 44.36%. We are certainly faced with tremendous data, but not in which Galicia is the one that highlights the seriousness of the situation in residences compared to the country's whole. If we look at residents who died in total squares, as well as in Madrid — which is the first autonomous community — 18% of residents died over the total number of residences, and in Spain 4.23%, in Galicia is 1.50%; a figure that once again reiterates that the dramatic situation, obviously, in Galicia did not occur at the levels or even at the average, and hence is far from other autonomous communities. If we see the number of deceased residents in the total population, in Madrid it reaches 0.132%, the average of Spain is 0.042% and in Galicia is 0.011%. So it's a very serious situation, which we all want to avoid, but the truth is, in Galicia, it's not the worst or the least. It's one of the communities, of the four communities, where the incidence of the cod and the lethality of the cod in the residences was lower. This also matches the general pandemic management data. Even today the Ministry publishes data and we see that the incidence of 100,000 inhabitants in Galicia is 118, compared to an average of 280 in Spain. And the incidence of 100,000 inhabitants in the last seven days in Galicia is 54.7 compared to 131 in the Spanish ensemble. I insist that the situation is serious and requires a reaction from the public authorities, demands a response from the families of the residents, requires a response from the residents themselves who remain in the residences, requires a response from the whole society. The question is how to do it, and we can — since we are going late, in relation to the constitution of the House, on the parliaments that were already formed — to analyze the alien experiences, the experiences of the parliaments where the Socialist Party and the nationalists have the majority and to see what they have done. In Spain, 11 reactivation, reconstruction and recommendation commissions were established in the autonomous communities. In addition, it was established in the Courts, in the Congress of Deputies. Four communities did nothing, one set up an information commission plus one study commission on residences — which is the case of Aragon. And in Galicia we have constituted, as in most autonomous communities, a commission of reactivation to study everything that has to do with health, social policy, cultural policy and everything that the coward has affected, as well, logically, by economic reactivation. There are only two communities where there are coexisting a general commission to analyze the incidence of the cod — including in residences — with a specific research commission on residences. They are the communities of Catalonia — where the opposition was requested and a part of the government approved it to upset the other part of the government, specifically Junts per Catalunya because it was managed by the Republican Left — and that of Madrid, where the opposition is asked again, but who supports it is one group, Citizens, because whoever manages the residences is the other, which is the Popular Group. This is the example of research committees in Spain co-existing with reactivation committees, communities in which I believe the political situation is very different. And, of course, if we can prevent these kinds of styles from being brought here, of course most of them will. We share, however, the underlying objectives that you said — at least those you declare — how to investigate deeply to detect errors and shortcomings and to ensure their correction — the Block said; or, as Mr. Knight said, to clarify what did not work in residences, constructively and proactively. That's what we agree with, but we understand that a research commission is not the best tool to work constructively. We have experience in this House. We have experience in study committees that have been very fruitful; for example, the most recent one in the fight against forest fire. And we have many examples of failure to reach agreements in research committees. That is why, when considering the Courts to do an investigation commission to analyze which were the decisions of the Government of Spain in the management of the crisis, the Block argues through its only Member who is against this commission because it is a partisan and demagogic proposal despite the fact that Mr. Pedro Sánchez made obvious errors. And the Socialist Group, through its president, says that it sees the commission inadequate to investigate the management of the pandemic being merely a distraction maneuver of Mr. Casado. If the goal is to know, as we intend, reality, to provide ideas to the House and an explanation to society, we understand that the appropriate thing is a commission of study, in which we can analyze the facts without any restriction, detect the problems that arose in the management of residences and propose improvements. For that we are open, and for that we constituted the commission last week of economic, social and cultural reactivation of Galicia. If you, moreover, still persist in the idea of setting up an investigation commission, you have the possibility that we never had in the opposition, that the opposition could constitute an investigation commission without the majority's invitation to tender, so you can still do it. But I would advise them, by responsibility, not to do so. Because if we want to work to improve the situation and explain to families what has happened and to offer the greatest of the future a better protection system, the most appropriate thing is that we agree on this issue in the new study commission for the economic, social and cultural reactivation of Galicia. Then they'll find us ready for the dialogue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u16	Thank you, Mr. Puy. [[One person from the House services comes to disinfect the stage.]] Replica from the requesting parliamentary group, Mrs Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u17	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to thank the words and support of the Socialist Group for this initiative. I would like to take a few remarks about the intervention which Mr Puy has just made on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group. I think the first thing I'd like to know is that we're talking about something that's enormously delicate. And I always do an exercise, which is trying to put myself in the skin of others. And putting yourself in the skin of others means right now thinking about what you're feeling about a person who for months couldn't see his father, mother or aunt in a residence, who one day hung up the phone and told him that that person died, that he couldn't even go to the funeral, that he couldn't even share his pain with his loved ones, and that what he hears today is that pain and that person doesn't matter because this is a half problem. This is not a half problem, it's a problem of respect for the pain of the victims, and it really seems regrettable to me. [[Applause]] It's not a media problem. You come here and tell those families -- to those over 300 families -- that like here they didn't do it as bad as Ayuso there's no problem. Of course there's a problem! There's a responsibility that the Administration has and that you can't elude behind any number, any average and no statistics, because it's a very serious, very serious problem. And we said it from the beginning, and we said it in this intervention: this commission is not against anyone. This is a commission that aims to work in favour of the truth, of what the families themselves are asking us to do, which is that we declare it happened. Because if you don't recognize mistakes, what happens is that you keep stumbling on the same rock. And this is a very hard stone because we're not talking about a problem that GDP is going up one tenth or down one tenth, we're talking about a life that is irrecoverable. So what we ask them to do is to recapitate and, of course, with regard to the pain of families and the drama they have experienced, we tell them we have to do something. I am surprised that the committees of inquiry are now being criticized here. A commission of inquiry will work if everyone and everyone who participates in it works precisely in the pursuit that it can fulfill its role. Of course, if the majority group, which ultimately has a lot of capacity about how commissions can work, instead of working for what we know the truth, works to hinder the work of that commission, then the instrument looks distorted. But the problem is not the creation of a commission of inquiry, it is the will with which you want to work on a subject -- I insist -- so sensitive. I don't know if I understand right or wrong. We from Galicia can demonstrate that politics is actually up to what society is now demanding, and I particularly care little about what happens in other autonomic parliaments. What matters to me is what happens in my country and the answer we give to our elders. That's what we need to worry about; we show that we are different and that we can give a better answer to the people of this country. [[Applause]] I don't know if the problem for you, Mr. Puy, is that you put "research commission." If that's the problem, we are what we're looking at is for us to create a specific study commission on what happened in the homes of older people and to address the model change. Because — I insist — for us the least relevant is whether we put "investigation" or "study"; the relevant is that we give an answer to what our families are demanding and, honestly, I believe that this issue is of such gravity and has such a dimension of the future that we cannot consider an appendix to another commission. It's a very serious subject, among other things, because one of the great challenges we have as a society is how we're going to change the model of care of our biggest ones, who after a lifetime of effort deserve more than abandonment by institutions. And the serious thing is that the situation of the coward persists. [[Applause]] We say it constructively, what it can't be is that the Union always goes behind the problems, because, in this case, when it goes behind the problems, those that are paying that inability to respond from the institutions are the older people, and we want to put forward a decent deal to our elders. I challenge them and, in any case, I borrow them, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, so that if the problem is "investigation" we change "investigation" for "study" but we give them the answer they deserve to the older people in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Voting of the request for the establishment of an inquiry commission
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u19	We shall vote on this request for the commission of inquiry. Close the doors, please. We vote. Voting of the request to set up an inquiry committee, proposed by the G.P. Members and Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the management of the Covid-19 pandemic in the homes of older people and in the disability centers of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u20	The creation of this investigation committee is therefore not acceptable. This vote concludes. Open the doors, please. Agenda Change
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u21	Now there's a change in the agenda and, therefore, we move on to the fourth point of the agenda, which corresponds to non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Socialists in Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the establishment of a parliamentary committee for the follow-up to the pandemic
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u22	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales was tabled. Therefore, to formulate this non-law proposition Mr. Torrado has the floor. I made a mistake before and I have to correct it. The votes of the People's Party are 41 because there is a delegated vote by Mrs Sandra that I have forgotten to account. It's therefore 41 votes in favour. Thank you for your judicial services for warning me. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u23	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you in this first LNP of this new course. Before starting — if I may, Mr President — I would like to publicly acknowledge — and I have also done so on a personal level — the work done by the outgoing adviser and his entire team, despite the obvious and notorious discrepancies we have maintained, and thank him for what, from our point of view, is surely a public service vocation, which, despite all discrepancies, was notorious. I wanted to thank him for his work because, of course, every contribution to public health is good and all the political work done with good intentions is good, and we wanted to thank him publicly and, through him, all his team. Thank you very much. Well, we are now presenting a proposal that has to do with the establishment of a follow-up committee on the pandemic. The "why" and the "what" is what we're thinking when we want to transmit why we think it's important and why we think it's important. The question is clear: we live in an exceptional situation and therefore we need exceptional measures. There is already a step forward, and there is an ongoing reconstruction commission - the parliamentary procedures are there - that we believe is important, and so we stand up for it from the very first moment. We defend the creation of three committees, regardless of the precise and formal format that can be attributed to them: on this reconstruction — which is necessary — on the residences — as we have just discussed — and on the follow-up to the pandemic. Why? Well, basically because we're already at the moment that we have to do that follow-up, because the first wave has passed. We've been working with loyalty from the very first moment, with our opposition. We have described some issues, but in general terms from our group we have been loyal to the decisions of the Government, which we understand at all times that they were difficult and hard and that it was impossible for them to always be at work, because the situation has always been new and very harsh. But still, we believe that some of the things have not been done well and we believe, moreover, that it is very possible to build a better system yet prepared for what can come, because we are faced with such uncertainty that we do not really know where we are going. The question is that we also need to strengthen long-term health. We need to be proactive and non-reactive right now, and this is what we want to propose. We also want to set up this committee on a matter of responsibility. As we have said, it is difficult for us in the face of an exceptional situation like the one we live in to make no exceptional decisions and limit the health follow-up of the pandemic to the Commission 5th of this Parliament, which has, yes, the task of working on the issue of health, but also on other very important elements. We think that only one committee of this Parliament should be discussing, in addition to other issues — I think in terms of employment, for example — social policies and health, areas where we should probably think a lot about and make a lot of decisions. We therefore believe that it is important to extend the frameworks of this Parliament within all the possibilities it offers in order to be able to hold this debate. And, moreover, one last reason why, since our group — and we are aware that it is so in all groups — we want and must be a participant in possible decisions, political positions, political debates that are relevant. These are the fundamental reasons, and we believe that they would be clearly sufficient. If we didn't build a specific commission that followed the pandemic, that would evaluate the situation, that could or would allow us to see with specific eyes what's going on, because it would be difficult to understand. But besides, about what? About what we want to deal with or what we think we can handle? There are strategies and decisions that will be not day by day — which are also essential and very important, and there is this Commission 5th and this plenary session of Parliament — but to ten, fifteen, twenty years, when — who knows what will be ours in this Parliament, probably none of us will continue around here — there must continue to be, there must be, an autonomous government and a new parliament that must also continue to make decisions. In addition to the urgency, we have to work on the long-term time perspective and it is therefore important to have a specific commission. When we talk about long-term decisions, what are we talking about? We're talking about numbers of professionals. Yesterday, the debate on the number of professionals was once again again publicized for statements — you all know — from the president of the most mediated community in all Spain. There, in Madrid, they say there are no professionals for provinces. It's not exactly like that, nor is all the truth lacking. It's true that there are areas where there are few professionals, but it's true that there are also measures to build a possibility of new professionals, to have greater human resources in the future. It is true, first of all, that there must be a distinction between medical and nursing professionals, as the President of the Community of Madrid said yesterday. It's also true that health is much more than medical and nursing professionals, and therefore it's also important to take that into account. And it's also important to keep in mind why there are some specialties and why there are others. And it's also important to note that those who hire different conditions, and that, in a labour market situation, also causes imbalances. And we must also be aware that the appetite for some specialties, for example for primary care, is smaller. And we must be aware of that. And this is an issue that we must deal with in this committee, because, for example, by talking about primary care, this must be a fundamental priority in dealing with this current situation and in order to have the prospect that ad future we must have a much stronger and much stronger primary care, because it will, in addition, bring us out to a large extent a problem like what we have. It's good to have respirators, it's good to have ICU beds, but if there's no professionals, it's going to be very difficult for us to deal with situations right. And we have, in addition, two questions that have to do with "for what." First of all, it's a question of coordination, coordination with professionals. I'm going to try to put some example on some of the subjects. Why do we transfer or coordinate with professionals? There is a serological study initiated by the Autonomic Government over the past few months of what, for example, primary professionals, who worked on it, had no prior information, and on whose second phase curiously nobody knows anything. A second phase was announced and warned of the early publication of its results — May-; that all results would be "next week" — June 10th—; that the results were already ready and only to be presented —about 20th June. And you never knew anything. We must avoid these kinds of issues because we are probably facing what was one of the biggest bluffs, and so we think it's important to have a judgment. It is important to have criteria for health areas. Today, in Galicia, there are different criteria and protocols depending on the health area, and it can be quite reasonable that this is the case; the question is why. We must also communicate to all entities and probably, as far as possible, to citizens because their criteria are different, because there are neighbouring municipalities that have different protocols depending on their health area, who decides, why, who should decide, besides who does, who should. We need to be aware of how we reported. I've checked how there are people who have received negative PCR notifications that they've never done. And I've also checked how some people have made PCR of whom they've never been notified. And on both issues: health professionals responsible for management and management offered me plausible explanations. But it's hard to have a plausible explanation that goes for the two questions; they're not worth the ad hoc explanations, but we have to have a common approach. We need to know what the protocols to infection are. I would ask a question to any Member or Member. It would be very strange if we didn't know precisely what protocol today in Galicia was in contact with a positive, it would be strange. And I could make sure that, if we all wrote in a sheet what we have to do in front of a contact with a positive, we would write different protocols. Why? Because we don't have real and contrasted information. We also have a problem with responsibility and competence. We've seen it when management was practically centralized and when it stopped being centralized. When it was centralized, we demanded autonomous capacity; when the Board had the ability to manage it, it was asking for help; when they offered the possibilities of help — such as the declaration of the alarm state — it qualified as "an alarm station". The question is that it seems that, constantly, the only objective is to confront. And we believe it is important to have an opinion on what competences we want before public health issues and what competences we believe are important to have at the state level. We need a question about information. We need an agreement on whether it is really important to have case information by municipalities. It's more: it's possible to debate whether it's good or if it's "dangerous," as the president of the board said. But if it's dangerous, why are there mayors -- let me at the moment -- of the People's Party who say they have direct contact with the Government of Galicia and announce every two or three days the number of contagions in their county? Because, then, we're faced with a discrepancy in the criteria. We have an information system problem, as no open data is offered. Galicia is offering the number of active cases every day, but not the number of contagions, which is confusing for most of the population. They publish themselves as active cases and vice versa, and that's an information problem. In short, I'm not going to talk about trackers anymore, because we have a question for tomorrow with the advisor, but this is what there are twenty and six thousand announces is also important to clarify it. Let it not be for dialogue and not for not working. The question is that we have an exceptional situation and we propose an exceptional solution, from debate and dialogue, and that we allow ourselves to have, separately from the most daily activity — always conditioned by the vault, sure — a capacity to deal with what we need in our system to deal well with what is coming, because we are facing a second wave...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u24	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u25	...but we'll probably have a third -- less, but we'll have it -- and that's going to happen in the face of possible future pandemics. That is what we are proposing today, and we ask for the support of this Parliament for this committee. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u26	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u27	Good day to all and all. I will begin by saying that the BNG will support this non-legislative proposal tabled by the Socialist Party, because it would be normal that, in such an exceptional situation as we are living in — a situation motivated by the pandemic of coward-19 — the Parliament of a country, the Parliament of Galicia, in this case, had the role in this exceptional situation. Because, in this first intervention of legislation, I have to remember, in case someone doesn't make it clear, that here in this parliament lies the popular will of the Greek people, and it should be in this parliament where the greatest relevance was to analyze the problems affecting the Greek people. To act for Parliament to have accurate information should be a priority for any political group; but far from that, the People's Party goes in the opposite direction. We have just seen it in the position that it maintained regarding the establishment of a commission of inquiry on what happened in the homes of older people. It doesn't seem to the People's Party to need to know what happened and, above all, to learn so that things don't happen again. On the contrary, the People's Party acts to disarm Parliament and make it go as inadvertently as possible. And since the BNG we believe, on the contrary, that it is necessary to discuss the social and economic measures affecting citizenship and the creation of special committees — in this case, by the special situation — to follow up the health crisis. Here we should be able to analyze, work, share the subjects, reports, proposals, contributions, diagnoses, measures and actions related to the epidemic and its consequences; because for this we have been chosen by the people of Greece: to give answers to the problems they have. And, of course, at BNG we believe that we can't take correct measures or really needed intensity if we don't know the extent of the infection and the behavior of the pandemic. We believe that it is essential to have systematic and rigorous data, and to pass on to the population as a whole confidence and veracity in these. And, of course, the Greek people right now, what they don't have is trust in the data being transmitted to them, and they don't have confidence in the truth of what is being transmitted to them. Therefore, the BNG has tabled a amendment to this non-law proposal, which we shall vote the same even if the amendment is not accepted. It is an amendment in the sense that this Galician Parliament urges the Government to end with the opacity in communicating the evolution of the pandemic and ensuring access to information on the cover-19. So, easy data clearly, transparently... what do we mean by that? Facilitate data on the number of daily cases, the number of new positives, the types of tests being performed, to how many people. Facilitate data by municipalities, facilitate historical accumulations. I mean, information that really lets you know what's going on. And we're asking for this because nothing we're demanding is happening. The Galician Union is at its head in the Spanish state in opacity with regard to the data of the covid-19. There are studies carried out by certain companies that analyse, for example, the level and quality of information hung on the official government websites of the autonomous communities, and Galicia gets zero points with regard to this analysis, gets zero points with respect to the epidemiological situation, gets zero points with respect to information about hospitals and primary care, and gets zero points with respect to tests and tracking. And I have to remember that in Galicia there are a number of 80 percent of those who don't know where they came from. It is especially the autonomous community where this happens to a greater extent. And that's why, in view of this, what you need is data. He said the spokesperson for the People's Party in the previous intervention that the situation is serious and needs answers from public administrations. It seems he needs answers from the public administrations, and this parliament doesn't have to give answers. That's the question, isn't it? This parliament should also have to give answers. A few days ago, the president of the board said in a public appearance that he thinks offering data from copper-19 infected by real-time municipalities is very dangerous, because it could cause stigma to those affected in these localities, especially in small municipalities. The truth is, they were statements that made no one indifferent. Of course, to me and BNG, no. Because, if that's the case, to establish restrictive measures by neighborhoods and municipalities, as the Galician Union is doing, aren't you stigmatizing, then, those municipalities? Because I want to remember here that on the part of the Galician Union are setting necessary restrictions in the neighborhood of the Miracle of Lugo, for example. Are you stigmatizing the Junta de Galicia the neighbors and neighbors who live in that neighborhood by establishing those measures?, or in Culleredo, or in Pontevedra, or in Verín, or in Ponteceso, or in Santiago, or in Santa Comba, or in Melide? It is really surprising that the People's Party is hiding, in this case directly the President of the Union, so as not to give the necessary information, for example, by municipalities, so that first of all the people who are in front of these municipalities have the information — who do not have it — and also for the neighbouring country to know the level of incidence of the virus in those municipalities. Because, of course, BNG defends that the Greeks and the Greeks have the right to receive information directly from the administrations and the Galician Union, and not through the media or some media that do have that information, and does not have the whole neighborhood. The German Government only publishes this data. As we say, contrary to what happens to many other governments of autonomous communities that offer through their open data websites, interactive maps and the corresponding historical series, relevant health information, which facilitates the monitoring and analysis of the pandemic, its evolution... Access to information, of course, is a right, and must indeed be guaranteed by the administrations in any circumstance; if it is possible, in situations such as the current one, even more so. Transparency is a duty of the public administrations and institutions, and the Greeks have that right to know ourselves by the administrations, not by the press. That there are studies that determine that the Galician Union is in line with -- in this case only with Extremes -- in facilitating these data is a cause of concern for the BNG, it is a cause of concern for citizenship, it is a cause of concern for many citizens, and of course we support that in this parliament we can analyze and study everything that happens around this pandemic, and we support and ask for and demand that the Galician Union end with opacity and that it adds to the transparency and information it deserves and that it is entitled to the Greeks and the Galician. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This is the second time we have discussed the creation of committees in this House. And one is shocked that the permanent rhetoric of the opposition groups of tending, dialogue and collaboration reaches the point where the opposition itself does not even agree on the committees it presents in this chamber. Because the fact is that if the group which does not have enough seats to promote such a commission had reached an agreement with the majority group of the opposition, this debate would not be necessary, because it would be substanceed in the Chair of Spokesman, rather than being brought to the full. So there is no agreement between the opposition about how to deal with this, as much as Mrs Prado tries to say that they are very much in agreement, because if we were no longer on this subject we would be debating in the forum that is legally in line with it. There is no agreement on it and, curiously, there is no agreement on the investigation commission, which the Block wanted to bring to itself knowing that the Socialist Group also wanted to sign it but that it had no signatures. So when we are talking about these issues that imply that the lack of agreement between the opposition groups leads us to three debates that were not necessary, because what we are seeing is that the opposition goes wrong in the first full of this legislation and does not even agree on how to deal with the issue of cowardice in the House. We on this -- I insist -- are going to be responsible, among other things, because we have a majority that we got after the worst of the cave pandemic has passed and that has evaluated to a good extent what the Government has done to manage the cave pandemic. And we're going to work everywhere to improve residences, to improve health, to care for those who are sick, to take more early steps as science progresses, telling us how to operate when groars appear. [[Applause]] All this of course we're going to do, we've been doing it since the crisis started. What we're not going into is demagogy. Mrs Pontón says that the statistics don't matter because it turns out that in Galicia affected by residents in residences there are 1.5 of the total, while on average Spain is 4.23. This is statistics. The dead who were missing in Galicia thanks to the fact that the residences worked much better for Mrs. Pontón, they don't care. But you don't mind — and there's the Block voting and saying it's demagogic to do a research commission in Madrid, saying that this is the demagogy of the PP — to do a research commission in Madrid to know the number of dead, where we don't even know exactly how many died in Spain as a result of the coward. There is indeed hiding in the part of the Government of Spain. So we're not going to enter that and much less into the first plenary, where we now have to meet and set up a commission in which we have to treat how we reactivate Galicia economically, how we improve health, how we improve the residency system, how we improve student attendance in classrooms to be possible in a face-to-face way; in general, how we reactivate the whole of our society and protect them from the pandemic. [[Applause]] Well, I said this — to focus on the committee that we are asked to do — I first referred to the fact that there is only one parliament in which there is an information commission, and it has a very logical explanation. Today, if you observe the agenda of this plenary session and take the agendas of all the committees that are being convened, you will see that the four PNLs that bring the opposition are about the pandemic, you will see that half of the questions — one you mentioned, one of the trackers — are to inform the Government and the pandemic, and the two questions to the president are about the pandemic; the same way are the three interpellations that they make to the Government. So the opposition, when the House is opened and works like this every day in the presence of the Government, has every possibility of having information about the Government's cowardice, evolution and performance. But besides, if there is an example of transparency in autonomous communities, that's Galician. The Health Council is reporting daily from the beginning of the pandemic of its extension, giving the number of active cases every day, with specific indication of the cases linked to the residential centers, both users and professionals, broken down by health areas, the number of patients who are in ICU and in hospital units at home, the number of patients who are already cured, the number of patients who follow up at their homes, the number of deceased, both in senior homes and in integrated hospitals or residences, and the number of PCRs held in Galicia. And all this is on the website: coronavirus.sergas.gal, where you can consult all information directed to the population, health professionals and other groups. The Education Council, since last week, has been jointly communicating the positive cases of covid-19 relating to educational centres, both in the dependent children's schools of the Social Policy Council and in the other non-university education centres dependent on the Council for Education, Culture and University. And the media have all the information about the cases of the day immediately before, both through the press release — which is public — that makes the Health Council and the part that distributes this department daily, with information from the social policy, culture, education and university councils. And every day of the activity at the educational centers in Galicia. So society and you have all the information. Just as the Social Policy Council is doing, when it reports daily on how many people, whether residents or caregivers, are infected in residences, how many are sick in residences, how many are admitted to hospitals, and communicating who dies, whether at residences or hospitals. And always, of course — as has already been said — following the medical criteria, which are the ones that decide where each of the patients is. I believe that the House has the information and that it is not necessary to be the full and commissioned that there is, in addition to the information it provides daily to the Union, to do a specific commission. You're doing it. It seems to me that it's normal, legitimate; it's the country's main concern. So there is no need for a committee, because all committees are for that, to deal with the pandemic crisis, be Commission 4a, where education is concerned; Commission 5a, where social affairs and health are going; Commission 1a, where relations with the municipalities are concerned; or Commission 8a, where the relationship with the sea world is concerned. The reality is that there is a similar commission in most parliaments, also where there is a majority of the opposition parties in this chamber, which is dedicated to reactivating the country, analysing what has happened, what is the situation and where we can walk towards the future to overcome this economic, health, social crisis as soon as possible. We have just formed it, and I again tend to hold the hand so that together in that area we can work with proper information and bring positive and realistic proposals that allow Galicia to better overcome this crisis. It's the second time I repeat this offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u30	Thank you, Mr. Puy. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u31	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank BNG's support for this initiative and try to point out some questions that were raised here by Mr Puy on behalf of the People's Group, who, after passing more than half of the intervention talking about the previous initiative, ended up calling us "demagogic", which is always curious. And our approach to the concept of parliamentaryism could be very much debated, in order to be very brief over time because we have limited times — by the way, also interventions in committees, also the number of initiatives, also the number of initiatives in the plenary, as is normal. That is why we thought that, perhaps — and it was just an absurd idea — we might also be living in a situation where we should expand Parliament's possibilities to debate a little more, perhaps! And it's not as important as what's going on to debate a little more health, not the same! Everything that's going on can be solved with a couple of plenary initiatives like this from time to time. Maybe there's no need for a commission anymore. I understand that argument and we do not share it — allow me, Mr Puy. But to sum up that whole story of ideological calling, it will allow me -- don't get angry, I know it doesn't -- two appreciations: One is of an abstract nature. Mr. President said of you — I know with affection — that you are Professor Puy, and that is correct. I come from the academic world and you're Professor Puy, but we're not your students, eh! It's not a question of broomging either. [[Murmurs.]] And secondly, a matter of subconsciousness. He said, "We are being asked to set up a commission." If the People's Group is not asked for the constitution, it is Parliament, we ask for the vote. I say it because of the sense of Parliament's ownership. I know it was imprecise and that's not the feeling, but sometimes even when you're going to make a frontal attack, it's good to nuance a little on those issues. In any case, we do believe that a specific commission is important, and we believe that it must also be outside the reconstruction committee. Why? Because the reconstruction committee has very logical, well thought-out objectives — we believe it will be when they are specified and, in addition, it has all the meaning of the world — but it does not speak of health or title. And maybe we're living a scenario where we think -- that's our position; yes, we're a little thing here -- as Guardianola said: a little thing up there -- that we're living a special, hard and difficult health situation. You'll see from our previous intervention that there has not been — there may have been some appreciation — a criticism that is not even at fault. If we're not in it! It's a follow-up talk, not even an assessment of the past. The assessment of the past, from our point of view of governments, in all government planning, of all administrative levels, they did all the good they could. Some certainly under one ideological perspective and others under another, which also has to do with how to deal with the pandemic. But, of course, everyone did their best. No one stood up in the morning — when he slept, the health officials probably didn't do it many times — wishing things were wrong. What we're saying is that in the future it's necessary to suggest what's going to happen, what's going on right now. All the examples that we put here: why are cases reported to people who don't CRP? Why are the evaluations of the protocols different depending on each health area? Why don't we really know what to do? Why are there 14-day contact protocols, another one week and another three-day protocols? Why do some people get PCR and some people don't? Why do we not really have the information of the municipalities, and can debate whether or not it is necessary? Why did Cecop stop meeting in July? Why don't we... You listed here a lot of data that you give, and I'll give you one that you don't really give: the number of daily contagiouss. Galicia does not offer the number of daily contagions, it does not. We can infer it by calculating. And also -- as they do many times -- some people can call to give it to them and not to others. And it's amazing, because it's not really... the contagion is nobody's fault, it's not that. Therefore, we, Mr Puy, believe — I believe and share with my group — that rejection so frontal or the belief that the intention of the commission is another, that it is not, or the complaint to maintain a system of rather broad opacity, in fact, we believe that this should not be the objective either. Therefore, we believe that their refusal — that there is still time for them to reformulate — is not appropriate. In any case, a simple explanation must never be used for a parliamentary debate; but — I insist — as we have limits and what we think is to extend them, in the end, if we do not expand them, we must remain on the most limited issue. Have we not experienced such an exceptional health situation so that we can assess the health situation in an exceptional way? That's our reflection. And we don't understand that you can answer that you don't. But we continue with that tender hand, which is to propose committees, debates and be able to contribute a little more. That's our tender hand...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u32	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u33	...that, despite the fact that we can be blamed as misintentioned students, we do continue to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u34	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Do you accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u35	Yeah, no problem.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u36	Thank you. He accepts the amendment of the Block Parliamentary Group. We continue. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and Mercedes Queixas Zas, on the measures to be taken by the Galician Union to ensure reconciliation in front of new grotesques and the rebound of the cover-19
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u37	Amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the People's Parliamentary Group have been tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u38	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Rodil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u39	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Previously, Mr. Puy, you said, "the dead miss." I think there are things that don't measure weight! [[Applause]] Today since the BNG we bring to this plenary issue that affects many working families in our country and that involves us all as society, even more so in the moments we are living. The pandemic caused by the coward-19 showed that the right to reconcile is still a chimera for many people in Galicia; it was already before the coronavirus and this crisis has only done more than sharpen it. The conciliation system in Galicia was and are often almost essentially schools, extra-school activities, grandparents and grandparents, and day centers if we talk about older people, dependents or people with disabilities; a weak system, which jumped through the air in this pandemic, especially during the first few months. The closure of educational centres and day centres during confinement or that older people are an extremely vulnerable group to the virus has made many workers and workers in this country very difficult to reconcile their work with the care of their children, children or dependents in charge. But this did not end, though it might look like it, with confinement. With the progressive recovery of economic activity, the return to school, the return to work, the reopening of day centres, we see how the number of infections increases, and there are new milestones that force people to keep quarantine not only positive people in a PCR, but also their direct contacts, and that returns to the urgency of taking measures to ensure reconciliation. We're seeing precisely these days after the school course has been resumed, like there's already a hundred infected students, a closed school and almost thirty lessons in quarantine. That means that many families who have returned to their jobs have to stay at home with their daughters, with their children, without the Galician Union now having no support measures for them. In addition, the formulas that the Spanish Government has crafted over all these months are clearly insufficient, and they also assume in many cases, as he did before the arrival of the coronavirus to our lives, a loss of wages for many homes that is now inexhaustible, because, in addition to a health crisis, we have a deep economic and social crisis not on top, but having been knocking on the door for many months. Let us remember that temporary incapacity is only recognised for people who give positive, their daughters, and that the alternative is time flexibility, if the company accesses, or can opt for a reduction in days, a surplus — hence a loss of wages — or taking vacations, and care is work even if it is not paid. In the same way, the State also announced the creation of a license paid by quarantine, which so far has not arrived; nothing has been known again. In any case, this is the Galician Parliament. The working families in this country can't wait for decisions in other administrations and how long the debate takes, because — I insist — many people have already asked themselves: what do I do now? They seek answers, solutions to their daily problems, and no more problems. Since the decree of health alert, the Government of the Union has published only one line of aid through the extraordinary good care, with which it intends to arrive — they said then — thirty-six thousand families and compensate for care expenses during — yes — confinement. They could only apply for a month and would not be perceived until the end of the year. The result is that only a thousand and two hundred of those thirty-six thousand families asked for it. A measure announced to the bomb and dish but — yes — that actually had a very limited and clearly insufficient scope, because — I insist — it does not solve the problems of conciliation that are emerging now, right now, right now. From July to July he did not put any measures to guarantee the right of reconciliation, which is a right of mothers, fathers, working families in this country. And, above all — which is the most surprising — does not seem to have planned to do so, because, as all of your lords will know, in the educational protocol, in their various versions that have been presented to the whole of this country, it is not mentioned once, or once, the word "conciliation"; but it appears referred to — it is quite easy in the 21st century to check this — eleven times the word "Corentine". And I wonder how we think that guards a six-year-old child. So since the BNG we have made this proposal today, which responds to the urgent need of many families right now and many others surely in the coming months, because, as much as we would like things to change quickly, the truth is that we are going to have to live with this situation much more than we would like and we would. We therefore urge the Galician Union, since the BNG, to take measures to ensure the right of reconciliation in front of the new coronavirus crones and repoints, with at least two complementary, non-exclusive measures between them; one group, economic aid and, another, the creation of a bag of caregivers or caregivers — to understand us, kangaroos — to be able to access if, for example, there is a need for help for a few hours. Since the BNG we have made it clear that it is necessary to bring to the forefront of political action, public debate, life and care, to stop conceiving care as something private, to assume that it is a collective responsibility and that administrations — all of them — must guarantee a strong network of public services that guarantee the right to reconcile, now in the urgent but also when all this happens. Not to be the schools or grandparents the only one to welcome, not for the coward, but because that's not his role. And, of course, to promote co-responsibility, because there are a lot of things that have changed with the virus, but there are others that are kept intact, and there is something that hasn't changed, on the contrary, it's worsened: the vast majority of permits, of day-to-day reductions or excesses for child care or dependent dependants are still being requested by women, more than 90%. There are many workers too, even less than some workers, who are being seen today at a crossroads: choosing between taking care of children and children or working; or many families who directly don't know how they're going to take care of their children every time there's no extra-school activities, among other things because the Galician Union continues without adopting a protocol that regulates them in front of the vault, because they've been left without a dining room, some of them dependent on the Galician Union, or without the morning service. Finished the way I started. The proposal we made today since the BNG responds to an urgent need for many Greek families right now and in the future, in the face of the coronavirus, but also when we solve this pandemic. But in the BNG we have made it clear that, in addition to the urgency, we must also talk about the importance, and that reconciliation and co-responsibility are closely linked to the working day, and that we need to go to another division of working time. Working to live, gentlemen, and not to live to work. It's time to open the debate of a thirty-five-hour working day, and we'll do it in this legislation too. I'm done. This pandemic has made many things, many things, put the life of all of us and of all of us and of all the people who are outside this camera feet up in many respects. One of the things that has been remedied with this pandemic is the priorities, the order of priorities, and since BNG we are convinced that life, health, care, ladies and gentlemen, must be the first of that list. We hope to count on the support of the House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u40	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] You have the floor, by the Socialist Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Mrs. Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u41	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Indeed, as has already been said here, before the reception pandemic one of the major problems in our society was the incompatibility between the development of family and personal life and professional life and the need to harmonise both. Finally, this health crisis has highlighted something that no one wanted to see, and this is what we want to start talking about today. Because that work-family dichotomy does not affect women and men alike. The latest CIS barometer concludes that 82% of the primary caregivers of children between the ages of 0 and 3 are mothers, 7.5% are grandmothers and only 4.8% are parents. If we adopt the IGE as a source, we have in 2017 14.85% of women were asking for a reduction in their work to care for their children under 12 years of age, 14.85% compared to 5.06% of their parents. These data, in fact, show the evidence that women are the great harmed in this system of care. Therefore, developing policies that help reconciliation has a profound impact on gender equality and on the equitable distribution of domestic burdens, but also, as is logical, on the economy and on the quality of society. The goal should be to achieve balanced participation between women and men in family life and in the labour market through cross-cutting policies. How? For with the restructuring and reorganization of labour and education systems and social resources, in order to introduce equal opportunities in employment, to vary traditional roles and stereotypes and to cover the needs of care and care; to develop a strategic plan for employment and family reconciliation and other extraordinary continence as a result of the effects the pandemic is having on the educational and social system; to bet decisively on flexibility and time rationalization; to encourage in public procurement those companies that are seeking to implement management models that allow them to achieve greater levels of reconciliation. This can be done, this can be done, it's just a matter of political will. A few weeks ago Mr. Feijóo — who is not here at the moment — gave his investment speech; it was two hours of pledges but not one single reference to real policies of equality, only two headlines, without content. One, referring to gender-based violence; he textually said, "The fight against gender-based violence must not be neglected.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh The second headline without content was conciliation, promising – and I quote from the text –: "In the coming years we will deepen the reconciliation beyond the limits of childhood school, with funds for companies to launch childcare services, more support for hiring kangaroos and a necessary reflection on schedules and flexibility.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh For when? How long are we gonna have to wait to see this? Years? We don't have them. Greek society can't wait. They already establish a package of concrete measures for conciliation and do not repeat captive measures such as those we have seen so far, in many cases inaccessible by complexes and which do not at all solve the specific and timely problems that families are experiencing today. As this health crisis lasts, it is necessary and urgent to establish itself, as the proposal that we are debating says, and also in line with the proposal that we, the PSdeG, too, present in this legislation, a package of help to conciliation in the face of new cries of coward-19. Because -- we repeat -- if we don't make things easier for families, we know who's going to give up their jobs, and we also know who's going to ask for a reduction in their day: we women. We are — it is true — immersed in an unprecedented moment, fruit of the pandemic. And, starting with the school year -- we see it -- families with minors or dependent people at their place of employment should combine work with the family, with the particularities and uncertainties of the scenario that this new situation offers. So, in view of the possibility of a contagion that obliges a quarantine or suspension of classes or closure of centres, families must face care with the labour consequences that this entails, so the demand for a response from the competent administration in Galicia is more necessary and urgent than ever, and more so when the option of reconciling child care to grandparents or grandparents actually poses a terrible risk to their health. It is also necessary to take into account the working circumstances and variability of the family nucleus, which is fundamental, since the stability of our own economy is at stake in one of the most complex times of crisis. It is therefore necessary to further strengthen the productive fabric of the country and logically, by extension, family employment reconciliation in exceptional circumstances. Therefore, indeed, and the failure of this general reconciliation plan, we consider it essential to put in place an urgent contingency plan which guarantees exceptional measures for families and for the circumstances arising from the pandemic and which serves as a real tool — and we underline the real tool — for families affected by the closure of educational centres and centres of care for dependent people, as well as in cases of families, people infected or isolated by the coward-19 who have to care for their care. In this way, and in order to give something more concrete to the text of the proposed group — that is the meaning of our amendment — from the Socialists' Parliamentary Group, we understand that, in order to solve these unforeseen consequences arising from the pandemic that affect conciliation, the self-government must, on the one hand, effectively establish a line of direct aid to facilitate the care of minors and dependent people, by the way, with agile and diligent processing. We also believe that it is necessary to develop the care economy, by promoting a home care service for children and children, to which families affected by a quarantine or closure of a classroom or school facility can urgently come. So we won't leave the children's attention to grandparents or grandparents, other family members or parents and mothers working on television, nor will we force families to seek emergency care. But in addition, we also propose to establish incentives in the form of extraordinary aid for companies that facilitate the time flexibility of their staff, to staff who have to make use of it on time because of the coward; not everyone needs or wants a reduction in their day-to-day or surplus. And I'm done. I end up stressing the need to do it now, it's an emergency, the situation demands it and we can't wait any longer. It is the duty of the public authorities to give urgent solutions to urgent problems. So, even though you're not here today either, we sincerely hope that this will be one of the first measures, if not the first one, to launch the newly created Employment and Equality Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u42	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u43	For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos Couñago has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A lot of things have changed in these weeks of pandemic, but there are some that continue exactly the same. The same criticisms continue in the same groups. Right now we were listening to the criticism that the president of the board was not present; he's ruling, he's working. Mrs. Díaz, I don't look at your group leader either, and you don't have to rule; where is he? what are you doing? Does that mean you're not interested in that subject? Why do we do demagogy this way? Why in half an hour did the promises of tender hand disappear, of coming to make a serious and rigorous criticism, and the contributions that were intended? Why are you getting your ass on the leaves? The deaths of misses, Mrs. Rodil — which seems to have disturbed her expression — are saved lives, are Welsh and Welsh that continue to live, that thanks to the good doing of our public health, the work of the workers of the Welsh residences, they continue to live and escaped to what another community in Spain was a safe death. Hundreds that were saved in Galicia didn't save anywhere. Of course, they don't measure weight, they measure lives, in the lives of those people who continue to enjoy their vital experience. [[Applause]] Your Honor, this party, this parliamentary group, the Government of Alberto Núñez Feijóo, the protection measures to the Greek families will never seem enough, but I also believe that our commitment to the well-being of those families is unquestionable. Of course, you forget the data; rather, you don't forget them, you ignore them, you don't like the data; you ask many, by the way, but you don't like them when we saw them moving here, and so you don't — because they chose to ignore it — that public squares in children's schools have increased by 97% in the years of the Feijóo Government, doubled to the 20,000 squares, and 75 children's homes were created in different rural towns in Galicia to facilitate 375 free squares in the rural region of Galicia, where it was most lacking. They forget that in 2009, when we got to the government, there were ninety municipalities that lacked any kind of service and today those municipalities were reduced to 23. They forget that sixty-five thousand families benefited from the Welcome Card, that this card can be increased by up to 25% for families living in rural areas, that for families with a third child can reach 2,400 euros a year, 3,000 if that family lives in rural areas, and that this resource can be extended up to four years for families with less resources. They forget — because they have decided to forget — the Bono Concilia, which has already benefited more than twenty-one thousand families in the last legislation and which makes it easier for the first child of any applicant in a public square to have an aid of 250 euros a month for that school; and I say the first child, because the second son and next one are free; only in one community, in Galicia, the only one, twelve thousand children and children who have already benefited from this advantage. And forgets — because you want to forget — the Bono Care, which was implemented in 2017, and forgets that during the tough phase of the pandemic we also bet on an extraordinary good care for that reconciliation that you demand for home care services, to compensate for the reduction in the daytime, to care for daytime users during their closure. All of this decided to forget it. Because one thing is that it seems to us that any of these insufficient measures, which we aspire to the most, and another thing is that you dare to talk about none of the joint planning on conciliation. That's a falsehood that we don't accept and that doesn't accept it by the Greeks, and, if you have any doubts about it, there are forty-two seats here to show you that the Greeks don't believe them, Your Honor, they don't believe them; that's the reality. [[Murmurs.]] Look, we thank — of course we like — any contribution made in the field of conciliation, but we sincerely believe that your proposal to create a kangaroo service, a public service of kangaroo, is not reasonable. We therefore believe that more must bet on effective and less effective measures. It is very good to say these things, but the reality is that it is difficult to determine how many people have to hire for that, where they are necessary — because the territorial evolution of this situation is unpredictable — for how long it will be necessary, what qualifications we require, what training they have to have, what medical decisions they will have to make. Do you really believe that if a child or a child who is in a pre-trial quarantine in the house suffers from worsening, who has to make the decision on which are the issues that are given priority is a kangaroo? We sincerely believe not, we sincerely believe that there is a better alternative, an alternative that responds to the needs of parents and children, and it is a very simple alternative: that the Government fulfils, that the Government of Spain fulfils its commitments. September 2nd: "Iglesias nuisances Montero and ensures that parents of children in quarantine and negative PCR may charge a discount.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Mr Iglesias is the vice president of Social Affairs of the Government of Spain. "The parents with children in quarantine will have a low job." The Minister of Labour, he said, on September 4, two days ago, he repeated it again. "Yolanda Díaz, a supporter of extending the curfew-19 to parents with children in quarantine.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Your Honor, we really believe that parents want to take care of and care for their own children, and in a pandemic situation, and with concern that this burden we believe there is no formula that can provide better conciliation service than a mother or father taking care of their children. Parents I don't think they trust anyone to take care of their children in their own home and therefore want to attend to them personally. And there are instruments to do this, and those instruments were compromised by the Government of Spain. And, therefore, we propose an amendment, an amendment which I think is reasonable, an amendment which pursues two clear objectives: firstly, to show our confidence that Mr. Pedro Sanchez's Government will fulfil its commitments to the needs of reconciling families. I must admit that yesterday, when I received the amendment put forward by the Socialist Group, I changed a little about the initial optimism — I must confess — because, of course, they seem to dismiss the possibility that the Government of Spain would fulfill its word. Mrs. Díaz, it's surprising, you give the fact that the Government will not fulfill its commitments, because absolutely all the proposals you make are unnecessary if the Government fulfills its commitment. And I also tell you, in this new time, I'm glad to see that there's some news. It is the first time — that I remember — that in a debate I have more confidence in the word of the Government than the Socialist Group itself; that is certainly an interesting novelty. I, at last, believe that the Government should do what it should do is move from impact to effective policies, what it should do is move from announcements to facts and what it should do is that these announcements that it does are carried out into effective measures. Measures are announced but the measures are not enough. You don't know if you've been wrong; your government has also promised equal treatment to communities; the equal treatment is not enough; 200 million EVI continue without them, 170 million incentives to meet economic goals we continue without them, 100 million employment policies we continue without receiving them, 36.3 million less than we receive in the bottom of the vault than we owned and we continue without them; 500 million euros less, but you're still out. The second objective of our amendment is to reassure the Greek families, who have to be sure that, if the Government of Spain does not comply, the Galician Union will comply and enable help so that they do not have to choose their parents between their work and take care of their children at such a difficult time, because it seems to us that this is not a fair choice. So, if these circumstances are not given, the Union will be there, it will be next to the families, as it has always been, and as it intends to remain, in spite of all the difficulties that we encounter. Because, of course, a number of resources are requested. I remind you that we're in September, arriving in October, and, of course, we have to prepare a budget. We don't know what the spending ceiling is going to be, we don't know what the advance payments the autonomous community is going to receive, we don't know what the deficit we're authorized to do in Galicia. The budgetary bases, the essential foundations for us to make a serious budget that enables us to face all these difficulties, neither are they expected. But, yes, the time has come for Christmas, the letter to the Magi kings by the opposition never fails. What's this gonna hold on to? I suppose the key group — this large group that has the BNG in Parliament, which is a unitary group but seems to have a disproportionate weight in Spanish political life — will ensure that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u45	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u46	...negotiating the budgets that provide us with these resources. When this comes, we'll be delighted, and we want to be on the family side. Meanwhile, I ask you not to confuse your hand with your hand open, which is what you're bringing here...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u47	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u48	...the hand open to continually slap a group that has fortunately obtained most of the confidence of the Greeks and the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Pazos. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Rodil Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u50	Thank you, President. I repeat again that there are things that are not measured by weight and that there are no deaths of less than 716 people, of whom 317 lived in senior residences. And I wonder what is the accepted figure for the People's Party and if you think it's acceptable, really, to bring the debate in these terms to this chamber. [[Applause]] Indeed, Mr Pazos, there are things that do not change — neither do you — nor with the coward-19, and indeed there is something else that does not change, and it is to bring the interventions prepared and especially not listen to them and try to adapt them — which is logical; I also do it, prepare them before I come to the full, but I try to adapt myself a bit too and listen to everything the groups say when they defend them. [[Applause]] To me one thing which I have made clear with your intervention, which we have also made clear to the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales with its intervention, Mr. Pazos, is the demonstration — its own intervention is — of the absolute inability of the Government of Beijóo to solve the problems of the Galicians and the Greeks. Because the response of the People's Party and Mr Peace to the problems that many people have today, even today, is: "Go back tomorrow, see if the Spanish Government solves it." [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And your speech, Mr Pazos, which shows that we have a government with a parliamentary group or supported with a very large, very large, very large parliamentary group — a strange obsession with size — we have a government supported by a very large, very large, very large parliamentary group, but the Union declares itself incompetent and unable to solve the problems of hundreds of working families in this country and — worst of all — to defend the interests of this country before the Government of Spain. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] And I also thank you for something — we have always done it; that does not change, to Caesar what is Caesar's: we thank him for recognizing that the only political force capable of conditioning the Government of the Spanish State and putting on the table the rights of the Greeks and the Greeks is the Nationalist Block Galego and the colleague Néstor Rego at Congress. [[Applause]] Thank you, really, thank you for recognizing him in your intervention. As the people who have taken the floor, who have defended the position of their groups in this debate, we have made a compromise proposal that we send to them by email and we will also facilitate the services of the House, because, indeed, we have from the BNG hand in hand — we said it from the very first moment — and we also agree. But the important part of the agreements is not handicrafts or mention them permanently, the important part of the agreements is the answer to the question why? The important part of the agreements is the content that contains -- worth redundancy. We try to incorporate those issues that seem to us to enrich our proposal, as Mrs. Díaz said in her speech, incorporate them, enrich the proposal, complement it also with the proposal made by the People's Party, including it as a further point in our initiative, which is addressed to the Government of Galicia's Central Government for approval of that State-level paid permit for mothers and parents whose children are in quarantine. But we have a lot more confidence, as you said, in the capacity, in the competences this country has and especially its Government to put solutions on the table to hundreds of problems that have a lot of working families than this country. However, with its limited self-government, it also has the capacity to provide a response and solution to problems for many families. We have much more confidence in the capacity of the Greeks and the Greeks, even of their government when they don't rule the BNG, nationalism than the People's Party. And I insist: we don't have to wait for the problems we have from outside to solve. He has the capacity, competences and resources of the Galician Union to confront them on his own. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u51	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. Mrs. Rodil, I understand that if the compromise proposal that will bring us here is not accepted, neither do the amendments tabled by the groups. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] All right. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Corina Porro Martínez and 13 other Members, on the demand of the Galician Government to the Spanish Government for the withdrawal of the limitation of staff replacement rates of the public health system in order to allow all necessary posts to be offered in order to be able to act before the pandemic of covid-19
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u52	This motion for a non-law amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and also an amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u53	To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Amigo Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u54	Good morning, gentlemen. Thank you very much, President. Let me let my first words, as a health care and as a parliamentary, be to remember and show our memory and my appreciation to the 720 Greek families whom I receive-19 seized a loved one, and also to all those who because of the pandemic could not say goodbye to their loved ones the way we are accustomed to doing so, with the closeness and the displays of affection that we need when we lose a loved one. In this dark time that we live, which we still live, we have been more conscious than ever of the weak nature and the inexorable end of our life and our body. We will never forget these terrible moments that so many and so many sick people have spent in which loneliness, disease and insufficient means have made us find people alone, without company, without support, without a word of esteem, condemned to eternal loneliness already beginning the end of their lives. The pandemic caused by covid-19 made it necessary to adopt exceptional measures in the field of human resources management, aimed at strengthening staff frames to cope with the increasing care burden derived from the covid-19. In Galicia, since the beginning of the health emergency, Sergas, always committed to health care and to people's side, has reinforced his staff with 1,771 personnel. Our autonomous community, in its firm commitment to stabilization, has continuously maintained the annual calls for public job offers since 2012, always exhausting the maximum rate of replacement of troops authorized by basic budgetary legislation. And this allowed the incorporation of about 6,000 professionals with a fixed bond to health institutions in the period from 2012 to 2019. Even though the stabilization rates and the increase of 8% for communities that, like ours, meet the deficit targets have allowed these last few years to increase the number of squares to be offered in the OP, this is not enough in a context of lack of professionals like what we have, not only in Galicia. This is not just a problem of our community, it happens across Spain and even across the European Union. That's why it's essential to improve the working conditions of human resources available for the purpose of retaining them. The elimination of the restorative rate in the issue of public health in Galicia has been and will continue to be a repeated request in this parliament in recent years. Already in March 2017, ruling President Rajoy, a non-legislative proposal of the Socialist Group was unanimously approved in this parliament, urging the Government of the State to remove from the legal system the restrictions imposed on autonomous communities by limitations to the rates of replacement of squares of the National Health System when they affect stable jobs. At the end of the last legislation, in December 2019, already with the PSOE Government, we can in the Government of Spain, again the German Parliament unanimously approved, also a non-legislative proposal from the People's Group that called for the withdrawal of the restriction of the rates of replacement of squares for the public health system. This is an old claim. Furthermore, in the current circumstances of health emergency, it is essential for the State to eliminate the replacement rate, as has been repeatedly requested, in order to be offered by each community all the posts that the care needs are demanding. I would also like to remind you that in the past month of May the councillor of Fairy, Mr. Valeriano Núñez, asked the Minister for Territorial Policy, Mrs. Carolina Darias, during a telematic meeting that they held, the elimination of the restorative rate in both health and social services. This elimination of the substitution rate would allow three thousand five hundred jobs in the public health sector to be offered in Galicia this year. And President Feijóo also asked the Central Government to eliminate the rate for health and social services OPs for this year 2020 and even if this was not enough, also for the year 2021. On the other hand, in the conclusions of the dictatorship for social and economic reconstruction adopted at the Congress of Deputies, at the point dedicated to health and public health, in relation to human and professional resources, in the motions for resolutions, and within paragraph 8, which seeks to update both the regulation and the operation in practice of the system of hiring health personnel by self-health services to end temporality and precariousness, in paragraph 8.6, you can also read the conclusion of eliminating the rate of replacement of personnel in order to end the precarious work. We are seeing that we are all asking for the same, and in the current circumstances of health emergency it is essential, more than ever, that the State, the Government of the State, the PSOE-Power Government, which is the only one who can eliminate the rate, do it. This isn't throwing balloons out, as you sometimes hear from this camera. This is essential, this has been repeatedly requested so that they can be offered by each community all posts that are necessary to meet the care needs that are being demanded. Therefore, from this parliamentary group today we present the following non-legislative proposal in full: the Galician Parliament calls on the Galician Parliament to demand that the State of Spain withdraw from the limitation of staff replacement rates of the public health system, allowing all the necessary posts to be offered in order to be able to act before the pandemic of covid-19. I hope to achieve and we all hope to achieve that favourable vote from all parliamentary groups, as it has been on previous occasions, and today, more than ever, we all know that it is essential to unlock and eliminate that rate of rest so that, among all, we can fight this new historical reality that we are living and that compels us to live with a pandemic of unpredictable characteristics that so much suffering and pain is causing all over the world. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u55	Gazas, Mrs. Friend. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u56	Thank you, President. Good day to all of you again. Good morning, Mrs. Friend. New life, old debates. Repeated request — I say you — about the replenishment rate. Agreed, repeated position. According to my accounts — which may be wrong — counting the past legislation and this time, there are nine times that we will debate and vote on the request to the Government of Spain to abolish the replacement rate for health personnel. Nine times we've been discussing it. I'm going to point out that I understand that the People's Group will also vote in favour today, because it's your proposal. Yes, yes, it's not so easy to get ahead of it, because in this same proposal that today brings -- nine, and it's going to be the third time -- do you know how many times they voted against? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Six! So, for now, half the time they voted against what they bring here today. It's not that easy! [[Applause]] Look how curious you are! [[Applause]] It's not that easy sometimes. But it is fine, because at nine times the Socialist Group will vote in favour — today the ninth —. So if it is repeated—more repeated by some than by others, it is also said. Of course, the intention politically is to change the accounts. It would be much better to change the situation. Because it's good that you've proposed a way of understanding what happened. I proposed another — which we finally agreed upon —. First of all, you say that in 2017 you approved it, and I've been asking you to give me some information that you have finally requested in Madrid that. After asking for it as two or three times, they read here a supposed letter — but no one has taught — about what to ask for. They read a letter. "No, we're sending a letter..." There'll be no problem, an entry register, a written observation... finally, some question that finds out that you, really, that 2017, when it was approved here, asked you to remove this rate of reinstatement to the Government of Spain. And when you make it clear that they asked for it and proved it, then the second question is a lot more interesting: why didn't it be done? Mr. Rajoy ruled. Why didn't you do it? And I thank you, with all sincerity and nature, who had influence in the Government, in Madrid — the president of that time was also a militant of the PPDG. Why didn't you do it? Because today they're asking for something you haven't done. It's interesting. Allow me also another reading — a second point —. One part of that proposal was forgotten, which in addition was usually all the time that you voted against -- they were able to vote by points and then they separated, but when they had to vote accumulated, not -- and that had to do with a recruitment plan. Or, translated, it is: we have eliminated the replacement rate—for what?—to be able to contract. What do you people vote for? Remove the refresh rate. What do they vote against? That, when the restorative rate is eliminated, you hire health personnel. Then you are tremendously firm in the claim. Why? Because they want to hire staff and then they want to eliminate the replenishment rate. So our proposal is — and here goes today's amendment too — we ask to eliminate the replacement rate, we work to achieve it, and when it is eliminated, we compromise the extraordinary recruitment thanks to it being eliminated. Oh, no! We want to fight the government to get rid of it, but then the hiring is another story. Of course!, then hire health professionals... man!, why? Because, of course, you ask to eliminate a replacement rate that has a goal, one!, which is to expand the number of professionals that we can hire. Well, right! Let's do it! But if you ask for something that only has a goal, normality -- see how it's not as easy as it is sometimes? -- the normal thing is that then that goal is met. You haven't met, you've never exhausted the replenishment rate, never! They put in the OPE transfer contests, they called OPE, which then never formalized, they spent years between the professionals arriving or not arriving. [[Applause]] You've never exhausted the replenishment rate. By the way — for another debate we will let it go — they never asked to increase the professionals, the MIR squares, to form family doctors and pediatricians; only with the Government of Spain — which, in addition, in the last year called for the greatest MIR in history. That's also a way to have professionals in the system. So the question is, you want to have this debate, but why? if later they never want to commit to hiring professionals. That's a very interesting first reflection. Well, a second, because the first is that this of being repeated is a little bit like this. Third reflection. You have moved here, Mrs Friend, that this was voted on in the Committee on Reconstruction, in the Congress of Deputies. In fact, it's 8.6, which I literally read: "Remove the replacement rate to end the precarious work." It seems like a logical agreement, that's basically what you're thinking here. This committee has drawn up a concluding document and had a vote, the opinion was first voted on in the committee. I'm going to read to you the groups that voted in favour of this in committee, where there was this point that you said you were defending. They say -- I think literally, and if not, correct me -- "because we all agree." Well, since we all agree, the votes in favour of the dictatorship in the committee are those of the Socialist Party, United We can, Citizens and New Canary Islands. And the PP? We had to convince them at the last minute, in the plenary, that they voted in favour, but they started voting against it. You come here, Mrs. Friend, on behalf of the People's Party to defend that we have eliminated the replacement rate, and when that agreement reaches the Congress of Deputies, you go and vote against it. It's on the BOE. [[Applause]] There's a deal. Fourth question: why do you come here to propose that we make a request for something that is already adopted as an agreement on the BOE and that when you were ruling in Madrid you never did? All right, I understand that it's a little bit to refer to that they agree with the Government of Pedro Sánchez, which can sometimes also be said. I don't always say! Please, please! no, it won't be that they always agree. No, it's okay. No, no, they shouldn't either. I mean, it's normal. I'm sorry, just in this little joke, just in this line of the BOE, you agree and you're okay, because it's a good claim. The People's Group has claimed it, especially in the last two years. The Socialist Group has always claimed it, but now we all agree. Let me remind you that you did not vote in favour of this, it was the Socialist Party, United Podemos, Citizens and New Canary Islands. So let's be a little coherent. They ask for something you didn't do, they ask for something that when you arrived in Madrid you didn't vote, they ask for something that they voted against before here, and now they're in favor, and tell us what to do if we agree. If we're always in the same place! We agree to eliminate the restorative rate for health personnel. So what's the point at the end? The question is in the account. You want to clear out the problem you have with healthcare professionals, that you don't hire them, that you have a precarious recruitment system, that Sergas has become the largest ETT in Galicia in recent years. And they want to clear it by saying that it is the blame of the Government of Spain — a novocious argument in this Government, that it is the blame of the Government of Spain. Well, you guys from that now want to transform this. But, of course, one, when you ask twice about things and answer two different things, you have that problem, you see the seams. But if it's already passed in Congress, why bring it back? It's okay, we voted for one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight and nine times. And if we bring it back in the next plenary session for the tenth time, we will vote in favour, as we are voting in favour today. We set up an amendment, yes, because it seems very interesting to take advantage of an initiative, which makes sense, to vote on an amendment -- we think it is included -- that it has, let's say, the subsequent plugin, to hire all health personnel with stable contracts and to create the new squares that we can. And when the replenishment rate is eliminated -- hopefully sooner than later -- we restate all those professionals who need the system and were eliminated by that replenishment rate. Let me get the data: if it is true that the replacement rate is maintained in the Government of Spain in different degrees depending on governments. Being generous in favour of comparative equality — not to make any trick — about 30% of the retired professionals while ruling the Socialist Party could not be restored to the system, and as long as the PP ruled, that figure doubled. So it's also true that some have charged more and further reduced the replacement rate, which is not the same for many years to 10% that has 100%. Anyway, we're gonna take that away. Our amendment proposes: we defend that, we approve your point and we include a second, which is to hire as many professionals as possible until we have that elimination and, when eliminated, hire all those who have lost. And it makes sense because, if we don't approve that, why do we want to ask to eliminate the replacement rate if it's not for hiring professionals? Or is it just for shouting against the Government of Spain? I don't think so! I don't think so! I don't think so! To whom such a thing can happen! So we understand that the amendment will be approved for you. It would surprise us enormously that you wanted to despot the Government of Spain so that the replenishment rate would be eliminated but then, please, how are we not going to hire professionals?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u57	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u58	That would make no sense. And it wouldn't make sense because you don't just want to have a debate against the Government of Spain. You want to manage. So let's hire professionals. We are going to vote in favour and hope that the amendment will be approved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u59	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[One person from the House services comes to disinfect the stage.]] For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u60	Very good day again. Today we are attending a debate in which, as I would say, my mother, by each other and the house without barrier, by each other and the house without barrier. Because unfortunately we have to re-debate on the restoration rate, which is nothing other than debate on job insecurity, and it is nothing more than debate on insufficient resources to meet public services in general, but in this case public health. And I have to start by saying and remembering that the replacement rate is only the practical application of the blind follow-up of neoliberal policies, of the policies of this savage capitalism. A repositioning rate approved and implemented by the Socialist Party and then maintained by the People's Party and which responds to that scheme, that it is neoliberalism that decides how things should be done and how many dimensions must be public services. And it goes on to the same package as the budget stability directives, which aim to undermine the public; or it goes on the same package of the change — even the house without barrier — of Article 135 of the Constitution, which aims at banks and not public services first, not the needs of most of the population. That's the reality and that's where we have to install the theme of the repositioning rate approved by the Socialist Party and maintained by the People's Party—and that was also beyond that, not only the mantivo but in 2018 he signed an agreement with the state-wide unions to impose it as a basic norm of thank-for-compliance. With which it is not only a question like the rest rate, which means a very obvious prejudice to public services, but also an invasion of competences, an invasion of powers that allowed the People's Party to absolutely no problem at that time. They didn't worry. It's not that I didn't worry about them but that it was the People's Party itself who signed this agreement that turned it into a basic rule of thank you. So it's an invasion of competence because Galicia has competences about health and skills in how it can and should organize its staff. It is a replacement rate that made in 2010, in 2011, in 2012, in 2013 and in 2014 only 10% of the remaining vacant squares could be restored. In 2015, 50% could be recovered; and from 2016 onwards, 100%. But it means that all those years, from 2010 to 2015, all those lost squares are not recovering, you can't take the contest, with which there's a loss of heavy jobs in public health in Galicia. And go ahead and the BNG will vote in favour of this initiative; indeed, it will happen again. And the BNG has been bringing in initiatives that demanded the removal of the replacement rate since the zero minute. And it's also curious that the People's Party has a selective memory and in the explanatory statement of its initiative, make reference to the times when the subject was brought here and approved. Chance!, he forgot the times BNG brought him and he also approved himself. Because — I insist — the BNG has brought this issue here on many occasions and has been voted against on many occasions as well. Indeed, one Member of the BNG, a group of the BNG in the Congress of Members with only one Member, but one Member does not forget the problems of Galicia, he does not forget to consider the problems and the solutions. And he never forgot to take the subject of the replenishment rate there, because it's collected in the dictates of this reconstruction commission, because he proposed it as amended by the Nationalist Block of Wales. By the way, there are other political organizations with many Members of the Madrid Congress who are elected in Galicia, but they are of no use to our country because they don't carry the problems there. [[Applause]] Of course, none of them raised the theme of the replenishment rate. A member of the BNG if he thought about it, and it is collected. And despite that, the BNG didn't vote in favour of the set of these measures because it had many other tremendously injured. I say it not to play with certain questions, Mr. Torrado. Well, I say that the BNG will vote for this initiative as we have done on every occasion, without nuances; because here we have often brought the elimination of the replacement rate with nuances. The BNG, without nuances: elimination of the replenishment rate, because it is a huge prejudice to the public health of our country. And despite the fact that we are going to vote in favour, we are presenting an amendment to this initiative that the People's Party brings here today. Because it's very good that you put other people's duties on them, because the People's Party as soon as it's not ruling in Madrid is very active putting other people's duties on them and not very active in working on the things they have competences and what the People's Party has to do with. And it's very good that after ten years of hearing deaf ears, as soon as he lost the Government of Madrid, the People's Party had begun to demand the elimination of the replacement rate. What the People's Party does not say is that for a few years it has acted decisively to go suppressing staff in Galicia, and that enthusiastic work has also been accompanied by a decrease in the request for MIR squares, and we could go on. What the People's Party is not doing, for example, is negotiating a human resources management plan, and that's why the BNG — I insist — presents an amendment. An amendment in which we ask for a catalogue identifying all the structural squares currently covered and with temporary appointments. We ask that this catalogue be drawn up, that all structural squares be identified, that we do not know what the situation is right now. Because the darkness around which is the situation of the squares in Sergas is total and absolute; it is not known which ones are covered with vacancies, which are covered with contracts for those two days, what is the situation of the structural squares. That's why the People's Party can do it. It's not that you can, it's that you should, that we've been pushing you to do it for years, to find out what the job situation is in Galicia. That's why we demand it here today on this initiative. A square identification system is required. The People's Party can and should do it, and today it hasn't done it either. It is necessary to know really how many squares have been covered, because here, at the parliamentary headquarters, Nuñez Feijóo himself, President of the Government, said, with a virtually different difference of days, totally different data. He testified on January 29th that there were two thousand five hundred professionals more in Sergas than when the People's Party arrived in 2009. It turns out that on the same January 29th, in a second intervention, he said it was over four thousand. And then in February he said it was three thousand and four hundred professionals who had increased in health care. It is hard to understand if during the years 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014 only 10% of the troops were dismissed, and they were not recovered, as there could be more than when they arrived at the government. But, well, the multiplication of pans and fish has occurred at some point; here the People's Party does it in the speech, so in reality we all know it's not. So, with this amendment, what we want in the BNG is that, in addition to asking for the abolition of the rest rate, with which we agree, the People's Party should do the duties of the people's party, which is to make this catalogue to know what the squares are, to summon those in a position to convene, that is, all the vacancies that have occurred since the year 2010 and to draw up this human resources management plan where the situation is collected, how many vacancies there are and what the future needs will be, because it is necessary to know what the situation is in order to be able to anticipate and act, which is what the People's Party does not have to do. Therefore, the BNG will vote as it has always done in this parliament and there where the need to eliminate this replenishment rate was discussed, which is nothing but a norm for deteriorating public services, for deteriorating public health, for eliminating professionals in public health. Today we will do it again, and we hope that the People's Party will have a sense of responsibility and not only to lay down other people's duties, but also to do what is appropriate for it to do as a government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u62	Good morning again. Thank you very much, Mr. President. I begin by thanking the support of all groups; I think that we are all going to vote in favour, I will do that. Mr Torrado - to clarify - the incorporation of the amendment by the People's Party voted in favour. What did not vote in favour of the People's Party, which voted against, was the final approval of the dictatorship, but the amendment specifically voted in favour of it. Then we have to tell the truth all, not half. And we, of course, with the elimination of this rate are talking about stabilization and recruitment, but also about stabilization. And I want to ask you a question: why don't you do it now, that you are in government, agree with the central government? So you moved several questions to me, I move that one to you. By making history and by giving some data, we will remember that the controversy about the rest rate dates back to 2009, when I plunged into a deep economic crisis, with a PSOE government, President Zapatero, if it passed from 100 percent years before 30%, down to 10% between 2010 and 2014. In December 2011 he took the presidency of the People's Party, President Rajoy. In 2015 this increased to 50% and in 2016 it rose again to 100 percent. And by continuing to give data: Galician MIR squares have increased by decision of the Galician Union, not of the Government of Spain. And by shade, I say again that the board has always exhausted the replenishment rate. It's more: up to 108 percent, with that 8% given by different councils, including that of Education. And, following the nuance, Galicia is the only autonomous community that year after year calls for public offers of annual employment. But this is not enough, this does not allow to recover all the vacant health squares lost in all these years. And as I explained in my previous speech, the pandemic caused by the coward-19 requires exceptional measures in the field of human resources management. We count on a template of excellent professionals used to work in conditions not always easy — that's the health profession — but that in this pandemic they did not spare effort and worked anywhere in unimaginable conditions. This is the reason for the urgency of bringing this initiative to plenary today. I'm not going into confrontations or discords, it's not the time. We live in dark times, immersed today in a much deeper crisis, where more than ever we must look forward and face problems together. I don't think we're here to put sticks on the wheels, except in this matter. The Greeks have chosen each one of us and our groups to represent them and our duty is to work, to find the right and the best for our community, in order to get out in the face of the worst crisis that we have in recent times. Look: here we are not to go against each other, at least I think so; we have to park all those things of "I but you less." No, we're not in those days; we're living hard and hard times, where more than ever we must add and not stay, more in matters of health, and tell truths, you didn't fall for half truths, and much less try to destroy. In September, we all passed an exam and the results were seen in the polls, the Greek people spoke. And both 47.98% of the Greeks who voted for the People's Party and allowed President Feijóo to take the fear of Galicia for the fourth time consecutively, with his 42 MPs, as well as 23.80% of the BNG voters, with his 19 MPs, or 19.38% of the Galician Socialist Party, with the 14 MPs, and even the rest of the voters who opted for parties who did not get a seat in Parliament, the whole of the Greeks is waiting for us to work and get out of the way. This is what the Greek people of us expect. [[Applause]] And to conclude, it must be remembered that public health in Galicia remains a top priority for the Government of Galicia. With regard to the amendments, I must say that with regard to the PSOE, you know that the repositioning rate is always exhausted by the Board, and what I said before: that the OPEs are convened annually, and we're not going to accept it. With regard to the amendment to amend the BNG, we would have no problem with this being so, I read: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to demand from the Government of Spain the withdrawal of the limitation of the repositioning rates of the public health system staff, as it is collected in point 7.6" — Mrs Prado — "of the Ditame approved by the Congress of Deputies with the conclusions for social and economic reconstruction, which allows to offer all the necessary posts to be able to act before the pandemic of covid-19". In the points they propose to add, we disagree, they could be part of another debate. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Friend. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We're still on the agenda. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Marina Ortega Otero and D. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the creation, after compliance with the regulatory requirements established, of a parliamentary commission of research on the facts and contagions of the Covid-19 in the homes of older during the first wave, with the arrival of the precise information on the transitions of users of Greek residences by the virus
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u64	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the non-law proposition has the floor to Mrs. Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u65	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. One of the fundamental themes that should focus on work in the coming years in this parliament is undoubtedly no attention to our elders. As we know, in recent months, because of the context motivated by the pandemic of coward-19, we have lived events that have changed our reality completely; reality in which we still find ourselves immersed in an adaptation to a new context and with the resilience that this requires so that our people can overcome it. For that, those here we have the honour to represent Greek citizenship we have to give answers to the demands we have on the part of citizenship and we have to be more than ever to the extent of the circumstances. About the residential care centers for older people fell down the slate of the worst face of this pandemic, lamenting about half — as has already been said — of the deaths by covid on these contours. The data, by themselves, never reflect the emotional context that requires the situation, since a single deceased person would justify that this parliament started a research commission on what happened in senior residences, taking into account that the competences were and are from the Board before, during and after the pandemic. [[Applause]] In no case is it to seek guilty, because society is fully aware of the complexity of this situation, but rather to clear up responsibilities and analyze the context in which the pandemic has penetrated, i.e. the starting point. And to know the starting point we must sink in the last years of management. And the best portrait was the Board of Auditors, the workers themselves in the residential sector, the specialists in the sector and the residents' families themselves. All this in knowledge, of course, of the Government of the Council of Galicia. In 2018, — it was said — the Board of Auditors detected serious irregularities and non-compliance with the regulations in the residential context. Meanwhile, the Galician Union, which through the Social Policy Council is the competent administration as such responsible for carrying out the corresponding annual inspections, what did it do? Well, when in 2010 the percentage of the centres foreseen in the inspection plans was 100 percent, it fell gradually to 39 percent. This means that as the number of private residential squares increased, the number of inspections by the Galician Union dropped. This is a fact that is inversely proportional to the responsibility the administration must fulfil. That is why the starting point is not only limited to the report of the Board of Auditors, but that the Association of Galician Residential Workers itself has been denouncing, in particular, since 2012, the irregularities and non-compliances with the regulations that seriously affect the care of our seniors, such as the non-compliance with the personnel ratio and the qualification of the latter, for example among many others. We're talking about the basic necessities of daily life for our elders, but -- no less important -- we're also talking about that top of the pyramid Maslow talked about, those emotional needs that are degraded when you live between four walls, sharing a room with an unknown or waking up at six in the morning for the toilet when the staff is scarce, and they have to adapt residents to shifts and not shifts to residents. Degrading emotional needs when a place is adjured in a residence away from your surroundings and your loved ones, when that stay takes away from everyday life, reducing itself only to the residential context. These kinds of situations, ladies and gentlemen, happen in Galicia, and with the pandemic caused by the coward, these kinds of issues have become visible to our society, when they have worsened even more because of this situation. The president of the workers' association Sonia Jalda quoted textually: "How is it possible in a single shift that one professional has to take care of the cleaning of half a hundred rooms?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh In addition, he also textually quoted something that is supposed to be very serious and which is why this would justify only this type of study and research: "There are cases of nurses who came out of a residence with cases of coronovirus to take turns in uncased residences." This is tremendously serious. Ladies and gentlemen, these kinds of cases have to be investigated, regardless of ideology or party. It's a moral duty we have with our greatest. And the first interested should be the People's Party, which is in government and has to have the need to know what happened in order to be able to implement the precise formula, the best formula, the most ideal in the immediate future. The residents' families have suffered too much in recent years, and they continue to suffer, when they have not known — as we know — at certain times when they were the protocols or even the figures, because they didn't match the officials in obtaining information at that time. Families were also asked why the Galician Union didn't facilitate data for each residence, why? The same thing we're now asking ourselves, for example, our mayors and mayors in Galicia as well, why don't they give the data for municipalities, why? The families of users were asked what criteria were determined to derive our seniors from integrated residences or intermediate centers, and why it was also delayed to allow them to go to hospitals. I think nobody forgets the letter from the director of the residence of San Lázaro, who previously named Gonzalo Caballero, in which he publicly denounced that there was an internal protocol in which it was said to be derived from people infected with enabled residences and others not, depending on the degree of dependence they had, paradoxically leaving the highest grades, the grades II and III, the most vulnerable to the virus. If the director of San Lázaro is right, why has this decision been made? And most importantly: if so, who made this decision by the competent administration? On the other hand, the president of the Galician Society of Xerontology and Hieracy, and the architect of the first integrated residence, publicly warned that it was necessary for people with contagion to leave the residences immediately, and he continues to warn. He even recommended that the families report the facts. Finally, he did not continue with the functions that he was doing after the discrepancies that existed with the administration's performance with regard to this kind of fact. These kinds of cases are justifiable if this parliament is to carry out an investigation commission so that we can know all the information and optimize our work to improve the lives of our elders. Thank you, of course, always for our heroines, those who were in direct struggle towards the virus by taking care of our seniors, the resident workers, the workers of the SAD, the workers of the day-care centres, the workers of the social services fields. Thank you for taking care of our elders at the worst moment. Thank you for doing too many hours in your work without being paid on many occasions. Thank you for exposing yourself to danger, which you also have, by the way, life and family as well as everything else. Thank you for risking your lives with small wages. And most importantly, thank you for humanizing the context and your struggle and warning for years that many things have not worked out in homes. They say that, on occasion, major crises can result in large agreements and positive elements for the next generations. This is our opportunity — we are at a key moment in history — to dignify once and for all the exercise of politics, so disenchanted in recent years, to return to the citizen's interest in political activity. And we, as servers and servers of the Greek people, must be more up to it than ever. In our hands it's solving the demands of citizenship, so I can believe that politics is necessary to improve their lives. And now we have to ask ourselves a question: how would we like to pass the last stages of our life? After everything the pandemic has shown, we must break the taboo once and for all. Most of our elders don't want to go to a residence in these conditions, they want to live in their homes. The counselor was talking about what we've been saying since our group for some time: changing the residential model, but we have to go further. What we have to change is the concept of attention to our elders, there are options and resources beyond residences. Why were aids cut off in the dependency, such as care delivery in the family environment, which allowed the family to care for the dependent? Why didn't he reinforce himself with a professional network that supported families and supervised care? And also, why not promote equality, so that it's not just a female issue? These kinds of issues, these kinds of resources, together with day centers, the activities of the socio-Community day centres, the strengthened home support service and teleassistion, can transform a silent demand once and for all and taboo. The biggest ones today are the knots tomorrow and we'll remember what they're living today. In our hand it's changing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u66	Thank you, Mrs Ortega. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u67	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all again. From the BNG go ahead we're going to support this proposal, and I'd synthesize the position of our group in two reasons: The first - we said - is that many times we believe that it is not only necessary but also essential to know what happened in the oldest residences during the first wave of the pandemic and to analyze each and every one of the decisions that were made, with a very clear objective, which also exposes the national spokesperson for the BNG a few minutes ago: correcting the mistakes made so that something like this can never happen again in this country. We also said it at the beginning of the plenary: almost half of the people who died from covid-19 in our country were users of senior residences. And it was precisely these centers that were one of the main sources of infection during the first months of the pandemic, to the point of producing in our country situations of enormous gravity like those experienced. Everyone will remember the San Rosendo de Celanova residence, the DomusVi de Cangas, the Barreiro residence or the San Lázaro residence. And the truth is that after all the living we see massive contagions re recorded in the residences, as happened in the Incio, on the King's Hill or more recently in the Culleredo. We're talking about cases where the positives have reached practically all of the resident people; 75% in the case, for example, on the King's Hill, or on the Culleredo, where twenty-one positive people from the twenty-four squares that own the residence. Something fails, ladies and gentlemen, if after all these months we see the same scenario repeated. And this is not solved with an average; we're talking about human beings, people, extremely vulnerable lives. Since the BNG we have been complaining and continuing to defend the need for private residences, all of them, immediately, to ensure that all protocols are being scrupulously carried out, that the centres have the personnel needed to care for users and that all preventive measures are taken by the entities that manage them or the entities that are holders. It must be remembered — and I insist very much on this — that only 20% of the major residential squares in this country are public. If something became clear after all these months is that one cannot go to the trailer of the coward-19, which is essential to anticipate and act with foresight and, above all, not to make the same mistake twice. I give them a specific example: on 12 August, the IGC publicly reported that in residences, both in public and private, whether it was incorporating vacation staff or covering casualties and substitutions without making a PCR test, and warned in addition to the enormous risk that this would pose to other workers as well as to users and users who work directly. The answer to that was that self-assessment was enough. Because in six months, the Galician Union didn't realize that most people infected are asymptomatic. But, yes, those responsible are the eighteen-year-olds. We see the ball in the alien eye, but it doesn't interfere with itself. [[Applause]] The families of users and users of residences but also the whole of Galician society have the right to know the truth and to analyze each and every one of the decisions that were made during the pandemic. It can't be that after all the events in this country, if you intend to pass page as if nothing happened, as if it were irremediable. Because the fact is that the coward-19 has emerged, ladies and gentlemen, in the harshest ways, the deficiencies, the deficiencies and the precarious resources of the current model of residences in Galicia. That's the second reason for the BNG to claim an investigation commission, which goes against no one, but goes for Galicia, for the older people today, but also for those who are here and we also aspire to have a dignified old age when it touches us. Analyze, therefore, the fully privatising model. I insist that 80% of the squares are private, because of the 20,000 residents in our country, only four thousand are in a public residence. And it's data from the president of the Public Attendee's Board of 22 March 2020, it's data from the Government itself. A privatization model about what you've been alerted about — as you just mentioned as well, and we already spoke about it not only in the morning but in the previous legislation — in this parliament and out of it even before the pandemic, the health emergency declaration or the state of alarm; before we knew it was that of SARS-CoV-2. Residentials, family members of users and the Board of Auditors have warned in recent years that optimal conditions were not being guaranteed in private homes. The report in its conclusions alerts you to two fundamental issues: failure to comply with staff ratios and the reduction of inspections — as indicated — by the Galician Board. I open quotes and literally quote the conclusions of that report of the Board of Auditors, which I understand here that no one will question as the supervisory authority of the Government itself. They refer — said the Board of Auditors — to "infringements in the field of personnel, mainly of the ratio of direct care personnel and the non-differentiation of functions by professional categories; inadequate use of facilities; deficiencies in operating protocols; lack of rigour of records... It was appreciated that, despite cases where the irregularities observed were not corrected, sanctions files were not initiated". It warns the Board of Auditors that, since that year 2013, "the forecast of inspection of authorized centres gradually decreases from 70% in that year to 40% in 2016". And, moreover, it emphasizes that in the acts which led to the inspection — which directly depends on the Board of Galicia and the Council of Social Policy — "the facts found may constitute infringements and sanctions in relation to social services, as defined in Articles 79 et seq. of the Law on Social Services of Galicia". However, it literally says the Board of Auditors: "It was appreciated that, despite the fact that the centres did not correct the irregularities observed, the inspection did not propose the initiation of sanctioning files." And that's to be convivial with what happens in those old residences. It wasn't just the Board of Auditors that was the only one to denounce these irregularities. As we also pointed out in the morning at the beginning of this plenary session since BNG, the DomusVi residence in San Lázaro has also been warned to inspect the Social Policy Council in February of this year of irregularities. But it was also the government's own record that these irregularities were maintained in time because the Board of Auditors also monitored them. And that residence, the DomusVi de San Lázaro, in Santiago de Compostela, has ninety-one squares arranged by the board of Galicia, of the one hundred and fifty-six totals it owns. They denounced the workers and workers at the DomusVi in San Lázaro, this February of this year, the failure to comply with the personnel ratio by users, and they also requested an inspection of facts constituting serious infringements. In the company, which offered at the service of conditions forty-six farmers, once weighing the time reduction and having seen the Single Register of Social Services Providers — including the Council of Social Policy, dependent on the board of Galicia — they were only working 41.2; eighteen cleaners offered only 12.5; reception, they said there were three, only 1.7, and in the case of doctors, of the 2.5 who said there were only 1.54. In the BNG, ladies and gentlemen — and with this end — we are convinced that this pandemic has to mean a turning point in many aspects, in many areas, but above all in care. And for that, it takes knowing, studying and investigating what was wrong to correct it, what was bad enough to change it. Because there are situations that neither in the new nor in the old nor normal are acceptable, and the situation of senior residences and everything that involves public care is one of them. The families of the users of these senior residences claim the opening of this commission of inquiry; they have the right to know the truth, they have the right to claim justice, as they have done through the judicial procedure, and also to demand reparation for all that has happened. We're going to vote in favour. And let's hope that this time, because they have the opportunity to re-cast the vote, correct it and support it. That never again in this country, really, the right of older people, of all, ultimately, and of all of us, to stay behind the business and profit of large corporations and investment funds. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, this is the third debate we have on the special committees that should be set up in relation to the pandemic of the coward; it is the second one this morning in relation to an investigation committee. I would like to point out to the House that the week after we reached agreement on the three groups, unanimously, to set up a study committee to deal with everything related to cowardice, we have been discussing Parliamentary mechanisms to deal with a question that we approved last week for the Committee on Reactivation. It seems to me to some absurd point this waste of time. It is absurd even to the point that Mrs. Pontón — who is present in the Chamber — said at the end of her speech that she would find it to be research that she was studying. It's just that the study is already in place. And he said, it's better that it's specific and that we treat health, education, economics, culture and everything else in the other commission. Well, this is unreasonable, it was an excuse for the last moment, because at the bottom of what it was, it was to bring up a debate and show discrepancies with the majority and, more surprising, also debate between the opposition. I also told Mrs. Ponton these days that we were all going to retract. I am aware that today, in fact, the groups are drawing back. And that's why, as I belong to a group that, besides, is the majority, I wonder if this morning's debate has done something proactive, that any citizen who's listening to this debate has said, "Man!" in Parliament seems to be going to work to make the country's situation better. I didn't really have a chance to hear a single positive proposal or analysis, despite the ingenious task that we all have. Do we think it's good for the House to see the opposition rival the paternity of committees? Can anyone outside understand that we're passing here half tomorrow to see if the one that comes out is that of the Block or the PSOE, which at the bottom say the same, what happens is one that presents in a way because you have six Members and another one can't introduce it because you have fewer Members? I don't see anything positive about this. And on the other hand, I am very concerned because throughout all these debates this spokesman, on behalf of the majority, has twice held the hand to work elsewhere also on the issue of residency in the reactivating commission, and none of the spokesmen — and they were several — have committed themselves to loyally collaborating to find the best solutions to the tremendous problem Galicia is experiencing. And I'm also worried about the attitudes we've seen in these debates. There were already prejudices that would even advance the alleged conclusion of an investigation commission. We heard an assessment that, of course, and taking into account that the worst of the crisis was at a pre-election moment and that was evaluated electorally, the people of Galicia end up saying they don't share much. And even they made allusions to which one was devoted to the university profession; which I'm very pleased with, as I know other members of this camera who also do. Of course, I'm not here to teach because I'm not practicing as a teacher, but it's true that what I like is that the attitude is recognized, because in life we're to learn forever. That's the first attitude anyone does in college. We are always to learn, so much so that I too am willing to learn from all Members, and I do so every day. And you can always learn and it's always useful a compass because, although you always indicate the south, for at least one knows where the north is. We always learn from all Members. But since we agree that a teacher shouldn't teach from this rostrum, I also wanted to thank him for not psychoanalyzing the others because, of course, some of us don't need any psychologist. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] In the investment speech, I called — since what we have to do here is listen — in the work of all groups, and with our commitment to do so, to work with a lot of responsibility in three dimensions: in a political responsibility, which implies not using this to derive short-term partisan benefits; in a moral responsibility, which means to address the explanations that we are given beyond ideological prejudices, and also in a factual responsibility, that is, when the data say something we must recognize that the data say that thing, and not to say that they don't say what the data say. Well, today in the debate we had examples of exactly the opposite. It is, of course, partisanism when we see that the two opposition groups do not agree to register a single request for a commission of inquiry and will see who puts the medal. Or when we left after we reached a unanimous agreement from the Speaker's Board, and the first thing they do is to say, this is what I did, it was thanks to me, and so on, when the truth was that it came out because we were all three groups agreeing. Well, it seems to me that it's trying to take advantage of an absurd way that people in the street don't understand; it's not necessary for that. I don't think there was much ideological responsibility either. Whoever preceded me in this motion on the part of the Block continues to insist, beyond any factual evidence, on ideological matters. I mean, that's not the case, there's no contradiction between private and public residences; most, 45 percent, of residences are social entities, they're private, but they're not profitable. And if we don't understand this, if we distort a reality of a lot of people who are working, not for making money, and who is giving up their lives to help those who need it, and if we incorporate it into the great Voitre funds, because we don't understand what Galicia's reality is. You are evidently looking for an ideological solution, when there is no evidence that that ideological solution is capable of changing things. [[Applause]] And finally, they deny the evidence. In this part, let me remind you that every time you say that we treat people by weight, we are seriously lacking honor, because in this group there are many people who have suffered from the virus, many families of this group and many people who know about this group suffered from the virus, and suffered like so many families in Galicia that they cannot go to pity a loved one, or they cannot attend their burial. We don't treat them by weight! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] What if we say — because it is a fact — is that Galicia has the third part of the deceased in residences of what the Spanish group has. That's a reason for satisfaction because it means that many fewer people died in Galicia in residences than in Spain as a whole, and that means -- it's evidence -- that here things were done better than in Spain as a whole. So there is a tragedy, of course there is! and of course we are with those who have suffered, of course we are! But we are also pleased that our government was able to act in such a way that in Galicia many fewer people died in residences of those who died in the whole of Spain, because I don't doubt the good faith of the rest of Spain's autonomic managers, that none of them, for sure, had any interest in him dying and much less in a residence. Why don't you guys be glad that in Galicia things are better than in the whole of Spain? The problem is not to measure, the problem is that you seem to want to deny a fact that is real and that the population has just evaluated in a very specific and very clear vote. It is that in Galicia things have been done reasonably well and that, thanks to that, many lives have been saved. Why do you deny it? [[Applause]] Why do they resort to demagogy? What good do we have to do to rebuild the country after the crisis we are experiencing using this demagogy on a day like today — I insist — in which unfortunately nothing positive will be drawn so that the reactivating Commission will at least start with a good foot? And deny more data. More inspections are being made than ever in residences. It's not true that there is a protocol that limits derivations to hospitals, sometimes confuses protocols. If it's true that it was about residences, because many of the homes that have become integrated couldn't meet the big dependents and they were derived from hospitals and not from residences, obviously. In short, they don't recognize something that's fundamental to me: in Galicia they didn't give a life for loss, they didn't hide the people who failed and we didn't have to enable an ice skating pavilion and hide there the multitude of corpses that were occurring in some territories. I am very sorry for everything that happened to Galicia, but fortunately in Galicia, thank God and also for the work of the Government, things were much better. [[Applause]] Despite all this, for the third time, on behalf of the majority, I am again holding hand to work, to acquire information, to bring experts, to receive the associations of the people affected in the Committee on Economic Reactivation which, by consensus, we created last week. Let us try to reach constructive agreements on that committee; I am sure that the country will appreciate it. Now, after the debates this morning, I also mean, on behalf of the majority, that we are aware of the mandate we have had — I insist — by that proportion of Greeks who have given a government confidence in reaching agreements, but, in any case, also in exercising its responsibility and ruling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u70	Thank you, Mr. Puy. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u71	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Puy, with all due respect, I put myself in your place and it's complicated to have to defend the non-investigation, to a research commission that is calling for citizenship. It's complex, I understand perfectly that it's complicated, but it can't be said that we're here having debates that aren't necessary in this matter. [[Murmurs.]] He said it was the third debate already, as if it were twenty! This question is the most urgent issue you have right now to deal with this parliament, the most urgent one in Galicia. [[Applause]] And I understand it perfectly because, in addition, the president of the board has been absent in all this debate, when it's the most worrying issue you have right now. [[Murmurs.]] If the People's Party decides today that it will not go ahead with the residency investigation commission, we deeply regret the opportunity we have to start this period in consensus, for the common good of our elders, and thus be able to examine in detail what happened so that we can learn from the mistakes made, because if there were mistakes, and it's nice to know it. Why don't you admit there were mistakes? The professionals themselves are saying it and putting it on the table. It's not wrong to admit mistakes, but if we have to talk about these issues, if we have to investigate them, yes, and the citizenship is asking for it and also the families. There's something that's going to happen safe, that's time. It will pass to all and for all, and hopefully we will become greater all and remember if here we did everything possible to study and investigate what happened and continue to pass through the residences. We will remember the workers who fought and fought for the rights of all and for the well-being of our elders, and who paid on occasion, yes, with their jobs and with problems in them. We will remember all the breaches that the Board of Auditors has reported on the residences in Galicia and that have given rise to this starting point where we find ourselves: unfavorable to face a crisis of this magnitude. We will remember and wonder why the People's Party, which is ruling in Galicia, did not want to investigate and study thoroughly what happens in residences. The People's Party has the majority of this camera and assumes that a lot of older people always vote them in elections. And I would ask older people or older people soon: would they like to go to a residence in these terms, in these conditions that we are living without talking about, without studying, without making proposals? It's our duty to report on things like the ones I mentioned before, that the People's Party cut off help, as on the dependency, which made it easier to make other choices before it had to accommodate itself to a residential square. Our duty is to warn. The decision is free. But politics, for good or for bad, has an impact on people's lives. What's going to happen here today will be one before and after this camera. The reasons for investigating what happened in residences are obvious. Yesterday the media echoed that Galicia is the fifth community in all of Spain which accumulates more open dilemmas in the Public Prosecutor's Office for cover issues in Galicia's residences, the fifth community! Of course there are reasons to investigate and do a study! And it's nothing bad, and not to look for guilty, never! And, of course, we do not doubt the morals, of course not, of any of the Members and Members of this House. We know perfectly well that you feel the same, regardless of color. But it is true and it is necessary more than ever to investigate and clarify what are the causes and what can be the proper formulas for dealing with this. Competition, why? Because competition has always been and will be of this autonomous government. That's why we have responsibility and moral duty not only with our elders and their families, but with the rest of our citizenship, which is demanding because they have empathy and feel pain for the facts, like all of us. And we are aware and at no time doubt — I repeat — of the personal will of Members and Members of the whole House. That's why we have to act in unity. And at the last meeting we held with the Family Association of Residential Users, the grandson of a woman who died in a residence wondered what would have happened if instead of senior residences were juvenile residences, and there was a silence. We need to deepen this issue. We must work as never to shorten this situation and always foster the same value and well-being and the lives of all people, whatever their condition or age. What you decide today will be one before and one after. And, of course, to value the work of families, of the older people who are in residences, the pain for their own, the recognition of a generation who lived very hard times when they were children and who today are paying the greatest price of this pandemic. We have to be with them. It's time to make tough decisions and get our biggest residents out of their homes when they're infected. Because they and themselves are in danger. And we must be responsible and optimize your care so as not to lose lives. Today we have the opportunity, let's make it possible for everyone and everyone. We propose this commission of inquiry to study the causes, not to accuse or seek guilty, but to seek responsibilities, yes, because there are responsibilities, and we must not be afraid of this.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u72	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u73	Of course, we hope that they will support it and change the views of the People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u74	Thank you, Mrs Ortega. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira and 14 other Members, on the request of the Galician Union to the Central Government for the establishment of a competitive electric price for electro-intensive consumers and the commitment that the industrial plan for Alcoa may opt for the European Recovery Fund
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u75	Amendments have been tabled by the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block Galego and the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u76	For the defense of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Candia has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u77	Good morning, President and Bureau members. Good day to all the comrades and comrades. Allow me also to health the members of the committee, who, I understand, will follow the discussion of this non-law proposal in this institution. And let me also send a warm hug to the six hundred and eighty-nine lumenses that are now overcoming the coward-19. Moreover, because it is the first time I take the floor in this respected institution, which thanks the nearly 90,000 lumens the trust deposited last July 12th, which allowed us to achieve about fifty-five percent of the votes and nine of the fourteen Members of my province. Nine lumens that we are going to anticipate, of course, the interests in our province and work for Lugo and Galicia. I offer them all my work and my effort not to let go. And that's why today it wouldn't be understood, being a marine, being a lumen, that hadn't fought in this debate the defense of the continuity of the jobs that primary aluminium production has in our province. In a critical week, where a few hours are left and thousands of families have been waiting for many days of the decisions of the State Official Gazette that are not coming, the media's pending news, which, of course, I would like to thank them for their follow-up and support for one of the main concerns we have in the People's Party. This non-law proposal aims to urge the Council of Galicia to urge the Government of the State to which it sets once and for all a competitive electric price for electro-intensive consumers and the commitment to opt for an industrial plan, and that it may receive funds from the European Recovery Fund. In the explanatory statement of the non-law proposal itself, I begin with the date of May 28 — a date that many sailors will never forget — the date when Alcoa announced a employment regulation file that directly affects 534 families. If we were to keep that figure, it would, of course, be a very wrong data. I recently read a study in a digital economy — which was supported by the Group of Analysis and Economic Modelling at the University of Santiago de Compostela — that made an assessment of the impact that this factory would have on our region: the direct impact, of course, on jobs and on the loss of production; the indirect effect of all that volume of activity that generates goods and services, such as the intermediate consumption that this company needs for its production; and, most importantly, that induced effect, which would, of course, come from the loss of income available to many workers and that we can already affect them: the small trade, the autonomous and, therefore, our economic fabric. That 28th of May culminated months of great uncertainty. And I'm going to read a chronology, really the chronology of a frustration. We all have the same concern, I'm sure, and not just the Members of Lugo Province. But I also have to say loud and clear that we don't all have the same responsibility. On October 31, 2018 Minister Teresa Ribera announced for the first time an electro-intensive status in Congress. On February 5, 2019 another minister, in this case Reyes Maroto, announced the status for within three months. On 11 March 2019 even the president of the Government, Pedro Sánchez, affirmed in a rally in the Coruña that in nine months his government would guarantee the future of Alcoa. On June 29, 2019, once the general elections were passed — it must be said that the existence of a government in functions was also often used as an excuse — when there was already government, it announced the imminent approval for when that was configured. And even ministers of the other partner political party of the Government — I'm referring to Yolanda Díaz, known in Galicia for his commitment to the theoretically defending of workers' rights — announced on January 20 that the statute would be passed in a few days. Finally, we saw a text of a statute, a draft statute of 20 February 2020, which did not satisfy anyone, which gave no solution. And everyone — and when I say everyone, even referring to the governments of autonomous communities of the Socialist Party or other parties — agreed on some allegations and presented them to improve the text and, ultimately, to achieve what we have been asking for so long. Now -- and at the beginning of the intervention -- we're in a crucial week. On July 30, Alcoa reported that there was a major interest. I'm referring to the Liberty House Group. It must also be said that the president of the Galician Union himself, the autonomous administration, the German Government, insists that he undertake to be part of the solution. But there is no doubt that the solution will always go through a viable and future project that guarantees the maintenance of jobs. And surely the Alcoa workers of the Coruña and Avilés know perfectly that what I'm saying is more necessary than ever, because, to date, what the Government of Spain has proposed as a solution because unfortunately it does not seem to have achieved its objective. That's why today, and of course seeking unanimous support, because it is really what the families of the Navy and the families of the province of Lugo are asking us to set a competitive electric price that passes through the approval of a statute for electro-intensive consumers, to increase to the maximum that allows the European Union compensation for indirect costs of CO2 and a new demand management system that replaces the demand for interruptability; and to show their commitment to assess that projects of a Liberty industrial plan for Alcoa factories can opt for the European Recovery Fund. We're certainly talking about the future of a territory, but we're talking about a chronology -- as short as possible and always trying to stick to the times, especially in my first intervention -- which shows that the Government of Spain in this case has been absent, has not been able to meet the circumstances and, of course, has missed the word on repeated occasions. But it's not too late yet, and I insist very much that this week is decisive. And now, of course, the effort and strength I have seen in my colleagues — with all humility, for I come here to learn — because I hope that this initiative will be replicated. The Navy is probably far from many of the comrades who are here today — and even for some reason that they are criminalized — but believe me, at this moment — and I make a special call to the mayors of the Navy, to the mayors of the Socialist Party, when Monday ends the discount time, that they don't feel like they haven't tried everything. And at this point, the petition is the same as that which you yourselves have repeatedly committed to approval. It's fair, and the Navy now needs a clear commitment from the Government of Spain. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Candia. [[One person from the House services comes to disinfect the stage.]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Seco García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, how many times do we hear today throughout the morning talking only about the election being won by the People's Party! And the really worrying thing is not to listen to them who won the elections, it seems to be the last end of the People's Party, to win the elections. It is not to manage the present and future of Greek citizenship. [[Applause]] And they hide their skills behind obsessive criticism of the Spanish Government just because it's not their color. Mrs. Candia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we are at a transcendental moment for the future of industrial activity on the San Cibrao plant and, therefore, an economic activity essential to the marine region that shines and the most five direct and many indirect workers that depend on the Alcoa factory, the former Alcoa factory, to continue to produce. The autonomous elections have passed, Mrs. Candia. You can stop looking for votes by evading your skills and responsibilities and trying to reach your shoulder so that the sale of the factory is a reality. The Alcoa workers, and with them all the neighbors of the Navy shine, expect us to be up to the circumstances. They're tired of this game of continually looking for political culprits while a multinational like Alcoa tries to close San Cibrao's facilities and relocate its production regardless of the loss of all human capital and the productive capacity that can lead to this closure. Citizens want from their politicians common solutions and efforts to ensure that the intentions of this multinational do not materialize. And they need to feel that our administrations work together so that Alcoa understands that he has to sell and that otherwise it can go very far towards another decision. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, this proposal is completely extemporaneous, in the absence of less than seven days to end the sale deadline is not the time to excuse Alcoa, as if the price of energy, in addition, was the cause of the closure of the factory. Remember how the multinational himself said he wouldn't continue his activity even if the energy was completely free. And if that case is true, Mrs. Candia, can you explain to me why it's not a problem about energy for the investor who wants to buy the factory? On the other hand, speaking of the European funds — which are not yet untied and which we still do not know how and where they are going to apply — when it takes less than a week to end the sale deadline, is completely out of place, People's Party gentlemen; except that their parliamentary group is already looking for excuses and not solutions to the problems of the marine factory workers. [[Applause]] It is not normal, Mrs Candia, these days to hear counsellor Count constantly speaking of full harmony with the central government in seeking to profit from the sale to the new investor — who has found the Minister of Industry, by the way — and now bring this proposal to plenary. Don't you speak between the Government and the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Candia? Sometimes it saddens us to have the impression that the People's Parliamentary Group is doing dirty work to a company as irresponsible as Alcoa. No more occurrences, ladies and gentlemen! The Navy district wants solutions and not empty speeches. While some worked in silence with the Ministry of Industry for the sale of the factory to a new investor and were marked as "not committed to land", others were trying to talk about impossible nationalizations from the Autonomic Administration or to excuse those who want, by business decision, to leave production and prevent others from resuming activity in San Cibrao. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we are aware of the need for the approval of the statute of electro-intensive consumers, not only for Alcoa but also for other important companies in our territory. But I want to remind you of Mr. Soria's words, Minister of the People's Party in 2012, when he promised that January 1, 2013, there was a regulatory framework for electrointensive companies like Alcoa to guarantee their competitiveness. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it passed the year 2013, it passed the year 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018, six years until the arrival of the current government of the state, without doing anything to solve this problem; six years without listening to anything about the unmet promise; six years in which they did not speak of the failure of the People's Party's Party's commitment to our land. Then Mr. Feijóo was not heard as a defender of our country's omens. You spend a strange nationalism of opportunity depending on whether or not you rule in the central government. And just now, when the current Government is finalizing the adoption of the statute — which will be ready, for our information, for this fall — a government that has two years of minority mandate, several electoral processes in the middle, a systematic blockade by the People's Party on general state budgets and a pandemic in the middle, it's when they try to undermine their commitment to electrointensive companies. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, as regards aid to offset indirect costs by CO2 emissions, it must be reminded that the People's Party has left EUR 6 million for 2018 and that this Government has added up to EUR 61 million to meet the costs of 2019, reaching the maximum that allows the European Union. The commitment to the maintenance of the state government's electrointensive industry within the regulatory framework is evident. And we need everyone to take our side to prevent the Navy plant from generating wealth. Stand by, gentlemen of the People's Party. And, as Mr Tellado told at the meeting of the Committee on Industry last Thursday, after eleven years of continued government of the People's Party with Nuñez Feijóo, after ruling thirty-three of the thirty-nine years of history of autonomy, after listening to them as the great values of the Statute of autonomy, could they make the slightest effort to read the Statute and, above all, Article 30, in which they say they have exclusive competences in industry? And, after reading it, could they be able to develop some kind of industrial policy that does something more than criticize what they do or stop doing to others and hide their skills — even in the name of Mr. Conde's current councillor? In industrial matters, 23,000 jobs were lost in the government of Nuñez Feijóo. In the past, the industrial production index fell by 2.5 % compared to 0.4 % in Spain; industrial employment in Galicia was in 2009 to 7.1% in Spain and we dropped to 6.6%. That's Mr. Núñez Feijóo's big luggage. Despite its media propaganda policy — which we pay for, by the way, all the Greeks — industry in Galicia rubs out on the People's Party. Mrs. Candia: R, Vulcano, Alcoa, Isowat, Barreras, Alfageme, Poligal, Perfialsa, Caramelo, Conservas Cuca, Pescanova, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. Yes, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, listen to him. [[Murmurs.]] You may come to the breast of your industrial policy, gentlemen of the People's Party. You in 2015 approved the bomb and dish the Galaga Galicia Industry 4.0 Competitiveness Agenda, and they had two main goals up to 2020, where we are: a growth in the industrial sector up to 20% of the German GDP and the creation of 50,000 new jobs in the industry, completely unfulfilled targets. And what about the Igape!, in a painful situation of underutilization with an execution of 160 million euros for the 360s they had for the triennium from 2016 to 2018. The pillars were placed, gentlemen of the People's Party, the Greek citizenship gave them confidence two months ago to manage their future, as I said earlier. The Socialist Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of its non-law proposal, despite being completely wrong in time. But they approve our amendment and put themselves in line with the Government of the Council of Galicia — which, of course, they must not speak to — on a common front with the Government of the State to demand from Alcoa the sale of the San Cibrao factory. And they make an industrial plan to ensure the future of a region such as Marina, Mrs Candia, who needs policies that make possible the establishment of new companies and the continuity of current ones. Because, otherwise, the only thing that will remain in the memories of the Greeks of Mr. Feijóo's politics is the announcement of the bomb and plate of a construction of twenty ships for Barreras and a logistics base in Punta Langosteira of Pemex, from which we never knew anything except the situation of the companies that Mr. Feijóo had in that announcement with directors who all ended up being charged with corruption. And almost, almost, to do this, you better not do anything, gentlemen of the People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u80	Thank you, Mr. Seco. [[One person from the House services comes to disinfect the stage.]] For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u81	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. First of all, I wanted to send in the name of the Galego Nationalist Block words of recognition, of encouragement and encouragement to the workers and alcoa workers who were cutting A-6 this morning with barricades to protest for their situation; and also, in particular, to the workers of the auxiliary industry — who are often forgotten in the debate — that tomorrow will begin an indefinite strike and that in this case, although we use the word "help", we are all aware that in fact they are also direct workers, because, if alcohol is closed, they will be the first to fall. [[Applause]] We know, indeed, that this week is crucial, that what happens in the next few days will unfortunately determine the future not only of the Navy, not only of Lugo, but of all our country. We know that. And that's why, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, even though we don't have too much hope placed in you, it's pretty unfortunate that you continue here with your strategy of permanent self-exculpation, which they always practice on this subject and, by extension, all those who have to do with the industrial and energy problems of this country. It has already been symptomatic, indeed — as was said here — that you have directly addressed the word "industry" of the Greek Government councils at a time when in our country, first, we are in the worst industrial crisis of our recent history — is Alcohol, but there are many more examples— and in which, second, we are experiencing an unprecedented pandemic that will have brutal consequences, indeed, in the health field, in the human sphere and in the field directly related to social policy, but that will also be one before and after another on the path that continues our economic and productive model. And you do what you basically do is practice the ostrich strategy and come here with the speech to see if they find someone to blame. And look, we're telling him again: from the Galician Nationalist Block, critical of the central government, when it's done, everything! And it must also be said that in this matter it seems that they have endeavoured to do things really wrong. But what we also have to put on the table is the whole story, and also the issues that are the responsibility of the People's Party. Indeed, Mrs. Candia and the ladies of the People's Party in their explanatory statement reported many dates and many events, but the stories must be told in their entirety. And it's also very important to see how this all started. I don't know if you remember the year 1998, if you remember the hemerothec and if you remember that there was a company that was public and that was privatized and abused by the People's Party, which cost more than 500 million euros to the public archives -- and that's what the Court of Auditors says, it doesn't say the BNG. And that left us beyond economic losses? —which is very important to remember at a time when we are putting on the table whether there are issues that we can pay or not. — He also left us something very important, which is the loss of control and public control capacity in a sector that is strategic. You have a responsibility for the past, also for the legislates of the electrical system, but you also have a responsibility for the present and the recent past, for living on strike by fallen arms with respect to these problems and other, lords of the People's Party. And, of course, the result is what we see in the present: that there is actually a private company that is doing a permanent blackmail to this country and its institutions. Because that's also the case, we're seeing it in the last few weeks and in the events of the last few days. We saw him last Friday too, and hence the great concern there is also at this time in the workers and workers and in the company committee itself. Because we know that Alcoa is not complying with the rules of play, that Alcoa is also working on her own self-excusation, and that Alcoa is looking for excuses too not to take any steps forward with Liberty. We know that they are failing to meet the mediation conditions agreed upon on August 13th, and in which Galician and State Junta were also involved. And we are concerned that in that strategy of self-exculpation — which sometimes seems to coincide between Alcoa and the People's Party — we are giving way to issues that are minor instead of analyzing what is important. In fact, energy is one of the problems. One thing is that the Alcoa people are a few triplers and another thing is that we forget that we have a serious problem with the price of energy in this country, and, by the way, with an energy model made in the People's Party. Because in 2013 and 1997 it was you who designed this frame, and it was you who designed the frame of the pods that are now being amended by your initiative. You were also the ones who reduced the posses from a year to a period of six months, and you were the ones who didn't make any amends until they stopped ruling from the central level. But they didn't even have a real amendment purpose. They even voted twice in this Parliament against a proposal for a law amending the electrical system to obtain a stable industrial tariff. And they still deny each other the fundamental question, too: that it is indecent that a country that produces electricity above its needs — that in the last year of what we have reported, 2018, exported more than 55% — has companies closing down for the price of electricity. That's indecent. And at some point in this story, or the People's Party or the Socialist Party should assume it. [[Applause]] That is why we amend this initiative, because they will always have us on their side when they demand the approval of that status of electrointensives — which is indeed a takeover of what happened to him —. The Galician Nationalist Block has also made allegations on two occasions — and by the way, we continue to wait for the answers. They're going to take us aside when they want to reform that pox system. In fact, those two issues have been voted on repeatedly in this Parliament. Just a year ago, when the political course began, we discussed in the first plenary an initiative of the Galician Nationalist Block that was adopted; in the third plenary, one of the People's Parliamentary Group, which too. But the point is, now we need more. This country needs more than five days for us to have a decisive date. We need to bet without cracks on a Welsh electric fare. And, above all, the most worrying thing at the moment is that we have to put, by responsibility, at the worst possible scenarios. And the worst possible scenario is that next Sunday Alcoa consumes its roadmap and does not facilitate a sales process, that there is no such sale, or that the safeguard conditions for the use of industrial production are not enough — that there is also the experience of what happened in the Coruña, and how in Coruña the electrolysis tanks stop and how in Coruña we are also seeing a very complex situation. Therefore, the issue we have raised — also by way of amendment — since the Galician Nationalist Block is really important right now. Because it seems to us great that we demand the central government that measures to obtain European funds, whoever owns Alcoa-San Cibrao and La Coruña in a few months. It looks great, but what we have to have is a plan "b" according to what can happen on Sunday and put us on the worst possible stage. And if there's no sale on Sunday or there's no proper conditions, what do we do? [[Applause]] We need to have a plan "b." And the plan "b" is collected -- it seems to be a lie that a sovereign political group has to come and tell it -- in its sacred Spanish Constitution. We have to bet on the way to public intervention. And if there is no solution on the table by private sale, we invite you to bet on Alcoa-San Cibrao — in the case of maintaining the company's refusal to negotiate or sell — by public intervention, by the nationalization of the aluminium plant even if necessary; which would, in addition, return to the origin of this industrial conglomerate and act too — because we must not forget the other foot of Alcoa — in the situation that is still living in the Coruña and that we also understand that this is a way to be taken into account. Look, I know you're allergic to talking about this issue in this House, but I wonder, if in this absolutely decisive context for thousands of jobs in this part of the country but it has an effect on the whole of Galicia, not only in the Navy and not only in Lugo, if at this moment besides absolutely historical, with a global pandemic and where steps will be accelerated to change the production and energy model, can't we bet that the public authorities intervene directly in the economy and condition the events, when we do so? Of course, this is the time. [[Applause]] So these are the issues we wanted to put on the table with our amendment. Unanimity will always have it with us, but, of course, let's put it on paper, put it on the proposal for agreements, something that really needs this country right now. We are seeing this very last week as refusing to recover up to 9,000 million euros invested in a bank that will be given to private hands. Don't put yourself on the table for an apology that there's no economic resources. There are economic resources, and what is needed is political will. Today we can be cowards as a parliament and approve again for the last time the issues raised in the initiative or accept these proposals, be brave and tell the Alcoa comrades and colleagues in the Lugo Navy and throughout this country that, regardless of what they send each other to vote from Madrid, we will be there and that Alcoa does not close. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House services comes to disinfect the stage.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Candia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u83	When I saw that my shipmates in the Navy declined the responsibility to defend this initiative in people, so I documented myself, from Artexo and Ourense, I was worried. Well, deputy for the province of Coruña, I think. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In any case, I had an explanation and I had no doubt. [[Murmurs.]] In the case of the Socialist Party, I came to defend the Government of Pedro Sánchez — by the way, a very complex task in this matter — and I believe he has failed to do so. And in the case of the Galician Nationalist Block, I had a brilliant opportunity to explain to us that they agreed at the time, and look at that I've already asked several questions on occasions that I had with colleagues of the Galician Nationalist Block in debate at electoral times. Because here, when they made public on September 21, the BNG-PSOE agreement—which they put on "Alcoa resolution"—, read and release, and nowhere does it say "if the self-government leaves them", "respecting the powers of the self-government," at all! They defended the Marines and left them thrown away. [[Applause]] Look, I come from local politics, where the answer must be immediate — by the way, after eight years of government of the Galician Nationalist Block — and I learned in local politics that what citizenship asks us is neither sterile debates nor being behind a banner when there really is a problem. And now we have a lot of families in the Navy waiting for you to meet that agreement. That super MP, that the whole thing arranges and the whole thing solves, that at least gives an explanation, because here he's missing the truth. And look, here we talk about health, we talk about older, well, we undoubtedly talk about very important things, but they certainly agree with me that, after health, what concerns a neighbor or neighbor is their job. And now we've come to talk about serious things. You mentioned the year 98. As a matter of fact — because it is a matter that I have devoted many hours to, and I hope it will contribute to its continuity — I found a cover of The Voice of Galicia, of July 5, 95 — the People's Party did not rule, so these certain pages that pass them, in which the Socialist Party's own minister said that the State defended privatization and that it would not have an impact on employment. That's here, neither says Elena Candia nor the MPs of the People's Party. But now, I insist, the marine neighbours want solutions. And I agree that I should, of course, focus on the comrades of the Socialist Party. He said we all had the same concern, but we don't all have the same responsibility. And we're not talking about Alcoa just in the election. And I'm telling you with the sensitivity of being a person who in the previous economic crisis lived two employment regulation files in my family. I'm not coming here to do any kind of demagogy, I'm trying to be part of the solution. And I was very soft because it's the first of the interventions. I really believe that all I care about is that I can motivate you, and the mayors of the Socialist Party in the Navy — that we have them in the most important towns where many workers are present — and that they take off the phone and call Madrid, and that they tell the minister: the summer is over, the summer is over, the 22nd — almost today — summer is over. And here he said — it is not said by the People's Party — that the adoption of the Statute, with its corresponding allegations, is certainly a solution. But if you voted for it! You were voted on June 17 at Congress itself in a non-law proposition where they say yes with 341 votes. You know why? Because that's a solution, because it's not enough for a sale, and we saw it in Coruña and Avilés. We need a sustainable and viable project. It's an industrial problem, definitely. The destruction of jobs is an industrial problem. But right now in the Navy it is a problem of energy policy. And you — who pointed me out that you were born in Vilalba, and you're right — can count on it in the Bridges. They know perfectly well that the energy policy of the Socialist Party's Government is doing a lot of damage to our province. I'm telling you with the greatest respect and the greatest affection, because we need solutions. And you can give them to me. Mr. Knight on February 5th told the workers that he was going to fulfill his engagement. It's all here, because sometimes things are interpreted, but, I insist, the first intervention has to try to be motivating. You can be part of the solution. The Socialist Party right now in our neighborhood has to show up. You have to visit Pedro Sánchez to thousands of families and tell them he's going to put the solution. And if he doesn't, undoubtedly, responsibility will have names and surnames. As a sailor and, of course, as a responsible person, I only have to reproduce what Max Weber said: "One is what he does." And especially the Socialist Party—but I also exemplify it with a picture of the Galego Nationalist Block—with Alcoa they told lies, half-truths and deceived people. But they're still in time to put the solution on the table. I tell you with total humility: time is over and the Navy is waiting for us.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Candia. On the amendments, will you accept the amendments, will you accept them? [[Mr. Candia López's denial]] Don't you? Thank you. You don't accept the amendments. We'll suspend the session until 4:30, 4:30.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u85	Let's restart the session. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr Manuel Antonio Lourenzo Sobral and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the economic impact it is having on the educational community the mandatory use of masks and safety and cleaning material as a result of the covid-19
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u86	There's an amendment from the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u87	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u88	President, ladies and gentlemen, nobody escapes us from having an absolutely exceptional start of course, a start of course that undoubtedly constitutes the most important educational challenge you have, that you have, our country probably in decades. The challenge that we have at the outset demands, of course, we give ourselves the best of ourselves to meet the demands of the Greek society, in general, and of the educational community, in particular, when we are required to spare no effort or effort so that we can provide this academic course with the greatest possible normality. And that's why -- I think this is a shared feeling -- we want to start our intervention by transferring our full recognition to this country's educational community, our recognition of the ingenious effort that has been going on day by day for so many and so long months. And allow me also to move a very special attachment — which I understand is also shared — to the members of the educational community who are currently facing the cowardice in their own flesh. We are with you and all our effort and all our push will be destined to take our children and children forward in this academic course. [[Applause]] But our obligation goes much further, and it's only to demand all of this as the educational community points out, aware that, if we want to face this challenge with guarantees, we cannot make the same mistakes that brought us here. Because if there is a cry for today in the entire educational community, a cry that moves us to all the centers we go to, is that present education and security in the centers is incompatible with the bandages and improvisation of an Education Council that has not been up to the circumstances. And it wasn't because of anything BNG says but because it's a cry from the educational community when they point out they felt alone; it's only because, while the schools were working to start school, the German government was going to throw balloons out one day and another day, downloading responsibility one day in the ANPA, another in the management teams and another in the families. They felt themselves because, while the professor spent so much time — on occasion, on his own vacations — to prepare the teaching centers, we had a Greek government that improvised and bandaged up to the point of changing to three times of criteria on the safety distances in two weeks. They were alone because they had to be once again the mobilizations and the example of the clauses, which refused to start school in those circumstances, which motivated the late teacher's recruitment, ill and trace; a teacher's recruitment that, apart from the lack of criteria in their distribution, if you are showing absolutely insufficient, insufficient in as many centres in the country and insufficient for educational communities as the CEIP Barcelos, as the CEIP Barcelos, as the one in Carballo, as the one in the CRA de Razo, as the one in Monsterio, that you are seeing that what is happening to your staff is absolutely unsustainable. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I remain with a consideration that made me a member — whom I greatly appreciate — of the educational community, which moved us that for them the Greek Government had not managed either the pandemic or the paedia — which the classics would say. The German Government has been limited to managing propaganda. And if what we want is to move on to a new situation, if we want to get our children out of the way with responsibility, we have to overcome this situation. They left us to the members of the educational community, and that "his" plays a role as the SOS of Manuel Antonio's poem when we refer to the subject that brings us into question with the masks and security material in the centers. You know how we — and so all health studies are pointing out — are that masks are essential health protection so that our children and children can have access to safe face-to-face education. You know how we know that, if we don't guarantee that children can safely wear masks, what we're going to be looking at is a fundamental principle in education, such as equity and equal opportunities. And you know how we also know that families are in a situation that is already limited at this time by the economic crisis resulting from the cage and that we cannot at this time bear on the backs of these precarious family economies in so many cases the costs of masks and security materials. So let's get an idea, for a family that has two children the cost of masks is about 80 euros a month, 115 euros a month for a family that has three children. And what is happening? What is the situation that families are living as they move in their own educational community? What is happening is that there are families who have to use masks that are not tested from the health perspective, risking life — health, at least — of children and children; that there are families who have to reuse masks that have a useful life of four hours on occasion for days; that there are families who have to do fiscal engineering to get to the end of the month and that, above their needs, they have to bear the cost of masks and health material; that there are families who have children with special educational needs and who still today do not know what protection their children will have. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we have had since March 12 to plan this situation. What we are moving here today with this LNP, with this initiative, is no different than what is moving the educational community: simply that the Galician Union leaves its bubbling group in San Caetano and implements all the necessary measures to take a face-to-face and safe course. Because we had six months to prepare an action plan to assess the risks and not done; six months to prepare a process that allowed us to know the needs of the centers and not done; six months to determine which masks we could implement the teacher—fulfilling, by the way, with the current legislation, which is not being complied with—and which for our children, and which has not been done; six months to organize a school course, and we see how it is not until the second week of September when we are told that there is an absolute transformation of dynamics and that we did not know whether we were going to have at each centre present, semi-presential or presenceal with mamparas, which is a new mode that has been incorporated until now. The mamparas, by the way, also have an impact on the operating costs of educational centres, which is thus removed from the quality of education that they could have. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it was you who said it wasn't from receipt that there were "17 protocols" -- I literally think -- to start school. Well, your government hasn't implemented 17 protocols, your government has implemented 3,500 protocols. Because what you've been talking about is that every educational center had to look for the chestnuts because the German Government was unable to assume its responsibilities. And if we have something clear -- because that's why we're moving the educational community -- it's that there's no mammoth hiding so much bandage and so much irresponsibility. Because bullies and irresponsibilities are also the costs of educational centres, which have to devote economic shares, which — as I told them — were intended to improve the quality of education, to issues which are not within the competence of the budget of the centres. We're talking about that in medium-sized centres they spend around 25% of the center's operating expenditure on safety material and signaling material; centers where the purchase of the later-to-after mamparas is not taken into account. The same is true of cleaning and disinfection of centres. Despite what we are being told by the Fegamp, despite a report that has just made public the Deputy of the Crown in which it is established that these expenses are not municipal jurisdiction, the board of Galicia delegatees its responsibilities, makes an absolute discharge of functions and transfers these expenses to the municipalities and the centers. At present there are centres, management teams, which say they will not support this situation and that they will resign if the Galician Union does not assume its responsibilities and does not send cleaning materials to the centres. I'm done. If something is clear, with this initiative, what we want to do is take a step forward that helps the health and academic management of the centers and also helps families to cope with an economic situation that is becoming more difficult every day. And that's why we want to hold the hand of the educational community — and of course also of course the Government — so that we can make a blur and account of so many disasters as we have suffered at this time, and so that we can get to work for public education, to work for so many children and children in this country who need the push and support of all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u89	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u90	Of course, this hand remains here — and it is finished, President. The only thing we ask the People's Party is that when you take it, please leave the scissors of the cuts in the drawer. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u91	Thank you, Mr. Lourenzo. [[One person from the House services comes to disinfect the stage.]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me in this first intervention in this new legislation my first words to be for a recognition to Mrs. Pomar for her work, work with which, basically, she knows we did not agree. But if I know -- and you know I know -- that it's an extraordinarily complex councillorship, a councillor who has a very direct impact on families, very directly on teachers and thousands of people in Galicia. Therefore, regardless of disagreements, my personal recognition for your work during your stage in the Council. But also — as Mr. Lourenzo Sobral has just done — I express my appreciation to the families, to the student and also to the professor, who has seen his normality completely altered since March by the situation that was taken as a result of the measures that had to be taken by the pandemic of the coward-19. And we all know -- because we all go through school institutions -- that education is a fundamental right that is enshrined in the Constitution, in article 27, and that educational centres represent precisely the space in which that right has to articulate and develop. And the Autonomous Community of Galicia has full powers in teaching, as laid down in Article 31 of our Self-Government Statute. He said before that the situation arising from the pandemic implied that the Greek education system — just like that of the rest of the state and, practically, the rest of the world — was immersed in an unprecedented situation as a result of the relevant, necessary and obliged closure of educational institutions — and now by the measures to be applied. And this education system is formed, as it is not!, by the student and therefore by their families, but also by teachers and non-teaching staff and the administrations that affect — obviously the autonomy but also the local — in their functioning. And thus, any additional effort that is required necessarily impacts on all those actors. And since education, as it has been said, is a fundamental right, it is an obligation for public authorities to ensure that the new obligations imposed in this pandemic context do not entail an additional element of inequality, so manifest in particular in the educational field. Because we can't see — because it is believed not only by multiple solvent studies but also by the most elementary common sense — that the suspension of educational activity has affected and affected the student much more intensely with the worst socio-economic situation, but we will have to talk about time in this House about this matter. The initiative presented today by the Nationalist Block Galego focuses on a very specific, very specific element, which is the expenditure that families must bear by the obligation to use masks in compulsory and post-war stages by the student from the age of six, and that is regardless of the maintenance of interpersonal distance. And the authors of the initiative — and made reference to that, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral — correctly account for the cost of 9 euros and 60 cents per week or the equivalent — both I have —, 38 euros and 40 cents per month, and the amount that is obviously multiplied by the number of children who have the family. And we agree with this initiative because that expenditure on survival is not easily assumed for many families, and also because it coincides in the background with an initiative also presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. But we believe that the content of this initiative needs to be expanded and that is why we are presenting an amendment for addition and substitution. The addition is referred to in the first point, because we understand that, in addition to the student, the teaching and non-teaching staff of the educational centres must be added, since they must also use, obviously, masks and must take care of the cost of these masks unless they are supplied by the Administration. And in point 2 we understand that several things must be substantially changed from that paragraph. First of all, we must compensate the municipalities — the Council of Galicia — for the increase in the costs arising from the tasks to be carried out in children's and primary education centres in order to comply with the obligations arising from the situation caused by covid-19. Because, as we know, it is the municipalities that have responsibility, among other things, for cleaning tasks in ordinary contexts in children's and primary education centres, to which the cleaning — at least once a day — of those spaces that need it according to the intensity of use — and in the case of toilets, twice a day — should pay particular attention in the common use areas and most frequent contact areas, and that during the school day a person in the cleaning service will carry out a cleaning of surfaces of frequent use. This — I repeat — directly affects the municipalities. And all of this without being equipped even with an instrument of sufficient normative rank to deal with the appropriate budgetary changes and much less respond to the demands transferred from Fegamp of adequate funding for the new obligations imposed. I suppose even people who are part of the People's Party bench and who have or have municipal responsibilities know that, in order for the secretariat or the intervention of a council to make a fiscal change, you have to have a rule that says it should. Well, that didn't even make it easier. Secondary and special education centres must be provided for staff in such cases as is necessary to comply with the obligations arising from the application of the covid protocol, because in this type of centres, unlike those of child and primary education, it is the self-government that equips the staff. They are subject to the same obligations as I mentioned earlier for primary and childhood education centres, so obviously they will require more staff, because, on the contrary, you feel, if you give them time, they could survive in an ordinary context. We must increase — to which Mr Lourenzo also referred — the provision of operating costs for the centres, so that the increase in expenditure they must bear does not in any case assume any minor other ordinary expenditure. And why is it necessary to include this measure? Because, as the Council's own budget records recognize, operating costs are an essential element of the income of a teaching centre — in fact, the only one practically —. They guarantee their autonomy and make it possible to have the necessary materials and educational resources, which is the material infrastructure that enables quality teaching. And this is not what I say; I repeat, tell him the memories of the budgets of the Government of Galician Union. So I think it would be very difficult to understand that we could not acquire the necessary materials for the development of ordinary education because the acquisition of the necessary cleaning materials and their waste management prevented it. And finally, we also understand that the initiative must be expanded to ensure that the Galician Union acts in the same way in the Council of Social Policy as regards the centres of the Blue Wales network. Because, of course, all the arguments that have just been put forward are fully applicable to these children's education centres dependent on the Consortium; since those directly dependent on the municipalities would already be concerned with what we asked for in point 1 of this substitution amendment. We understand that this proposal that we make to the Galician Nationalist Block regarding its initiative is not a correction but an extension, and therefore we understand that it should be approved. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u93	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. [[One person from the House services comes to disinfect the stage.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Roder Tato.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all. The truth is, by reading this non-law proposition, it gives me the feeling that the Nationalist Block in Wales has not yet taken on the result of the past elections. With all due respect I must remind you that it's you... listen, listen. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I must remind you that you are the second party, the second group in this Parliament; therefore, man! I believe that this requires bringing forward proposals that are useful and feasible to improve our country. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You no longer need to bring populist proposals to this plenary session, you are no longer in the last corners of the opposition. In any case, they no longer need this type of LNP that is designed to attract attention and get an easy holder. With that, actually, I don't think they're going to take them seriously. As all members of this House know, the mandatory use of masks by the population was established by the Ministry of Health, the same thing that in the middle of the pandemic said they were not necessary and that later declared their obligation for persons six years in advance on the public highway, or in any closed space for public use or that they were open to the public. It is clear, therefore, that the use of the mask meets the individual protection needs of a health pandemic and that it has nothing to do with the competences in education, as you bring us here today, but it's a competition related to public health. That's why each of us is obliged to use the mask at any time in our daily activity. It's an individual and personal subject. That economic impact of what you're talking about in the LNP for families with minors of school age has already had it and they have to take it, go to school, or go to school, or go to any other educational or cultural activity in the municipalities themselves. Therefore, this proposal could also be requested — free of charge of masks — when the Ministry of Health declared the use of masks mandatory. So we're talking about guaranteeing the student's right to education is a shared responsibility between families and administration. Public administrations must provide a school square and educational services connected to it, and families, of course, must share in providing the materials necessary to participate in the classes. It should be noted that the hideous protocol was adopted in July and modified on 27 August, after the meeting between the Autonomous Communities and the Government of Spain — once the ministers had finished their vacations, it must also be said — However, Galicia was the first community in Spain to adapt this protocol to the recommendations made at that meeting of the autonomous communities. And he was talking about protocols. You said, Mr. Lourenzo, that there were "three thousand protocols." Man, I think you have to adjust more to the reality of things, because you're going to say the numbers that match them. There is a basic protocol established for all educational centres, which facilitates the participation and implementation by each educational centre, which is 1,378. But it doesn't matter to say 3,000 that 10,000 that 15,000, like at the price of the masks -- it's better to say if they're worth twice or triple than you can then find in the market!-- But that doesn't matter. In any case, what I want to tell you is that the protocol for public education refers to the provision of protective material for schools to contain all the materials and PPE necessary for the ordinary functioning of the educational centre. Therefore point 2 of this proposal is already contemplated. The Council and educational centres — and I would like to remind you that educational centres are also educational administration — assume all the additional costs needed in the needs of the covid, such as those of hydro-alcoholic gels, dispensers, disposable cloths, disinfection materials, mamps for the use of dining rooms, pedal paper, poster print, etc. So what you report in this LNP is already being done. In addition, I would like to remind the members of this House that the Council has already delivered 4,000 masks for the personal use of teaching staff and non-teaching staff from schools in Galicia. And it must also be remembered that, in addition, a set of child masks was sent to children's and primary centers for the students who need them on time. You propose to give away masks of a general nature. Well, I think we should make realistic approaches and make the masks easier for those families and for those people so that no family and no child can stay behind in public and quality education. But, of course, the central part of this LNP is directly that freeness of masks, which ultimately forms part of real policy-fiction rather than real policy. So we also hold hands, we hold hands so that the groups of this House can help rule, with serious and assumed proposals, the world of education. Besides, when you practice demagogy there will always be one who looks at what the municipalities do where you rule. And it's nothing more than to see that, in educational or conciliation activities in municipalities that you demand a lot, in your hideous protocols, children are asked to wear the mask. So it's very good to ask something where I don't rule and ask the opposite where I rule. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] And besides, I'd like to highlight something in some way, because I don't understand why that government friend of Madrid, that government friend who supports so strongly — and openly boast of the achievements they achieve with him — does he not lower the VAT from the masks to 4%? The VE of masks has been lowered in other countries. [[Applause]] Yes, yes, in other countries, in Italy, in France, in Portugal... but no, here it doesn't matter, we can't go with the Government of Madrid, it won't be, it won't be... And since we are talking about Madrid, what do they also think is why they have changed the criterion of sharing the system of autonomous financing if there are consistent criteria between all the autonomous communities and the Government of Spain, a criterion of equity of the system of financing for the autonomous communities, for the covered fund — that we thank, how we will not thank the Government of Spain for that fund!—? But those changes of criterion amount to 36.3 million euros less for Galicia. Do you know how many resources and masks you could buy with this money? Of course, I didn't count, but a lot more than you do with that price that I propose to us in this non-law proposal. And, look, let's say it loud and clear, let's say it loud and clear: it doesn't seem good — and you're government accomplices — to these 36.3 million euros that aren't enough for us. Look, I also want to tell you that you talked about the cutters' drawer. Man, let's talk about the cut-off drawer when they applaud the state government's cutting us 370 million euros... oh, of course! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, yes! Of course, it's all right, on the one hand we say something and on the other hand... but where are the 370 million euros in the state? And less... or where are the 100 million euros of the employment funds? Oh, of course! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And it's a shame they didn't get the pillage they wanted to do to the municipalities, because it's a pillage. [[Applause]] Look, we're worried about education: 1,890 teachers plus, 6% more template. They'll say it's not a corresponding number. There you are! We are concerned about the EUR 30 million more than they put this year into educational infrastructure — from a budget of 20 to EUR 51.6 million — to boost the economy as well and improve our centres. We're worried about the dropout rate, which went from 25.8% in the Bipartite, when you ruled, to 12.6% now. Oh, of course! [[Murmurs.]] Of course, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter! We are also concerned about what the PISA report says, of course we are concerned about, of course!, where Galicia continues to improve day by day. And we're concerned about improvements in the digital book and improvements in new technologies. And we're concerned about the quality of teaching. You see, I have to tell you that we cannot lend your support to a populist proposal. But I would also like to thank the work of the entire educational community, which is made up of extraordinary professionals who are leaving the skin to take this educational step forward, the most difficult stage in history, and therefore I also want to thank the entire educational community, the outgoing advisor, and the incoming advisor, who also permanently thanks the work of this community. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u95	Thank you, Mr. Roder. [[One person from the House services comes to disinfect the stage.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Lourenzo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Rodeiro, after listening to your intervention, what I was reminded of was what so many teachers in the educational community told me when they were looking at children with four-hour masks used for four days. You go to those classes and tell them that our proposal is populist. But first of all, we wanted to tell you that, when a person who is part of a group that supports a government comes to this gallery, he would have to have at least a minimum of information on the data he brings, Mr. Rodeiro. [[Applause]] It was the BNG that asked on several occasions for a mask to be distributed during the pandemic, of course we've already asked for such questions! [[Murmurs.]] But it also points out, when it comes to funding, that funding issues are now being asked or argued when you know that Mr. Núñez Feijóo was what was at the Conference of Presidents saying they could invest in other areas what they gave us for education. And they come now, after saying that we were going to allocate that to non-educational areas, that there are no measures that are necessary for the health and education of our centres on funding issues. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, or something or the opposite, because if not, you're the one who's making populism! [[Applause]] And I also tell them that we do not doubt that certain measures can be taken because it can involve economic tension, of course! But when you refer to those debts of the 370 million euros I mentioned here, what we want to say is, welcome to the demand for funding for our country! Because, until now, when you've been managing, what you've devoted to has been systematically supporting budgets according to what you were told in Madrid. [[Applause]] And it has to be pointed out that when they do, when they bring these accounts, they're just manipulating the data, and they manipulate the data in a way that in the educational community is no longer credible. They manipulated the data with teacher recruitment when they told us that there were 540 more teachers, when you knew perfectly well that that teacher was from the ARCO program and that he was hired half a day, when they told us that they hired 271 more teachers and they knew perfectly that this teacher was to meet the ratios of childhood education, ratios that they didn't play throughout the pandemic. And now they have the courage to say that, with the ratios we have in the Greek education system, demanding masks for the whole student is populism. Of course, if we have something clear, that we, as the educational community demands us, believe that it is our obligation as an organization — but we also believe that it is the obligation of any political group — to ensure that students, children and children, can be entitled to present and safe education in addition to their economic circumstances. Do you come to say that it is not your child's health responsibility at the educational centres, that it is not your child's responsibility in a pandemic situation to say that our children can enter a classroom meeting the safety requirements? Well, explain to us what your responsibilities are. It was not the responsibility of the ratios, it was not the responsibility of the management of the spaces, it was not the responsibility of the protocols, and now it is not the responsibility of their safety and health in the centers. The question is, why is the Education Council, then? [[Applause]] And I'm done with a question. We are convinced that in a context like this can arise dozens of difficulties. And you have no doubt that if proactive measures were implemented by this Government to address so many of the needs that are needed in the education system, we and the entire educational community would understand that mistakes could be made, of course! But what happened in this context was not that, what happened was that we subjected the educational community to a sort of abandonment, bandage and improvisation. And that's why you, gentlemen of the People's Party, can't even come here and advertise their management. And so -- and we just saw him in his speech, Mr. Ovidio -- what they do is they manage propaganda, and so we go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u97	Thank you, Mr. Lourenzo. Do you accept the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group? [[Mr. Lourenzo Sobral answers yes.]] Thank you. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u98	Debates of the non-law proposals have been closed. We shall proceed to your vote. Close the doors, please. [[Pause.]] You can't close the doors because of the situation we're in. But if you know that while we vote, no one can go in or out. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the establishment of a parliamentary committee to follow the pandemic. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u99	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Bloc Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Ms Olalla Rodil, on the measures to be taken by the Galician Union to ensure reconciliation in the face of the new scandals and the rebound of the coward-19. There's a transaction proposal that brings me here, where several points are collected. And the People's Parliamentary Group calls for a separate vote on one of the points. So I'm also now, as we're starting, I'd pray that in the future, instead of paragraphs, to see if we can put 1, 2, 3, 4, 5... make it much easier for us. Because in this case it is paragraph 1 (b) which requires the People's Parliamentary Group to vote separately. So we started by voting point 1 (b). Vote of point 1 (b) of the proposed non-law of G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and Mercedes Queixas Zas, on the measures to be taken by the Galician Union to ensure reconciliation in front of new grotesques and the rebound of the Covid-19. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. This point 1 letter is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u100	Let us now vote on the rest of the points of the transaction. Vote of the transactioned text, except point 1(b) of the G.P. Non-Law Proposition. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and Mercedes Queixas Zas, on the measures to be taken by the Galician Union to ensure reconciliation in front of new grotesques and the rebound of the Covid-19. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 70. As a result, these points of the text dealt with were adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u101	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Díaz. The amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group is not accepted and there is a transaction, which has already read out the rapporteur in his speech, and which Mrs Prado tells me that he has not been accepted. Therefore, the proposal is not accepted and remains as it is. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Corina Porro Martínez and 13 other Members, on the demand of the Galician Government for the withdrawal of the limitation of staff replacement rates of the public health system in order to allow all necessary posts to be offered in order to be able to act before the pandemic of covid-19. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 70. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u102	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Marina Ortega. [[Pause.]] [[Technical problems arise in the voting panel.]] We have the choice to vote for the raised hand. [[For technical reasons, the vote on this proposal is carried out not by law at hand.]] We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Marina Ortega Otero and D. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the creation, after compliance with the regulatory requirements established, of a parliamentary commission of research on the facts and contagions of the Covid-19 that occurred in the homes of older during the first strike, with the arrival of the precise information about the passes of users of Greek residences by the virus. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u103	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group, through Mrs Elena Candia. Amendments to the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia and the Socialist Group were not accepted. We vote — to see if you're going. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira and 14 other Members, on the request of the Galician Union to the Central Government for the establishment of a competitive electric price for electro-intensive consumers and the commitment that the industrial plan for Alcoa may opt for the European Recovery Fund. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 70. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u104	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Manuel Antonio Lourenzo Sobral. There is an amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group that has been accepted. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr Manuel Antonio Lourenzo Sobral and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the economic impact it is having on the educational community the mandatory use of masks and safety and cleaning material as a result of the covid-19. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u105	They've finished voting on non-law proposals here, and we continue with agenda item 5, interpelerations. Change in the order of the day for the adjournment of two interpelerations
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u106	You know there's two pleas postponed. We are now debating the third question. Da Ana Pontón Mondelo's appeal and eighteen other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the policy of the Government of Galicia in relation to the impact of covid-19 on the presence of Primary Care
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u107	Mrs Prado has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u108	Good afternoon. First of all, I would like to welcome this Parliament, Counsellor, Mr Comesaña — I have that honour, to be the first. And, having said this, I also have to regret that you had not come to appear on your own will, because the seriousness of the situation we are going through because of the pandemic caused by the covid-19 would require that the maximum responsible for Galician health care to be anxious to come to this Parliament to report on the measures being taken by the Board, to explain what is happening. I sincerely hope that it will not be a background to what your performance will be in front of the council; I hope that you will be more anxious to come here, to this Parliament. Since you did not come on your own will, the BNG interpellates it today in the face of the enormous, deep and more justified concern of the population and of the professionals in the face of the situation of primary care. The pandemic of the coward-19 put relief that primary care is key to ensuring quality health care, to ensure that health care to the Greeks and to the Greeks. It's a primary attention that the pandemic has taken with many previous pathologies. In covid terminology, primary care was with many previous pathologies; serious pathologies, as a result of eleven years of cuts by the Galician Union and more by the People's Party and eleven years of total secondaryization. Primary care reaches this pandemic with a reduced budget this year 2020: EUR 142 million less than eleven years ago, than in 2009, with less professional and less decision-making capacity. And despite these cuts, he was able to perform a very important job in the treatment and follow-up of the infected people, thanks to a titanic over effort of the staff. In front of the pandemic, Junta, Sergas, made the decision to drastically reduce attendance and decided to close some health centres and CAP - practically all consulting. Sergas made the decision that attention should be focused almost exclusively on the telephone consultation; theoretically, to avoid the contamination of both professionals and the population. And this has caused very serious problems in the provision of health care by professionals and in the access of the population to health care. The professionals, who before the pandemic had a situation of overload, were given tasks with the pandemic: diagnostic, tracking and isolation tasks, identification of the coronavirus, tracking functions -- this causes you to have an overload of telephone care, a brutal bureaucratic burden, with collapsed phones and administrative staff and caps, supporting tremendous pressure on the population, which is unable to access the system, and also on the part of other professionals, who are overburdened and do not accept any more burden on their agendas. They have to quote, they have to resign, because there are no professionals, they have to quote again, and they have to take care of that care overload. I'm going to give you an example: in less than two hours, fifty calls to a health center where I was present. It's impossible to manage as many calls as it happens. And I'll give you another example of that same health center: the PSX put a note to the medical staff who said, "The person who's changed from appointment five times. He can't wait any longer." Why do you have to put this note? Because professionals don't accept any more burden on their agendas, because they're paying attention to double, triple and often nearly the quadruple load that would be normal for them. Professionals and patients are more than burned by the situation. Of course, the first question I have to ask you, Counselor, is whether you consider the population to be well cared for when you receive the vast majority of your attention by telephone. And this situation was so, but it was even more aggravated by the arrival of summer, where the shortage of staff was more than alarming for forcing professionals to take vacations in July and August — because, theoretically, the groars were going to occur in September, but it turns out that they moved forward. The staff were not replaced and in the situation they were in was completely overwhelmed. The consequences are disastrous: very few professionals, who are at the limit, with physical and mental exhaustion unbearable; wait lists for weeks for consultations, for analytics, for diagnostic tests, for telephone attention—there are cases of fifteen days, one week, twenty days, to have a attention, no longer present, but a telephone consultation—people queued, in the early hours of health centres, not many people within them; chronic patients completely decompensated — hypertensive, diabetic, with heart disease, with renal problems not being followed—; pediatric health checks that, in some cases, are not being carried out and that, in others, if they are being carried out with a lot of delay... I also want to ask you, then, an analysis of the advice was made — if you left your predecessor, or yourself, because you were in some cases, in the power of this ability — of these centers, the ability to access these centers. This situation is causing more and more people to go to private health, in the face of the lack of response to public health and the lack of protection of the population with this situation. I mean, you're, with this pandemic, getting the roadmap that I've already come from behind, which was to derive as many people as possible from private health. A deprotection that also occurs in the face of the conversion of presenceal assistance to telephone or telematics, because people in older age groups, people with less education and those with less resources for access to the market or management of these technologies are suffering a double deprotection in the face of health problems. The response to this pandemic situation, Counsellor - I say with total conviction - cannot be based on increasing restrictions on access to public system assistance, because it poses a clear risk to the health of the population. This situation could lead us to a collective health problem of chronicizing late-care pathologies, which you know is being produced in an unacceptable amount. So today, BNG wants to ask you what you are planning to fix this situation and what is the schedule for defining primary care; if you are planning to hire professionals, how many and how long you are planning to increase the budget... In short, Mr. García Comesaña, today, from the BNG, we want you to tell us what your roadmap is to solve this situation, because we, at the BNG, are convinced that you need presence health care, because it is necessary for patients and professionals to be able to look in the face, if you can look at the eyes. We need to be able to observe, we need professionals to be able to observe patients. And, of course, telematic care or telephone care can be a complement, but it can't be the majority care, as it is happening today. The population feels unattended, the professionals are making a wall of containment of the frustration of the population and, of course, this is a time bomb that is going to explode at any moment. Today we'd really like to have you tell us what you're doing, what you're going to do, and what's your roadmap to keep that clock bomb from turning primary attention off. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u109	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Answer from the Health Counsellor, Mr. Julio García Comesaña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u110	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take this first intervention in this Parliament as a health adviser to greet all the members of this House, all those people who decided last July that they had represented and, of course, made myself available to all of you. We started an extraordinarily complex legislation in the health system where solutions are not going to be simple or immediate and where the stage is constantly changing. Therefore, despite having the electoral program validated in the polls as a guide for action, the situation is open to any suggestion by any political group, provided it is consistent with this electoral mandate we receive. In this sense, not only do I want to tell you that we thank your proposals and suggestions, but I'm going further, we need them. At this moment, citizenship calls for collaboration and understanding to overcome this pandemic and its consequences and to recover our lives as we knew them. In this sense, I welcome the unanimous agreement of the groups to create in this Parliament a study committee to come up with proposals for the recovery of Galicia, and I take advantage of it to offer all the collaboration they believe necessary in their work. Having said this, I am grateful to the Group of the Galician Nationalist Block that the first opportunity I have to talk about in this Parliament is about primary care, because it is precisely one of the points where the evolution of the epidemiological and health situation requires solutions from the dialogue between professionals, political groups and between society. And, in addition, it is one of the points on which the concern of citizenship is now focused. With which, I thank you twice for the opportunity because I think it's good for the citizen to see that we're talking about what he's most interested in today. As you know, this government has approved and is developing the primary care plan 2019-2021, which consists of 7 strategic lines, 52 objectives and 200 measures, which has a specific budget of more than 102 million euros and which provides for the incorporation of 331 new squares into primary care categories. This plan collects in its first strategic line the provision of human resources of primary care, adapting the number of squares to epidemiological and demographic characteristics — this was already collected by the plan in its current drafting. In response to this commitment, in August 2019 20 new family doctor squares and 45 family and community nursing were created. In addition, during 2019, 249 medical professionals were enrolled in primary care. The electoral program that was supported by the Greeks in the polls explicitly included the development of this plan, and this commitment persists. So there are our forecasts of budget increases and of professionals they were asking for. However, it is clear that the global pandemic situation and the health emergency situation declared in Galicia has an impact on the circumstances in which we must develop this plan. And the first of these matters which, indeed, citizenship is demanding — and for what you are interested in — is the reactivation of the face-to-face consultation after the phase of confinement. It must be needed that presenceal attention was always maintained in all primary care centers, but because of the pandemic an assessment was introduced through a telephone call on the need for presenceal consultation; a reasonable and prudent measure that, in addition, is not exclusive to Galicia but has been adopted in most autonomous communities. In that sense, we had the advantage that since 2013 we had the telephone consultation, the non-presental consultation, with a frank success between professionals and citizens. We had values of 15% of the daily primary care activity in the non-presental field. This telephone call, as I said, enables people with symptomatology compatible with covid-19 infection to be detected, facilitates early detection and reduces the risk of secondary transmission. Now we're going through a second wave of the epidemic, and it's therefore essential that people with covid-19-compatible symptomatology stop circulating and only turn to health centers for presence care when necessary, always ensuring safety conditions for patients and professionals. And there is a second circumstance that affects face-to-faceness, which is the extraordinary work that primary care professionals are doing these days in the detection of asymptomatic people, in the request for PCR tests, in the household follow-up of infected people and in the control of the homes of older people and people with disabilities. In short, the consequences of the pandemic, both in the need to reduce physical contact as well as in these new tasks that are developing professionals, are the reason for these changes in health care that patients have experienced in recent months. Having said this, it is clear that we are at a time of transition when telephone care must cease to be that vast majority that you mention of health care and walk towards a complementary character — which you also pointed out — even though it certainly maintained a greater protagonist than before the pandemic. In this sense, Sergas has activated the Primary Care Reactivation Plan, which collects that the citation of patients will be adjusted to a cadence that minimizes the concentration of people in both the waiting rooms and the public transport media. It also collects the enhancement of the phone call and proactive home care. For this purpose, the means of transport centres have been provided, so that health professionals can care for the people who need them at home without delay, whenever they have difficulty moving for clinical reasons. For the follow-up of chronic patients we also count on the Telea platform, which allows the monitoring and follow-up at home of certain pathologies — i.e. with quite remarkable success among older people, contrary to what we might think — and with other tools such as electronic clinical history or e-Interconsults, which can incorporate images and be used to consult different specialities without the patient having to go to the health center. We also have home hospitalization, Public Emergency and Health Emergency Foundation 061 - with all the services it provides - and with the continuing attention points, the CAP. They are all part of a wide network to ensure health care for 24 hours a day and 365 days a year throughout the autonomous community. It should be noted that waiting for primary care for scheduled consultations does not follow the same parameters as in hospital care consultations, since these are chronic patients who need to be reviewed every six months, quarterly or even annually. And I want to insist that telephone attention allows you to triage and classify demands, thus ensuring attention step-by-step, avoiding massifications and having our biggest ones more protected. The pace of development of this aid recovery plan is marked by the epidemiological situation in our community at every moment. To the extent that clinical criteria indicate that it is improving and the plans and protocols are being revised, we can expand the gap in health centres; in the same way that it is with clinical criteria such as primary professionals are determining who attends. In accordance with these criteria, the studies we have done allow us to determine that right now primary staff is meeting in a face-to-face manner around 25-30% of their patients. Currently, in Galicia the coupons of the family doctors are below 1,500 TSIs. And it is also important to point out that the average pressure throughout Galicia by coupon does not exceed 30 patients/day in any health area — except unexpected, of course. These were two demands from our professionals who were met. Today, we can say that all people who needed attention, both at the primary and hospital level, have been cared for. The health centers, 061, the CAP, the hospital emergency services never closed. Finally, I believe that we have enough means for telephone access to be resolvable and that in many cases we can provide the patient with the necessary assistance, avoiding their displacement and thus avoiding inconveniences and risks. Ladies and gentlemen, we are living in an unprecedented and unprecedented situation that makes us have to make the best decisions with a single objective, which is only to be able to reduce and eliminate the spread of this pandemic and guarantee the health of all. This objective will respond to the measures we take for the progressive increase in face-to-faceness in primary care, always from the utmost prudence. We count on the best professionals, and from here I want to thank them for their efforts, dedication and surrender. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u111	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the reply, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u112	You say, Counselor, that the solutions will not be simple or immediate. I remind him that we've had six months of pandemic and nobody asked him to solve the issue in two days, but we've been six months of pandemic. And you're not a freshman at the council office, nor is you a freshman at applying the roadmap on the health of the People's Party. You were part of the General Public Health Directorate team with Felix Rubial, you were in the Ourense administration, and you were in Vigo's management; that is, you're part of the team that's been implementing the health measures that have brought us here. And, of course, you say today it won't be easy or immediate. At the same time, we are at an exceptional moment, with an exceptional situation, and you have just said here, in your first intervention, that they keep the roadmap of the People's Party. We're again talking about a primary care plan 2019-2021, which has already been rejected by the vast majority of the health sector, with an insufficient budget for three years, which is less than 80 million euros, and in the face of an exceptional situation they insist on maintaining the road map. I sincerely regret that there is no solution, because with that road map they have brought no solution at all. Throughout the contingency plan, the Council, in the face of this situation, transferred some basic recommendations to health centres, and then the solution was to seek life. My colleague Manuel Lourenzo used to say earlier about the teaching that each educational center had to look for life, and in the health centers, exactly the same. I mean, this is the crowd of the People's Party's Government's identity: let things flow to see if they're going to solve themselves and whether professionals and citizens are going to solve things. The decisions they make, Mr. Counsellor, have concrete consequences that affect specific people and are not isolated cases. And I'll give you some very illustrative examples of what the primary care situation is: 1 doctor of 7 in the Grove health center for many days; the consultants of Vilaxoán or Paradela, in Meis, closed -- these have to go to Cambados and Pediatrics to Sanxo, at 30 kilometers -- in Lower Limia, Bande or Entrimo are out of pediatrics, they have to use 80 kilometers to go to Celanova to get pediatric care; in Moaña, from 7 to 20 days on average to have a phone call, and the PAC closed; in Sotomaior, 1 doctor and medium to care for 7,500 inhabitants; in Lalin, 4 doctors to cover the 11 cup of 11; in Lugo, you made the decision to concentrate all the primary care of the weekends at a single health center. The problem wasn't the agglomeration, that people couldn't massify themselves? But you decide that all of Lugo's weekend primary care will go to a single health center. These are some examples, but the whole country is in this situation. In these conditions, of course, normal care for patients is not guaranteed and professionals cannot work, Counselor. No one is ready to deal with this situation, it won't be the BNG who says it had to be easy, but waiting for things to be solved by themselves is certainly not an alternative. And the alternative is not to try to make things work out at zero cost, as the People's Party is doing. More health workers are needed, but not just health workers, more cleaning personnel, more disinfections, more staff for telephone care, for appointments, more telephone lines, more information is needed, more accessibility is needed. Primary care needs to be dedefined and reactivated in a clear way. You just said here that telephone attention has only advantages, but it's almost the only thing you see them, because the population hasn't just seen them; as complementary, yes, but it hasn't just seen them; and most professionals haven't seen him either. Because to have good telephone and quality care would need more professional, not double the workload with professionals who were already saturated. They were already saturated, and now comes all the load of the pandemic and the coward, and with the same vimbies or with less -- because there are many professionals down there -- you want them to continue giving quality attention. It's impossible to do that. Of course, the future of health cannot be distance care, it can't be kept between patients and professionals. Contact, the relationship between doctor and patient are basic in primary care; therefore, this cannot follow this path. I tell you here today, Counselor, that it is necessary to respond to demands of attention to the coward, but also to the rest of the pathologies, which do not give them quality attention. From BNG we asked for correction, because the future of health care cannot be telephone care, it can't be telephone calls that cover the shortage of professionals, nor can telephone calls and telephone care cover, which are not seen in situ, the collapsings that would be in primary care.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u113	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u114	That's why I ended up making a few proposals: activating face-to-face attention, end with waiting lists in primary care, activate clear and unified protocols throughout the territory because there are not, increase the number of professionals with decent contracts and increase the budget for primary care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the closure of this inquiry, the Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u116	President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that we have excellent, accessible and resolute primary care, equipped with competent professionals, free from difficulties, such as the tensions arising from the absence of personal replacements or from the sociodemographic shift towards chronicity and pluriplotology, which are characteristic of aging, which require a successful evolution of the model, which we have enjoyed so far. Since the Galician Health Service, important improvement measures have been taken for years: annual OPEs, extension of retirement age, open and permanent competition, career, continuity contract or the creation of nursing specialty, among others. The Health Council has been working on primary care for a long time and applying improvement measures in this area of care for a long time. I want to reiterate the commitment and the commitment to primary care, and the facts that corroborate what I say are in sight. Galicia has 469 health centers and 90 continuous care points. And to continue to improve the health care of citizens and the conditions and means of work for professionals, we are building or bidding new infrastructures and making improvements to existing ones. In addition, we have instruments like new technologies, which allow us to get closer to the citizen and provide services in a more accessible way. The Telea platform, which was previously commented on, facilitates the follow-up of people with chronic diseases, through Connecta 72, we tracked people who were discharged from hospitals and the telephone consultation provides optimal accessibility to solve issues without people having to move. And here I have to tell you, Mrs Prado, that, indeed, citizenship values positively not having to travel to the health centre to do administrative procedures, of course. We provide them with new diagnostic material: ultrasounds, retinographs, electrocardiographs... for health centers, with an investment of 1.5 million euros, and we renew their computer equipment. We have created new squares of family and community medicine as well as family and community nursing, pediatric nursing, social work, pharmacy, physiotherapy and more MIR and EIR squares for the training of specialists. We created the continuity contract. On 15 January 2019, the sectoral table approved, with the support of trade union organisations CESM-O’MEGA, UXT, CSIF and SATSE, the possible continuing statutory appointment in the field of the Galician Health Service. With this contract, professionals have greater job stability, because they are contracts with a minimum duration of between 1 and 3 years and enjoy equal rights, vacations, permits, rest, daytime and equal pay, including a fixed and variable productivity complement. We've already incorporated more than 50 healthcare professionals in primary care through this contract. But one of the things that demonstrated this pandemic and if anything was needed was that primary care and hospital care shared and made reality the care continuity, which began with the integration of a single electronic clinical history for each patient. During the pandemic, we strengthened health care personnel for home care and follow-up teams, a process in which primary care and hospital care collaborate. We have incorporated 269 personnel for the equipment to take samples at home, for the car-covid, for the household follow-up of positive cases and for preventive medicine, microbiology or emergencies-061. Patient-centred care needs a highly coordinated work among professionals, breaking the stagnity, as the patient needs integrated and integrated coordinated care, and we were able to overcome these barriers and actually put it in the center, at the axis of the system. And precisely in integration is the answer to break these barriers that we have today. We have to improve — it is true — the integration of telephone systems, separating the request for appointments and ensuring that the patient who needs telephone access to his health centre gets it. And we also need to improve integration among professionals, which will probably require reviewing the functions and tasks of collectives such as nursing or general service staff. That's what we're working on. President, ladies and gentlemen, since the Health Council and the Galician Health Service we are committed and are working daily so that our health system will not only maintain its high level of service to people, but also to ensure their improvement, which will be possible if we have strong, resolute and future primary care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-22-DSPG005.u117	Thank you, Counselor. Full until tomorrow at ten in the morning. Good afternoon.
