ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u1	Good morning. Let's resume the session with questions to the president. And first allow me to greet the third and fourth ESO students from the Orza Couto center in Boqueixón, as well as their teachers. Welcome to Parliament! And also all the people who accompany us today in the Hemicycle Gallery. Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the predictions of the Galician Union regarding the correction of the policies that the Galician citizenship is answering in the streets
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u2	Ask, Mrs Rodil, spokesperson for the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u3	Thank you, President. Mr. Feijóo, you leave a Galician worse than you found ten years ago. The truth is, I'm telling you without accuracy, but this may well be your epitaph as president of the Galician Union: lets a Galician man worse than he found. [[Applause]] And if there's some area that's been particularly damaged by its outcome over these ten years, that's public health, to the point of putting people's lives at risk. Because the cuts kill him, Mr. Feijóo. And sadly in this country we have cases of Dozón and the Road to remember. This country has been mobilized for years, planting its policy of harassment and falling from public health. Galicia is full of "Virin, don't close." One day are the mothers and fathers of Verín, but the next day are those of Zas, those of Coristanco, Val do Dubra, Sardinian, Moeche, the Somozas or San Sadurniño, and the next day they are those of Cee, Laxe, Malpica, Carballo, Cangas or Meira. And I could go on like this, you know why? Because 60 percent of the municipalities in this country have no pediatricians. [[Applause]] I repeat it again: Galicia has been mobilized for years, with situations as unheard of as the block resignation of primary care service heads in the Vigo Health Area. Do you want me to remind you that those chiefs of service were complaining? "The lives of our patients are being put at risk. A population that has no good attention will be a sick population," end of the appointment. But that's not all, since it's common to see the collapsed emergencies, with sick people stacked in the corridors waiting, while his government closed eight hundred beds. And the thing isn't over here. What happens in primary care? We have a CAP that is left without staff because they have to go out and meet an emergency, saturated quotas and increasingly precarious working conditions among public health personnel. Does it seem normal to you that in this country there are health professionals who sign contracts for hours, who accumulate hundreds in one year? Today, Mr. Feijóo, it is precisely the dedication and effort of the public health personnel who maintain and save the health of the collapse. And you should fall in shame in the face of this situation. [[Applause]] For all this, the Greeks and the Greeks will return to the streets this Sunday in Santiago de Compostela, to tell him loud and clear that with health there is no play. We have made three very clear proposals since the BNG if you want to start reversing this situation: first, urgent plan to improve primary care, with sufficient economic resources, two hundred six million euros; second, call the vacant squares in Sergas, five thousand unmet squares, and open the eight hundred beds closed during their government. If I may give advice, Mr. Feijóo: take the short time you have left in the Chair of the Board and correct as in the Hospital de Verín. Because the only time you're rectified is the only time you're right. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u5	Mr. President. Your Honor, you must recognize that the BNGs are very conservative; very conservative because you have started your debut in this control session by calling me "deloyal and incompetent". Now, to continue, tell me, nothing more and nothing less, that I practically have to say goodbye, and put me on an epitaph, even. Look, Your Honor, with all due respect: after forty years of insults and sectarianisms, the BNG will probably remain in the opposition for another 40 years. That's the big difference, Your Honor, between a democratic party and a non-party. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor, the text of the question is whether we are going to rectify the policies that are being answered in the streets. As you've just seen, this doesn't matter. The question is to see that this is the number one manifestation of the BNG, the Socialist Party, the Tides, Podemos and other allies in relation to public health. I'm used to it, Your Honor, because I'm a democratic president, listening to the Greeks, and I'm very proud that Galicia is a demanding people. And since I am very proud that Galicia is a demanding people, I am even more proud that that demanding people elect me as president of Galicia since 2009. [[Applause]] Your Honor, as I am used to this kind of party demonstrations, I am the first democratic president of the state of autonomy to which they made a demonstration before taking possession. When we won the elections in March of 2009, a pre-trial demonstration was convened on March 6th, before taking possession, by the Bureau for Linguistic Standardization. It turns out -- yes, it must have been the chance -- that the president of the Bureau of that, later, was BNG's number one in the general elections of 2016. Things that have life in connection with the demonstrations of the people, Your Honor! [[Exclamations from the popular bench.]] Look: as I'm a president who can listen, he knows how to distinguish between noise and really the legitimate demands of citizens. So we have to listen to everything that is produced and we have to take note of it. Despite the preventive demonstrations, it turns out that in the worst years of the economic crisis, the Greeks elected us to preside over Galicia in 2012, and re-elected them to preside over Galicia in 2016. And the BNG always on the street and, of course, out of the governance of the Unity of Galicia. The BNG has never won democratic elections in the Autonomous Community of Wales, and the BNG has never ruled when it has won, but always when it loses in partnership with other losers. Your Honor, I know that when you bring health here, it's not to try to improve health, but to try to undermine and reject what the public health professionals are doing. Are there more infrastructures, health centers and hospitals today? Yes. Are there fewer waiting and more health services today? Yes. Is there more technology today? Yes. Is there more budget today and nearly four thousand more people working in public health? Yes. What are things to improve in public health? Today and always. But, Your Honor, the proof that you are not interested in public health at all is that in that agreement, the excuse you have signed to support the government of Pedro Sánchez in Madrid is that they do not ask for a single proposal on public health. All the proposals that you're going to make me here, you don't even name them. [[Exclamations from the popular bench.]] Public health does not exist. Why didn't you ask to let us call more MIR squares...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u7	...more family doctor's squares, more paediatrics squares? Why don't you propose it, ladies and gentlemen, that we've been asking for three years to be allowed to call more MIR squares and more Pediatrics squares? [[Applause]] Your Honor, yes, you come here to be interpreters of what is said in the streets of Galicia. His sovereignty is inexplicable, Your Honor! What street have you heard about asking for an alliance with Bildu, the Republican Left and the CUP?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u8	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u9	In what street of Galicia, Your Honor, have you heard most of the Greeks say that you must meet with the Catalan independenceists who are in prison to regulate the state of autonomy? What street of the country? How many yellows and how many yellows...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u10	Thank you, Mr. President, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u11	Your Honor, are you planning an independent Galician and a sovereign Galician?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u12	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u13	Your Honor, stop doing so much pride, stop playing the Welsh and the Welsh, and leave the Welsh and the Welsh when they vote freely...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u14	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u15	...and they will meet, ladies and gentlemen, with the result of the polls. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u16	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u17	Thank you, President. You are indeed predictable, Mr. Feijóo. He never cheats on his prepotence and certain paternalism, I'll also tell him. Never let it down! [[Applause]] Once again you attack the BNG investment agreement. That agreement, Mr. Feijóo, is the best that's ever happened to this country in ten years. And I understand that you're angry, that's the only angry Welshman, but I understand that you're angry and confused, but you have to overcome it. [[Murmurs.]] Do you know why you're baffled, Mr. Feijóo? [[Applause]] Because that BNG deal left you with your ass in the air. [[Laughter]] And I repeat that again: absent president, incompetent president and unfair president with this country. [[Applause]] You come here to tell us that public health has never been better in this country, your happy Arcadia; it is Mr. Feijóo's health policy. But would you like to explain to us how it is possible that they take the Welsh and the years mobilized in the streets, from the Navy to the health area of Verín, from Ferrolterra to the health area of Vigo? That data does not come into your propaganda or into your happy Arcadia. I'll give you the data that doesn't fit into that Arcadia you want to paint. Look: health together with unemployment and precariousness is the greatest concern of the Galicians and the Greeks. Only in primary care during his years of government does he accumulate a cut of more than two billion euros, 60 percent of the municipalities in this country have no pediatricians and you closed eight hundred beds in the Greek hospitals. This is the reality, Mr. Feijó. And there's no headline, no propaganda, no information manipulation, not even Sergas censorship circulars who can cover it up. I'll repeat BNG's proposals again. You can leave this door as soon as the control session is over and ask for effective action: urgent plan to improve primary care with sufficient resources, two hundred six million euros; summon the five thousand vacant squares in Sergas, and open up the eight hundred beds that closed its government.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Close this question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u19	Your Honor, is this the best deal that could happen to Galicia? An agreement that consists of saying yes to the bridge closure? An agreement that says yes to the closure of Meirama? Two thousand people in the street. An agreement that says yes to Alcoa's closure? Two thousand people in the street. An agreement that says yes to the transfer of Ence? Eighty thousand people who sell wood cannot sell wood. An agreement that tells you to get out of the maritime-terrestrial zone the canteens and the refrigerators and the debuggers, is that the best agreement that could happen to Galicia? Your Honor, at least we're here to defend Galicia! That's the best deal Galicia could ever get through. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, stop poisoning. Does it turn out that the Government that most hospitals have done throughout the history of autonomy is closing beds, when what we're doing is increasing the number of beds? It turns out, Your Honor, that the data of Pediatrics have just come out, that of every 100 pediatric squares in Spain, twenty-five percent are occupied by middle-aged family doctors, and in Galicia twelve percent, that is, less than half the rest of Spain? Your Honor, will you say that we have lowered the expenditure of EUR 8 billion, when it turns out that we have the greatest health expense in the history of the Autonomous Community of Galicia? But, Your Honor, I don't know who's doing his papers, but it's happening to him the same thing that happened to the lords of Podemos. Your Honor, this is the interpretation of the street, these are your agreements. Look, he's got a lot of interest, the best thing that's ever happened to Galicia! An agreement signed by the lords of Junts per Catalunya, that is, Torra and Puigdemong, the lords of left Republican Catalonia, the lords of Bildu, the lords of the CUP and the lords of the BNG. This is the recent agreement signed in Madrid; that's right, in Spanish. [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor, you say in this agreement, nothing more and nothing less, that you, these parties, represent the vast majority of the population of Euskadi, Catalonia and Galicia. Now it turns out, Your Honor, that you represent the vast majority of Galician population. [[Exclamations on the popular bench.]] But are you really going to be so proud? Are you really going out to the streets thinking they represent the vast majority of the country? What street in Galicia have you heard that the Greeks are against the Spanish Constitution? On what street in Galicia have you heard massive insults to the head of state? In what street of Galicia, Your Honor, have you heard that the Spaniards and the Greeks in Galicia are perfectly compatible because our way of being Spanish is to be Greek? In what street of Galicia, Your Honor, we are asked to be a comparison of the independence parties of Catalonia and Euskadi? [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, the Greeks are not going to tell us what we have to say, what we have to think about and how we have to speak of the independence parties of Euskadi and Galicia. Not to you, not to the Greeks. No, Your Honor. The Greeks have their own intelligence, we think for ourselves. And, of course, you don't represent the vast majority of the country, when they're asking for Galician independence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u20	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u21	Stop interpreting to the Greeks, that the Greeks know what we want, Your Honor, and we say it clearly every time we are asked for our opinion. That's why you can tell the Socialist Party what to do; no doubt without you, the Socialist Party, you're nothing. But we, no, Your Honor, represent these housewives of the Road and represent these boys of Boqueixón, vote to whom they vote. And that's why we're going to continue building public health despite the Galician Nationalist Block and all its allies.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u22	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u23	Your Honor, you are the interpreters of minorities in Galicia. But you stop using Galicia's name for your child party interests. Galicia is much bigger than the Galician Nationalist Block. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u24	Thank you. He asked Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Antón Sánchez García of the G.P. Group of the Left, on the views of the German Government on the maintenance of the claim that this is the legislation of rural
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u25	Mr. Sánchez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u26	Good morning. In the past I was called to order to speak of the sort of censorship Mr. Feijóo practices. Curiously, the next day we met an instruction from his Government that prohibited the demanding posters in health centers and hospitals. I don't like being right in these cases, Mr Feijóo. You're a censor! It's the only weapon left for you to defend yourself from the evil politics that has been developing in these years. Well, look, you're not going to shut up these professionals, these professionals, or citizenship, which require public health, which are against their policies of privatization of health and of the benefit of private health. We won't be silenced. So this Sunday there will be a unanimous cry for public health. By the way, that democratic party you alluded to, the People's Party, I want to know if after recently knowing that the Government of your party, the People's Party, has used 500 thousand euros of reserved funds to defend the People's Party of Box B, with the bribe, kidnapping and spying of people with money from all of them, I will continue to receive calls to order to speak that the People's Party is a structurally corrupt party. The facts speak for you. [[Applause]] Qualifications come up, facts speak for you. Aren't you ashamed to say that this is the legislation of rural life when reality is that it was ten years, a black decade for our rural life, and that its only project for it is the annihilation and the obsolescence programmed? Well, cynicism has no limits. Are you talking about rural legislation because in the countryside, in these years of your government, if you created a job? I suppose not, because since you've destroyed one out of four jobs in the agricultural and forestry sector. Almost 20,000 jobs destroyed by their policies. Is he talking about rural legislation because he was able to slow down and reverse the tendency to depopulation in rural areas? I suppose not, because the data from your own government say no, which has accentuated the abandonment of rural areas, as the density of the underpopulated areas says. Are you talking about the legislation of the countryside because you're going to keep your word and finish what you promised, the one hundred and thirty-two partial mergers in this legislation, Mr. Feijóo? No, because you knew at that time you weren't going to do it, and you wouldn't. Once again he lied and lied, and kept his word. This country annually imports more than EUR 200 million into cereals that could be produced in those abandoned and reforested lands, which you allow, because it has never been able to make effective policies for the mobilization of the earth. Galicia loses more than 10,000 hectares of useful agricultural surface every year, while we have to pay off what we could produce here. The Germans compete in inferior conditions with respect to an Asturian, French or German gangman, because in this country you haven't done your homework, and we don't have an ordained country. We don't even have a map of agronomic aptitude soils, which is the basis for land management policies. Can it be the country's legislation because if you reverse that trend towards the abandonment of the land? No, since the abandonment of the land has increased. Yesterday we even knew a scientific study that said that by 2030 Galicia would be the autonomous community that more lands of crop loss. Once again, you lead a negative statistic. Can it be rural legislation because an efficient solution is given to the joint management of the mountain? Well, you had a figure to do it -- forest development societies. It's been ten years, how many are there? According to the last statistical yearbook, ten, four thousand hectares, Mr Feijóo; 0.1% of the forest area. Horrible joke! Will it be the legislation of rural people because they're betting on research? Well, neither. The agrarian research reference centre of this country has twenty-two research squares. Of them, eleven are vacant, and they don't intend to cover them, because for you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u27	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u28	...the only project that exists in relation to rural is the policy. They work for policing and throwing it away from people. It's the best way for other people to spread our natural resources. Tell us, Mr. Feijóo, that we are anxious to know, why you say this is the legislation of the countryside. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u29	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. On more occasions, I think we have commented that in fact there may be people in some party who have corrupt behavior. That doesn't mean that everyone who engages in a game is... No, no, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That doesn't mean everyone who engages in parties is corrupt. [[Murmurs.]] This question should be clarified. No, no, no. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] This question should be clarified. [[Murmurs.]] No, you can't. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, quiet. No, no. This question should be clarified. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. President's reply. Silence! I didn't say anything else: clarify this question, nothing else. Silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. President's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Sánchez, last November - I think it was November 13 - we had an opportunity, on your behalf, to talk about the countryside. And then I had to remind you -- and I'm sorry to have to do it now -- that, in the debate of the state of Autonomy, of the forty proposals that your group made, none referred to the rural environment. I mean, for the purposes of the Podemos tides, the rural environment has no problem in Galicia. And besides, you don't have any proposals for the rural environment, none of the forty. That's it! Well, I understand that you don't present proposals in rural areas, because every time you present a rural exfoliation. Mareas proposals: close Ence; 88,000 people living in rural areas and sell wood to Ence without the possibility of income. Second proposal: close Meirama; 300 people on the street in Cerceda. Third proposal: Close The Bridges; which disappears the Town Hall of the Bridges definitely. Fourth proposal: Close Alcoa; that the Navy disappears completely. Fifth proposal: to close Reganosa; Mugardos and its industrial area that go beyond the jobs of Fene and Ferrol in Navantia. We support the expansion of PSA when we had to bring the law to rehabilitate the Vigo General Plan, annulled by the Supreme Court. [[Peugeot, Citroën, Opel]] Finally, what are your proposals in rural areas? Close the countryside. Your Honor, why don't you talk to your partners, now that you're in the Government, and leave without effect the amendment of the Rules of the Law of Back, which will shut us down a hundred companies on the coast of Galicia? Aren't the sailors rural? Ladies and gentlemen, why don't you talk to this minister of Ecological Transition and tell him to go up the diesel is going to increase the costs of tractors and all the agricultural machinery and trucks? But, Your Honor, you come here now, who are ruling in Galicia, talking about the countryside, when it turns out that the whole rural of Spain is up against the government that you are managing in Madrid, it's a joke! That's right, when someone shows up against the Socialist Party Government and Podemos in rural areas, they're landowners and carcasses. Your Honor, that's what you understand about listening to the street, which was the spokesperson for the BNG. When someone goes against the progressive government, he's a carcass, a landlord, and when he goes against the People's Party Government, he's a Democrat. Your Honor, do we take the legislation of the countryside? Yes. Why? Because today there is more agricultural production than ever before, because today there is more meat production than ever before, because today there is more beef of beef, more beef of sheep and more poultry than ever, because today we sell more eggs than ever, because today we sell more wine than ever, because today we export more wine than ever, and because today, Your Honor, we are selling more wood than ever. That's why, Your Honor, it's the legislate of the countryside and it's going to be in the next legislate. Have no doubt, Your Honor, it will remain in the next legislate. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, we know perfectly well that the first thing we want is the same public services. And Galicia is the only autonomous community that has homes of the largest free of charge in municipalities of less than five thousand inhabitants. And Galicia is the only autonomous community that has children's homes for children from 0 to 3 years free of charge in all municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants. And today, 80 percent of the Greeks live less than 15 miles from a high-capacity track. And today, 80 percent of the Greeks live in a health area with a health center or a new hospital. That's rural work: homogeneous services, homogeneous infrastructure; ultimately, Your Honor, facilitating mobility. You know, Your Honor, that the boys...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u31	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u32	...in rural can they go free all over Galicia, the under twenty-one-year-olds? You, who used to rule in the cities, didn't a potato fall at the price of the urban bus for the boys. But we keep talking in the replica. Mr. Sánchez, do you really bring here the rural question after farmers from all over Spain are on the streets simply because they're going to be unemployed and can't keep working on their farms? You tell me what the proposal is for this.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u33	Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u34	I have a commitment to the Greeks...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u35	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u36	...and I'll do it. Do you have any commitment to Galicia and the rest of the Spaniards more than to try in three weeks of government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u37	Your time is over, President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u38	...to destroy the expectations of farmers and livestock? Nothing else and thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u39	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u40	Mr. President, I never said all the members of the People's Party were corrupt; I said that the People's Party is a structurally corrupt party, and if they are not, they hide very well. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Feijóo, I'm already calmer, for he said that the rural situation is good, better than ever. The situation is better than ever and the responsibility, on the other hand, we have it. Let's see how you eat that? He said everything was our fault; instead, it's better than ever rural. You, Mr. Feijóo, were unable to speak seriously once again of the real problems that the German rural has, because you have no defence possible. Of the six points I told him, he has no ability to answer them seriously. No, because you know you've destroyed one out of four jobs in the agricultural and forestry sector; because you know that you've emptied rural more quickly than ever; because you know that you've got half of the agricultural research squares vacant; because you know that forest development companies have failed, Mr. Feijóo; because you know that you haven't put in place efficient land mobility policies, and that's why our farmers compete in inferior conditions with other countries, which have governments that have done their corresponding duties, Mr. Feijóo. You're a real fraud and a tear, a plague for the Italian countryside, Mr. Feijóo. That's right. Throw the balloons out. You say, now, the situation of farmers and livestock from all over the state is our responsibility, too. You, who have ruled here ten years and seven years with Mr. Rajoy in front of the state, have nothing to do with it. Since he talks to me about coastal concessions, Mr. Feijóo, do you know what you could do? To request from the Government of the State the powers to grant concessions on the coast, as they have already done Andalusia and Catalonia. And it's these autonomous communities that give the concessions. If we had that, we weren't discussing what it does or does not do the Government of the State. But you never wanted to take responsibility, just as you never wanted to take responsibility in the transcendental issues that affect our rural environment. You don't laugh at people when they talk about homogenous services throughout their citizenship, because they're listening to them in rural areas, they live like you close services one after another, Mr. Feijóo. Didn't you hear Verín, who was already a desperate cry, for the closing of public services, Mr. Feijóo? Are you the champion of the cuts, Mr. Feijóo? Don't laugh at the people and answer, Mr. Feijóo, as you said: Do we have less agricultural employment than before? Yes. Do we have fewer investigators than before you ruled? Yes. Do we have less rural population than before you ruled? Yes, much less. Do we have less land to produce from before you ruled? Yes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u41	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u42	...we have much less, Mr. Feijó. Do we have the messed-up pile? Yes, we have, Mr. Feijó. What did you do in ten years? A black decade. You're a problem for the Italian countryside. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u43	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Close the question, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u44	Look, we've had occasions in the debate about the state of Autonomy talking about rural, and you haven't said anything. And now he comes here because from time to time there's a question to ask. Of course, as now as we have to ask a question, you have to talk about the countryside, and I'm delighted. Young people incorporated into agricultural activity, the first in Spain, sixty-five million euros invested. Yes, Your Honor. But does it bother you that we have good news? [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor, Galicia's strategic plan for the CAP, do you know that the CAP has never been paid before than with this government? We are strengthening the competitiveness of farms, Your Honor. He just left today, for example, in La Voz de Galicia, which we produced twice as much milk, twice as much milk as has never been produced in the country. And why don't you accept that data? Because he doesn't like it. We have quality stamps that have never been in the country. We have more presence in the territory. And why don't you talk about fires, isn't that rural? When we rule, gentlemen, the average acres burned in Galicia is twenty thousand acres, and when the progressives rule in forty-one thousand, double. And you speak of the fact that the mountain is not ordained. Never so much wood has been sold, though much remains to be done. There's never been a forest industry in Galicia like there is now. The Galician Union never had an agency for the forest industry, like it's now. But, Your Honor, why don't you accept that since we got to the Government, we have increased production by twenty-eight percent? Twenty-eight percent, do you think little? There has never been a muscle as powerful in the dairy sector as now, there have never been as many cooperatives as now, there has never been as much dairy processing industry as now, Your Honor. Why don't you accept that data? [[Applause]] Your Honor, why don't you accept that we have a 37.5 percent more wine production than ten years ago when we get to the government? There has never been so much wine of as quality and with as much export as now. Why don't you take it? Three thousand tons more beef, we're now producing that when we get to the government, three thousand tons a year more. In fishing, 7.8 percent more annual discharges than when the progressive Government was; a 4.4 percent more billing. We are the second power in the world in canned, after Thailand, and growing. We have a frozen industry, the best in Europe. And you keep talking about rural? Let me quote a great leader of his party who was talking about rural: "Most of the country is urban, but a rural Galicia is sold for political purposes. We are an urban country, but then the policies that are implemented are others." These words – even more, uh! – are of the highest institutional representative who had the Tides in Galicia, the highest institutional representative. Yes, yes, yes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you want me to quote all the paragraphs? He laughs at rural saying that Galicia is urban and that we're wasting our time investing in rural. That's the highest representative we've ever had in the Tides of Podemos. By the way, a rather polite person than you. I insist: if the highest representative who had the Tide of Podemos in a democratic institution thinks this is rural, do you ask me this question for what?, to cover the file or to make a call to the next demonstration, as did the BNG, you and your partners now? I'd be glad to talk. But I'm telling you one thing and I'm telling you again: the Greek countryside isn't the lawn of the Complutensian, and the Greek countryside isn't Galapagar either. [[Laughter]] Your Honor, the German countryside is the thirty-four thousand nuclei of population that we have in Galicia. We're going to defend the Greek countryside, that's where we were born, that's where we came from. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] That's the rural of our country, the rural of Galicia. Can you please Galician countryside with you? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u45	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u46	Can you be sure that we will always defend rural against this kind of absolutely urbanist criteria? The answer is yes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u47	Thank you. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Gonzalo Caballero Míguez, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the views of the Government of Greece regarding the results of its management in the field of public health after eleven years of government
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u48	Mr. Knight has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Feijóo, small interventions of post-truth want to build you in Galicia!, small deliberate distortions, lies and liars that you move to a country that no longer believes! Your speech, Mr. Feijóo, lacks the slightest truth possible. In a country where since you rule, there are many fewer people working. There are 50,000 less people working in Galicia since you arrived, while in Spain the number of people working, the workers, are many more. That's the tip of the iceberg that shows its disaster, that of someone who's ruled by spending over 100 billion euros without updating, more than 200 billion euros during its government if we update them. Of course things have been done! But you leave us a much worse Galicia. And you don't want to talk about health, Mr. Feijóo, because that's where you have the skills, that's where you show your biggest failure, that's where you show the biggest refusal on the street, where two billion Greeks and Greeks that we use public health know about the cuts, the dismantling, the disaster of your management. Of course there's a majority coming out of the street! He's out in all of Galicia. And you don't want to listen to her. He doesn't want to hear it when he's told about Pediatrics in Catóira, in Cee, in Fistra, in Zas, in Abadín, in Moeche, in Mañón, in the Bridges, in Ares, in Mugardos, in the Island, in Ribadumia, in so many places! Are you all wrong, Mr. Feijóo? And when they tell you about health centers in the street, in Ribadavia, in Grove, in Caldas, in Antas, in Vilagarcia, in Bouzas, in Chantada, in Cangas, in Ponteareas, are you all wrong, Mr Feijóo? And when they tell you about family doctors in Cañiza, in Guarda, in Cariño, in Baralla, in May, in Meis et cetera, are you all wrong, Mr. Feijóo? And when citizens go out to the streets talking about ambulances, about emergency problems, saturated, CHOP, Ferrol, Barbanza, Santiago, are they all wrong, Mr. Feijóo? [[Applause]] And when they talk about experts at Salnès, Valdeorras, the Navy, the Verín, are they all wrong? And when there have been deaths in recent times in Galicia, one without medical assistance, another for ambulance problems, don't you have to give him a change response? You didn't recognize the public health problems until recently. I met with you two years ago when I was elected secretary general of the Socialist Party, and I transferred my deep concern for what was going on in public health. And you moved me that version of posterity, where everything is fine and where everything is idyllic. From here on, your position has changed; it has changed because it has the country against the policies of the People's Party, even the People's Party against its health policies. Baltar said, "I've been told by concellers who vote in the villages, who go to the demonstrations." These are your parishes, Mr. Feijóo, the parishes of the People's Party, which you try to keep quiet with the funds of the Galician Union, but which do not allow you to continue with the cuts. Mr. Feijóo, he doesn't want to explain to us that this is the reinforced informed consent of what he spoke to Verín. He doesn't want to explain to us why he wants to put a morbid law on public health so people can't put up posters that say "In defense of Welsh public health." And he doesn't want it, because with those posters and massive mobilisation we managed to put it on you against the ropes and correct it in Verín. Without those moves, Verin would have the parlor closed today, and he would keep closing the parlors, because you said he was listening to the doctors and doing what the doctors said. But when doctors ask you not to attend more than thirty patients a day, when they ask you for ten minutes per consultation, when they ask you to have a doctor's card that doesn't have more than 200 cards, you don't listen. And don't listen to any nurses. A nurse, Sea, Navy, thirty days in November, twenty-seven days working, twenty-seven labor contracts. Is that Galicia that you represent and that you say you defend before this rostrum?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u50	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u51	Is that the future you offer to the country? You have no commitment to health, because you have the People's Party's jacket. He's here to defend the most conservative positions in the country. And if you're talking about the top representatives of the different organizations, you're talking about their top representatives, Aznar, Rajoy, Casado -- they're the ones who had the greatest representation of the PP -- and also what they did when they were ruling in Spain and dedicated public funds to reserved funds, to cover up the scissors of their party's treasury. And you tell me, who was in that board of directors, Mr. Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u52	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u53	We're going to tell you that when you don't want to talk about the country's problems, and try to spread responsibilities to others, the People's Party has no capacity to teach anyone in this country, Mr. Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u54	Thank you, Mr. Knight. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u55	This could be the headline: "Methin of the briefest era of Mr Caballero's Part-Employee." You come here, you talk about what you want, you say what you consider appropriate. [[Applause]] Start talking about unemployment... current and 3,000 unemployed less than when we get to the government! This lord of the Socialist Party, stop talking! He talks about unemployment when we've just heard the unemployment data, which are the worst since 2013 of the Socialist Party, and he talks about unemployment! Galicia is the second autonomous community that has dropped the unemployment rate in the last 12 months, and has come to talk to me about unemployment! It's a funny thing, Your Honor. [[Applause]] It's something amazing. Your Honor, look at Galicia's activity rate and you'll see that it's better than we had when we get to the government. But since this is about public health -- I'm claiming -- I'm interested in public health. I understand, Your Honor, that you will never be enough to say that I am proud of Galician public health. Every time you ask me about public health, you give me that opportunity to say: I'm proud of the 30,000 professionals who practice one of Europe's best public health, gentlemen. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, any attempt to destabilize public health will be met with most of Galicia to defend it. I'm proud to be a Greek, yes, of Galician public health. I'm proud because the Greeks today have better services and we have less expectations. We have, in historical data, the smallest wait for a consultation, twenty-seven days less than when you were in government; one wait for a surgical intervention, fifteen days less than when you were in government; the smallest wait for serious diseases, half of what you expected when you were in government, and quick ways for serious illnesses, in which the average is 7.7 days waiting, and the fast roads, and you didn't have them when you were in government. I'm proud that there's a law that guarantees more rights for the Greeks, and I'm proud that those rights are now welcome, and that they didn't exist before. They are the rights to choose a hospital, to elect a specialist, to elect a pediatrician, to elect a nurse, and also to maintain the right, of course, of a head doctor. I am proud, Your Honor, of the maximum times of waiting, which did not exist when you ruled. And we've been intervening thousands of people according to those maximum waiting times. I'm proud of the health centers. You tell me about the health centers that are missing. You want me to leave them the health centers we've done? Sixty-six built, ten running and ten other sound slopes. Yes, Your Honor, they're here. [[Murmurs.]] It's just that I don't have time to read them, but I leave them to the President of the House so you can see that there have never been more health centers than now. [[Applause]] I am proud, Your Honor, of the eighty-seven million euros that we invest in technology. Do you know that when we got to Junta there was a linear accelerator that didn't radiate, but it was burning? I was burning. And we had to turn it off and treat the rest of the patients in twenty-four hours, including the night shift, because we had an accelerator in a hospital that you let it not go off, but it was burning. It's the way. But there comes a moment, Mr. Knight, that you should be a little more prudent. Ladies and gentlemen, I am proud to build two new hospitals in Galicia in the midst of an economic crisis. I am proud to present and approve and agree with the mayor of the Crown the largest public hospital ever held in the history of the province of the Crown. I am proud, Your Honor, to make the largest public hospital ever held in Pontevedra province in Vigo. [[Applause]] And I'm proud to be able to start the whole remodeling of Pontevedra hospital in the coming months. I'm proud in every health area of doing a new hospital or expanding that hospital. I'm proud, Your Honor, of the Hemodynamics twenty-four hours in Lugo and Ourense I'm proud of the hospital at home... what are you laughing at, ladies, if you've been in government for four years and you haven't put a section of Hemodynamics twenty-four hours anywhere? [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u56	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u57	But ladies, what are you laughing at? It's something amazing. [[Applause]] I am proud, Your Honor, of the treatment of hepatitis C for all patients in Galicia. I'm proud of the new Oncology treatments, which I've never seen in Galicia. I'm proud of the first Program against the stroke, which has never been in the autonomous community. I am proud, Your Honor, that today there are three thousand and four hundred professionals working more in public health than when we get to the government. I'm proud of the professional career of professionals.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u58	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u59	I'm proud, Your Honor, of that public health that you're so disabling, so critical, so disparaging. Your Honor, let me come here to blame the pediatricians. A gentleman who has been in government for two years and has been unable to increase the training squares of Pediatrics in the country! But you don't have a bit of a shame?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u60	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u61	You're responsible for autonomic presidents that there are no pediatricians in Spain. But do you really not know that the Ministry of Health is the only competent authority to establish how many pediatric training places can be approved in the State? [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Knight...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u62	You're done, President. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u63	...if you want to talk about health seriously, if you want, without time, without limit. If you want... - no, I have very little time here to contradict you, Your Honor. If you want to talk about public health, anytime. And if you want to remember what they've done in public health for four years, that, Your Honor, also whenever you want. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u64	Thank you, President. Replica, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u65	Mr. Feijóo, you of economics know nothing, nothing, nothing; that's how the country goes, no industrial policy, no employment policy, and it wants to cheat continuously. [[Murmurs.]] I don't have time to explain much more to you about the economy, but I do have time to tell you not to go wrong. Today, in Galicia, there are many fewer workers working than when you arrived. And in a country where you leave the country without workers, there's fewer people, there's less income, there's worse funding for social services, there's less country. [[Applause]] That's what you have to assume as the biggest problem of your government, which has not generated a job, which has not had the ability to use Greek citizenship and that Galicia loses people in rural, urban, by its policies. And I'll take your word. You just said at the parliamentary headquarters that you'll talk about health whenever you want and for as long as you want. I place the President of the Board in this parliament to hold a monographic debate on Welsh health. Don't hide and come to this parliament, that on that occasion we'll be willing to replicate all that data to you very often. [[Applause]] Whenever you want to come in, Mr. Feijóo, because whenever you come in, the Secretary General of the Socialist Party will be to come in and show you a different Galicia. And I'll tell you more, Mr. Feijóo: we have no complex. Look, you want to throw balloons out. He says he is very proud; proud of the announcements, that he has now announced a hospital for La Coruña in electoral time; proud of what he does in Verin retreating for political time; proud of what you must retreat. And the truth is that all of your position is a position that shows that you are very concerned, that you, Mr. Feijóo, already know that the majority social of 2019 in all the elections - you who speak of so much majority and so much support from the Greeks - have taken all the right away from you. And we're going to defend Galicia, Mr. Feijóo. You're avoiding being the president of all the Greeks and all the Greeks. You're no longer in a position to solve this country's problems in the next few years. Because the problem of Galicia, Mr. Feijóo, is not your speech on the VE, the problem of Galicia is you, it's the health policies of your Government, its failure in rural areas, its isolation on the urban scene, which leaves a Galician with less working population, which leaves a Galician with older people and a deficit in public residences, which makes a lot of election campaigns, which is what you are, in the campaign of lies, in the continuing campaign, in the myth that you make using the power of the Union to transfer an unreal truth. [[Murmurs.]] And the problems are going to be solved by a new government, a government in Galicia that is already making you look back on fundamental issues in the country and a government that will show commitment to public health, to the rural environment, to employment, to industrial policy that you don't do. Because you, Mr. Feijóo, don't want to assume your responsibilities after eleven years of failure of government, and you only have the speech of "the blame is on the Government of Madrid." And he's wrong, because he already said it in 2019, and the Greeks spoke, and they voted for that Government of Madrid according to which you took seven hundred million away at that time, who was disloyal to Galicia. And we are only committed: the commitment of the Greeks, of seven hundred thousand Greeks who saw as a socialist government raising their pensions, more than 100,000 public workers who saw as if they had their payrolls, eighty-five thousand Greek workers who saw how to raise the minimum inter-professional wage have higher pay, [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u66	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u67	...with a new policy of ecological transition. By the way, the back regulation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u68	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u69	... which is one of those lies that you say - that applies is the law of the People's Party and the regulation of the People's Party. The responsibilities are yours too, they're not yours. [[Murmurs.]] And in every respect, Mr. Feijóo, you are on a continuous escalation of lies. And what you have to tell the country is to clarify what the electoral scene is, when you're going to call the elections to speak to the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I know that the PP bench doesn't like to talk about elections, that some of us don't repeat and go home! [[Protests.]] So don't worry, think calm.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u70	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u71	Mr. Feijó, tell the Greeks and the Greeks when the election will be. Then you decide if you want to be a candidate or if you don't want to be a candidate; that's a PP thing. But the electoral scene, which you're talking about so much about most of the country, would be very good if now that we start 2020 to clarify it at once, so that a new majority of Galicia can move to the polls what she's telling you on foot in the country against its cuts and its disaster.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u72	Thank you, Mr. Knight, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u73	Let Galicia talk about the electoral time you decide. But tell me when he's going to convene the elections that will take him out of power.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u74	Thank you, Mr. Knight. Close the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u75	Mr. Caballero, if you had looked at the face of your Members and Members!... I'm just a poem. [[Laughter]] Are you really coming here to talk about health care? Is that how important it is to health the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and its branch here in Galicia? If you don't care about health, if you come here for anything else. You're talking about economics, which we don't know about economics, but the biggest gross domestic product in Galicia's history is this: sixty-two billion euros. You're talking about economy; you've never exported companies as much as now, twenty-one billion euros, with a surplus of the last four years. You speak of economics, Your Honor, and you say that there are fewer people working and we have lost 100,000 Greeks for vegetative balance No, Your Honor, because there is no work. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But fuck you! [[Protests.]] They won't let you teach in college, Your Honor. Because they just died more than they were born. Nonsense, Your Honor, because there's no work! [[Laughter]] If forty thousand more people have entered Galicia than they've been since we've been in government. [[Applause]] You, Your Honor, have forgotten everything. And you come here now to say that we want to talk about health. Nice to meet you. But if you've been here for three years without coming to this parliament, pick up your record. And you wanted to talk about health a gentleman who doesn't come to pick up his record? And did you want to talk about health when we built and set up a Commission for Public Health and the Socialist Party does not appear in the committee? But is that the health joke you're talking about? [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor, this is what I found when I arrived at Vigo in 2009 as president of the Galician Union, at Vigo hospital so many times promised by the Socialist Party, and not a meter, not even transmitted. [[Mr. Núñez Feijóo shows a photograph to the socialist bench.]] No, no, this is the picture, yes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] This is what we started doing: expropriating against the Vigo Town Hall because they wouldn't let us do the hospital. And this is the result, Your Honor, the best public hospital built in Spain. [[Mr. Núñez Feijó showed the House a photograph.]] This is the picture of what we do in health care. [[Applause]] I bring you a few pictures of places you know. For example, Gondomar, this was the health center we found when we arrived at Gondomar, a fairly old health center, by the way, and this is the new health center that we ended up in Gondomar, Your Honor. [[Mr. Núñez Feijóo shows a photograph to the socialist bench.]] [[Mr. Núñez Feijó showed a photograph to the House.]] I'll bring you three because I don't have much more time. [[Murmurs.]] This is what we find ourselves in the Coruña, Your Honor, and this is what we're going to do in Coruña. [[Mr. Núñez Feijóo shows a photograph to the socialist bench.]] Yes, Your Honor. [[Mr. Núñez Feijó showed a photograph to the House.]] That's it. [[Applause]] But don't worry, Mr. Knight, we don't leave models. But, ladies, don't get nervous... they said the same thing to me in Ferrol; in construction. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u76	Quiet, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u77	The same was said to me at the new public hospital in Pontevedra; auctioned. And in Coruña we will begin this year the works of the public hospital of Coruña. That's what I can tell you, Your Honor. [[Applause]] Your Honor, after this glorious rally you just gave us, but if the maximum you can get here are fourteen votes. Not even if there are people in the Socialist Party who have my doubts that they vote for it. Of course, voters of the Socialist Party in the generals say goodbye to most of them. The other day you did, which is not in the campaign as logical, an announcement in the press. We've all seen it. Surprised! It was a great page in all the Galician media, grabbed Pedro Sanchez, and put "Thank you." [[Laughter]] I said, is this a joke or is it true? No, it's true. Mr. Knight appears in a selfi with Pedro Sánchez saying "Thank you." Thanks for what? [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor, you speak of public health. Do you know how much your self-serving fellow owes us? Three hundred seventy million euros. Do you know that with that debt we can do the full hospital of the Coruña, remodel the military hospital of the Coruña, remodel the sea hospital of Oza, of the Coruña, and completely equip the new public hospital of the Coruña...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u78	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u79	...of the 300 seventy million euros we owe? [[Applause]] Do you know, Your Honor, that with the 300 million euros you owe us your selfi partner, we can pay for full expansion and make the new public hospital in Pontevedra and the new public hospital in Ferrol? Do you know, Your Honor, that you come here to tell us the accounts of the great captain? But, look, if there's no sensible leader of the Socialist Party anymore...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u80	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u81	...who will not denounce the central government for default to autonomous communities.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u82	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u83	This morning Mr. Lambán: "I would incur irresponsibility if I did not present the complaint." A few days ago, Mr. Page denouncing the Central Government. And you keep holding Peter Sanchez so hard, that he's the only one left. [[Murmurs.]] But, Mr. Knight, I've been working on politics for a long time, and I've been president of the Union for eleven years. I've never seen a Socialist Party like this. The Socialist Party is gone! He doesn't exist in Galicia! The Spanish Socialist Workers Party is underground. Now there's the Socialist Party of Sánchez, and the Socialist Party of Galicia disappears too. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u84	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u85	Now there's the Socialist Party of Sánchez in Galicia. But I've already told you, Your Honor, stop making the Socialist Party in Galicia a pet by Mr. Sánchez. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u86	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u87	With those 370 million that we owe, we make the public hospital of the full Coruña, we remodeled two full hospitals, Pontevedra and Ferrol's. And you're here to talk about public health? Stop rhymeing!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u88	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u89	And stop taking people's hair, Your Honor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u90	Thank you. Let's continue with non-law proposals. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. On the initiative of Mr Martín Fernández Prado and eight other Members, on the measures to be taken in Galicia to demand from the Spanish Government to correct the decision to leave the railway stations of Ortigueira, Burela, Sarria, Viveiro, The Carballiño, Ribadavia, Guillarei and Round it and take the appropriate measures to ensure the maintenance of this service at the affected stations
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u91	An amendment was tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group and by the Group of the German Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u92	Mr. Rodríguez Pérez has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u93	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. And greet also the neighbours of the Road, rural women, in the legislating of the countryside. Before starting this non-law—interesting, important—proposal yesterday in this plenary, Mr Bará—which I would like you to look at in my eyes—he made some statements that we understand were serious...—please—but I'm going to give him the reason for one thing. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You said that if you were doing illegal works in Mos, that if you were doing works without any kind of license; and you're all right in the world, you didn't have a license, you have two licenses. [[Murmurs.]] [[Mr. Bará Torres utters words that are not perceived.]] Look, in my village, they say, "papeis calan mouths." [[Mr. Rodríguez Pérez shows a document.]] So I'm going to give the President of Parliament this document and please apologize to the mayor of Mos and to the neighbors and neighbors of Mos. [[Applause]] It's not all political. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u94	To the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u95	Mr. Knight is gone. Mr. President... this matter... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u96	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u97	Calm down! We put forward this non-law proposal — on the subject —
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u98	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u99	Patricia Vilan, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u100	Quiet, please. Let's go easy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u101	This parliamentary group has tabled a non-law proposal of great interest to our Autonomous Community, to Galicia, which we hope to achieve unanimously, which would be the normal, the right, the desirable. This proposal complements the question we asked in the past full to the advisor, after knowing the Spanish Government's intention to leave without service the sale of face-to-face tickets at several train stations in our community as of December 31, 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent months we have seen several incidents and cancellations occur in railway services in Galicia. The Galician Union is continuing its follow-up to how these services are being provided and demanding improvements to the Central Government in this railway infrastructure. According to Renfe's official transfer, the intention — if it is materialized — to provide the current service at eight railway stations in our community: in Coruña, Ortigueira; in Lugo, Burela, Sarria and Viveiro; in Ourense, The Carballiño and Ribadavia; and, in Pontevedra, Roundola and Guillerei, in Tui. The truth is, ladies and gentlemen, since we registered this initiative there has been some novelty, yes, but no significant or definitive progress and, above all, no reassuring. What we want from this parliamentary group is definitive plans by the Central Government of Mr Sánchez for the face-to-face ticket sales services, once he has communicated the decision to keep them in a presence as an interim measure. The Galician Union has asked the institutional representative of Renfe in Galicia for information on the plans it handles; what we demand are definitive solutions, we don't want any more patches. The sad story, ladies and gentlemen, is that the investment agreement to support Pedro Sánchez de Teruel exists — remind them that Galicia too — including the extension of the closure of the service at these stations until June 30th. From then on, as Renfe has reported, signing agreements with the municipalities to provide support staff for the stations. Unbelievable what I'm going to say! We're talking about user support and advice personnel on buying tickets on machines, not face-to-face ticket sales staff. A patch! Like the patch of transferring a state responsibility to the municipalities. On the other hand, Renfe reported that Adif's bidding contracts are under way to maintain the face-to-face ticket sales services at some stations: Carballino, Ribadavia, Guillerei and Sarria. We're talking about contracts with an expiration date, which do not guarantee service for more than a year. So the central government, once again, offers no solutions; what it offers are interim measures, patches, provisional measures. What we want, the Galician Junta, this parliamentary group, is something clear and something concrete: that the Central Government responds to the demands of the Greeks and the Greeks, that it march back on the dismantling of the present-day sales service that it is doing at the German train stations, and that it assumes the commitment to maintain the sale of present tickets beyond June 30 or at the end of the year. We don't want measures that expire. Ladies and gentlemen, already in 2016 there was news pointing to the transvasion of the present sales channel, Adif and Renfe — this seems to be a divorce — the abandonment of the ticket service at several train stations, a service in small towns in Galician rural areas. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, this PNL is a proof of coherence of its own lordships. I have here the two interpelerations, questions, of In Marea, of the Galician Nationalist Block, of the Socialist Party. I have to say — without any precedent — that what you're talking about and this parliamentary group agrees with what you said in 2017. [[Mr. Rodríguez Pérez shows some documents.]] But we'll be very careful about your interventions, because lately you're a little variable, they're a little velvety. Ladies and gentlemen, if we all work together, it is possible to rectify this harmful policy of the Central Government with Galicia on railway services. So, ladies and gentlemen, in 2017, a Welshman, Mariano Rajoy, with all the pressure moved from different administrations to Galician Union, who had direct contact with state officials. And also the unanimous stance of this parliament has resulted in Adif abandoning the plan to close the sale of face-to-face tickets at these railway stations. In this case, now in 2020, the Union has moved this problem. This is the legislation of the countryside. From this parliamentary group we consider this matter extremely important, since the decision by the Spanish Government to leave the sale of banknotes without service will entail a decrease in the quality of services to citizens, a clear prejudice to the neighbours of these councils, a fall back on the objective of territorial vertebration and social cohesion, which should guide all the action of the entire public administration. However, there is a dehumanization of the service, machines that replace people. The curious thing is that then we all say with an open mouth: empty Spain; the socialists would take it away, and solve the issue; it's a progressive action, a word that solves everything. Ladies and gentlemen, rail communication is a fundamental part of mobility, now and always. Moreover, towards the Holy Year of Jacob, in which thousands of pilgrims will come to Galicia, we must be prepared, we must be predictable and not wait until it arrives. Don't catch the train! Now that we all pretend to be the most eco-friendly in the world, the train — reorder — contributes to reducing the traffic of vehicles with the consequences of emissions to the atmosphere. The railway is a public service and as such it must not be rejected by economic and business factors, as it contributes to territorial vertebration. [[Murmurs.]] I don't know what to laugh about, ladies and gentlemen, it's the fish that bites the tail. If we face a demand problem, instead of improving the supply, what we do is, of course, reduce it, what we do is make the problem worse. We also now hope that the Government of Mr. Sánchez, supported by all of you, will do the same as did the Government of Mariano Rajoy: meet a social and institutional demand from the Greeks and leave the decision to close the face sale of tickets at these train stations in our community. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u102	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Pérez. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u103	Good morning. The People's Party's initiative suggests that this closure of sales offices does not meet the objective of providing quality and proximity rail services, mainly to rural citizens; very well. It also says that it is a fallback in the objective of territorial vertebration and social cohesion, that it should guide the action of the entire public administration; perfect. But do you really want to tell us that this government and this party when you were in the state government also did something to offer quality and proximity rail services in Galicia? Really? And did they do something for this purpose? Do you want to tell us that they have ever targeted Galician territorial vertebration through the railway? Did I really tell you? They may have been governments of similar ideology to their own, but in the 19th century, which was when this network was built. We agree that we must maintain the ticket and passenger service, of course we agree. But the most important thing is that there are trains and a good service for those who sell tickets, because why will they sell tickets if there are no trains? We have an internal network — as I have already commented — of interconnection with 19th-century Portugal; even the 1864 line A Coruña-Lugo — I believe it is — and a lack of total proximity, one of the few autonomys that has no network of neighborhoods. And that's really where our amendments go, which we believe they complement their proposal in a more ambitious way, and hopefully they can be approved. First of all, to develop studies to truly have a near and proximity rail strategy in Galicia and then to start with concrete work, which could be done mainly in the lines A Coruña-Ferrol, A Coruña-Lugo, Lugo-Monforte-Ourense, and the southern exit towards Portugal. For lack of time, I will only mention aspects of two of these narrations. Coruña-Ferrol, a line also from the 19th century, the slowest in Spain at medium speed. Well actually with an investment similar to fifteen kilometers of AVE could serve nearly a million passengers a year, just a little less than expected for AVE to Madrid in a whole year. It could reduce by less than half the hundred and twenty thousand vehicles entering the city of Coruña one day. I don't know if you've ever travelled from Coruña to Ferrol by train, you know you've got stops in practically the whole metropolitan area, even at the university. People could get from Ferrol to college in about 18 minutes. And I'm not talking about AVE, at least, I'm talking about a train of about 100 miles an hour, which meant an investment of less than 300 million euros. This is really going to bet on an ecological transition. Then, the southern exit of Vigo, which is neither spoken nor expected. Well, it could be linked to the jobs that are already being done in Portugal, which are moving at a very good pace. Do you imagine the socio-economic possibilities that you could get from Porto to Vigo in fifty minutes and the Compostela in half an hour? For example, in the case of tourism — and we talked about it yesterday to the Tourism Cluster — it would probably be more important to capture foreign tourism the link with an airport with dozens of international direct flights that even the link to AVE to Madrid; more foreign tourists could enter that way than by the Madrid AVE. And deciding to push these priorities is what In Marea calls sovereignism, which is what both the People's Party and the Socialist Party from Galicia when they ruled in the state should have exercised. Because we also have to decide on the state's investments in Galicia. That's what we understand for sovereignty. Probably, if the parties we define ourselves as sovereigns had more representation in this chamber as well as in the state, in Galicia there would be less AVE but more proximity. We would probably save money if we had really done rational VAS planning and with a complete internal network 200 kilometres an hour — which is what is done in France, for example — because we would probably get to Madrid 20 minutes later — well, it would have to take another 20 minutes, but we would free three billion euros to develop the entire network of Galicia. That is to have goals of territorial vertebration and social cohesion that you are asking for in your initiative. That's why I am going to accept our amendment, which really does go in line with what you're proposing. Because, I say, I have ticket sales offices without trains and with the ability to give that service because, yes, it seems good not to destroy the service, but really the operation it would have would be really minimal. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u104	Thank you, Mr. Casal. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u105	There's a saying that "can much ruinous bark is for the house," and this saying is very welcome to the People's Party and to what Mr. President of the Board said here. And Mr. Moisés Rodríguez is worried about what I said yesterday in the debate. I don't know if you didn't like the speech of your spokesman, who has to amend it here, but I ratify myself fully in everything I said. That process is plagued with irregularities. And if there's no prevarication -- I told you yesterday -- it's rocking the pole. It's like that, yeah. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's just that you've been picking them up on potatoes on a lot of occasions on this subject. And when they realized that licenses only covered a part of the works, they presented an infrastructure plan. And what I told you is that they publicly presented a project that is conditioned by the modification of the general plan, and that's an absolute scandal, that's going over the law. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And also that the president of the board publicly says that Urbanism is already working to fix, to speed up the whole process of a project that favours private interests, which is a scandal, which is thought to have the Celta have a new stadium and that can negotiate with it, that can sell the club and that you can make a big commercial surface. And we don't communicate with mill wheels.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u106	Let's go to the train.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u107	Yeah, let's go. Even though we have to acknowledge that we are moved and moved to the BNG for this sudden conversion that the People's Party had in defense of the railway. This is a purpose of amendment, a correction, what happens is that it is a purpose of amendment to the whole, to all of what they've been doing so far while they've had responsibilities of government. [[Applause]] Or do you think we're fools here, that we fall from a fifth? You are the most responsible for the catastrophic situation of rail discrimination in Galicia. And you were quiet and quiet when Mr. Rajoy's Government applied what they called it — as it was — the rationalization plan, which was an annihilation plan. Because the main problem isn't that there's no ticket sales, the main problem is that there are no trains, that don't pass trains through stations, that in Carballiniño there's only one service back and back and in Ribadavia two. So what are we talking about? You've eliminated the trains, the service of the trains, and now you're anxious to defend the tickets. Well, we're all right, but they're late. They had to do it when those services were removed at those stations. Look, the suppression of twenty stations, the suppression of 1,776 stops, twenty-three trains a week between A Coruña and Ferrol, fourteen between A Coruña, Lugo and Monforte, twenty-six between Ourense and Santiago, fourteen between Vigo and Ourense. What did you do then? I'll tell you what they did, because then I was a spokesperson for the People's Party. Do you know who? A gentleman named Román Rodríguez. And you know what he said? He said the cuts are all logical because of the budget situation, social demand and the real use of the service. And he said the train was a competition for companies, for small public transport companies in Galicia. That was the philosophy, that was the speech of the People's Party in 2012 and 2013, when Mr. Rajoy rolled the surrounding train, the conventional railway in Galicia. What happened? Well, you're submissive and helpful, and you're using Galicia as a currency of exchange. And you when you rule yours in Madrid are quiet and when you rule others look like the partisans here, you just need them to put the anthem Bella ciao. But you swallowed it all. And you also watched the creation of the neighbourhood service in Galicia. What are you telling me? First it was approved in this parliament, then you have proposed a project to create the German railway force and make a railway law, and you have not been able to get that transfer, while other communities have it and there are eleven communities in this country that have a nearby railway service. So the first thing they should do is to get out here and ask for forgiveness and make a public correction for everything they've destroyed, for everything they've dismantled, and because you're the main ones responsible, not the only ones, but the main ones responsible for discrimination and railway aggravating with Galicia, which has to do with a lot more than selling tickets. You also have to see that we have a chu-chu train — it can't be called any other way — between Lugo and La Coruña, between Ferrol and La Coruña, between Ferrol and Ribadeo; that we have the most expensive tickets; that we have a shortage of services; that we have trains left on the way, that are breaking every two by three. And, of course, the BNG will give that battle in defense of the railway, as it has been giving it so far, rule some or govern others, and that is why we put this issue in that investment agreement, which so bothers you, which has made it clear today to the President of the Union, that they do not sleep thinking of this agreement, that it is a historic and beneficial agreement for this country, and that's why it bothers you, that's why it bothers you. [[Applause]] And if you want the Greek copy, you have it, too, if you have problems with the Spanish, because now -- I don't know -- they're also anxious to defend the Greek. [[Murmurs.]] Therefore, political battle for the railway and, of course, we will support this initiative, but we have also taken a lot more than this one to the State Parliament and we will fight in the streets, in the mobilizations and also in the institutions so that this country has a railway as it deserves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u108	Thank you, Mr Bará. Joint Left Group, Mr. Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u109	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all and good day to the visitors too. We are, of course, going to support this initiative, there is already a consensus on this when in 2016 with the Government of Mariano Rajoy there was the same threat and we will support it. Mr. Rodríguez said he was waiting for Mr. Sánchez to do the same thing as Mr. Rajoy. We hope that you will refer only to this, because if you refer to railway policies in Galicia, what you are telling you is that you want Mr Sánchez to invest zero euros in new railway activities in Galicia, which is what the Government of Mariano Rajoy did. And we hope that it does not refer to the irregular financing of the People's Party either. Because before we got the attention of Mr. President, but he didn't say it to our group, he told the judges and told him the security bodies of the state, that the People's Party has a fraudulent structure with which it has been financing irregularly for decades. That's what Justice says, and it's about state security bodies, it's not about our group. So we hope that Sánchez doesn't do the same thing as Mariano Rajoy. Of course, welcome to the railway defense speech, welcome, we very much appreciate this speech. What's wrong? Which is obviously not credible, because you're doing the same thing with the echo speech as well. You don't deny climate change anymore, but you're still doing the same things. You here defend the railway, but the reality of your political action is that you were the decommissioners of the railway. You said: we all pretend to be ecologists. Of course, you're just presuming; you have to be, too, not just bragging. We all remember in 2016 what the Government of Galicia did. We all remember how the Counselor was hidden from the moment when the closure was announced until they were said to be kept silent. We all remember that the advisor was hidden and didn't give a single statement and left you behind because of the pressure that was generated in the affected neighborhoods, the same way that happened in Marín or Verín, or with the Touro mine, with the golf course Baredo and that we hope it will happen in Tameiga as well. The only thing the People's Party is moving, of course, on this issue is electoralism, because the reality of the concern about the railway service tells us, the data tell us that they don't care about anything to maintain a quality railway service and that you don't bet on the railway to back up, to bet on the right to mobility, to fight climate change. They haven't been betting in the last few decades, we don't think you're going to bet on now, and we think this is just an electionist initiative, which is what you do: advertising and propaganda. Because you guys over the last few decades have done what they did in the central government has been to reduce public personnel both in Adif and Renfe, until you have an outsourcing of gradual services, walking towards privatization and a privatization that is now accelerating with the release of the lines itself. And this is the railway situation of the last few decades, since the government of Aznar, which has put this system into operation, both in Adif and Renfe, forgetting the public service, except for the AVE. The AVE is no problem with it being a deficit, but the conventional train, which serves 95% of citizenship, which serves to develop the country economically and socially, it dismantled them as long as you've ruled. And the situation that you left in Galicia after these years of government, during the years of government of Mr. Rajoy, who were the most dramatic for the railway in Galicia and the most recent ones, is that they dismantled the service of proximity, bringing a more area grain for the extermination of the rural, years where there was zero investment in new performances in Galicia and we got two sad records in Galicia in railway matter with Mr. Rajoy: the slower train in the state, not one of the slowest; during the government of Mr. Rajoy we managed to have the slower train in the state, La Coruña-Ferrol, a 19th-century infrastructure, which circulates between 52 and 55 kilometres a half an hour, in a fundamental area for the development of Galicia. And we got another sad record: Mariano Rajoy got another sad record for Galicia: the most incidence line in the state, the Ferrol-Ribadeo line, which in 2017 had nine hundred incidences, almost three days, and it's also a line you've already promised in 2003 in the Galicia Plan that they were going to fix it; since 2003 it's been waiting for you. We have Lugo with 19th century infrastructure. Ourense-Vigo needs improvements, offline ports, unplugged south exit. It seems very good to us that you are bringing initiatives from the railway and that your speech is very good, and that you are now defending the conventional train. But it would seem better if I wasn't an electoralist, that I was sincere and that you weren't the main ones responsible for dismantling the railway in Galicia. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u110	Thank you, Mr. Cal. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. Mr. Rodríguez Pérez, as you are sure you know and I believe that the entire parliamentary arch, died yesterday José Luis Cuerda, a magnificent screenwriter and director, responsible for one of the iconic Spanish cinema films: Amanece, which is not very small. And in that film there is a memorable phrase that says, "Give us, saints of heaven, a rather approximate global vision." And this is what you lack, this is what you lack with the politics of the train. They have just told you the speakers who preceded me: welcome to the policy of claiming railway services and train services. By the way, in the afternoon we will have an opportunity to talk more extensively about the specific investments of the Madrid-Galicia high-speed line. But, as you've just been reminded, it seems pretty good that the Galician Union is now following up on the incidences of the conventional railway when, as Mr. Cal just told you, it was a fact that is also known and known, the FEVE line between Ferrol and Ribadeo had nine hundred incidences in 2017, that is, more than three days. So the follow-up seemed at least questionable, when not directly non-existent. And you demand — and you demand with discretion and with reason — the definitive solution, not transitional solutions or patches, if we want to say it in a more colloquial way, and undervalue the solutions that can be made. And, like not!, the investment agreement had to come out, because you must have a warrant: that in each intervention they make some reference to the investment agreement, which allows the existence of a progressive government in Spain. And you say that the issue of Adif and Renfe seems to be a divorce and you seem to be obvious — and the point is that it is obvious consciously, because I am sure you know it perfectly — that it is a matter of legal compliance by European legislation that the necessary separation between the railway infrastructure manager and, to understand us, Renfe, which puts the trains on, which will liberalise itself and have another type of services circulating along the roads. So that divorce is necessary, it's a matter of legal compliance. And you tell me about your intervention that we are variables and that we are sails. I'd say you're oscillating. I don't know if it's the same term, if it means the same, but in any case it reflects — I think quite correctly — what is the position of the People's Party. [[Applause]] And that you come to speak and defend social cohesion and rural legislation is quite funny, but, well, it must also be part of another mantra of obligation to be included in any intervention. And, of course, we have already defended and we are going to defend and continue to defend — because that is coherence — and we are going to support this non-law proposal, because indeed it is a problem that affects railway stations with few passengers and which, of course, is behind a business decision. But the question is that this business decision has in turn behind a public company, and as you say -- but it's not very consistent with what you practice -- public services must be kept regardless of their cost, because they provide services to the population. They also do what they say they do and what they demand. Because this unfair decision is a decision that affects eight stations in Galicia, but it also affects one hundred and forty in total throughout the state; it's not a specific problem of Galicia, it's not an aggravation against Galicia, as you intend to see. As I said, it's a situation that needs to be resolved. I also do not believe that it is necessary to underestimate any solution that can be articulated around agreements, whether with Members or with Town Councils, in order to provide a solution to support that necessary sale of present-day tickets, which does not necessarily require the presence of a person to be carried out effectively. In any case, I was quite grateful for the profusion of photographs of autonomic and national MPs of the People's Party at some station taking pictures in front of the polls, which, by the way, I am convinced that some of them had to tell him where the station was, because I didn't even know where to go. [[Applause]] In any event, and finally, Mr. Rodríguez Pérez, Mrs. Noela Blanco raised a question to the Infrastructure and Mobility Adviser on this same matter in 2017, avoiding, as they said, that she had remained hidden and not face-to-face. I don't have time, but you could review the January 25, 2017 Session Journal to check that the advisor at that time defended, among other things, solutions that at this time seem like barbarity to you, and that's indeed oscillation in the criterion. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u112	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Rodríguez Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u113	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Bará, I don't always want to start with you, but things don't work out in the streets, they solve in the offices and work, and in the parliaments; other things are done in the streets, but things don't work out in the streets. [[Murmurs.]] But I'm going to start because there's a little time for the replica. To say that we are going to reject the amendments, not because we are not in agreement with them, but because this is a proposal that is not a clear law that we only want — which is not a little — to approve the issue of the present sale of tickets; there are other things in which there is consensus on this chamber, there are other points that have already been adopted, which will continue to be approved, but the objective of this LNP is very specific and we do not want to divert attention elsewhere. I want to thank you and I have to acknowledge your coherence, I have asked the question, I recognize it and indeed Mrs. Noela Blanco, Mr. Cal, Mr. Bará, I have the Journal of Sessions and I have read it. To thank the opposition groups for this initiative and this parliamentary group, and now, with the consensus that seems to exist from Parliament, we are going to demand, in every possible way, the continued sale of tickets at train stations. We can't allow this government to make phantom train stations. Many Galician stations are authentic architectural gems, which can have other uses as well, like culture, can be used for other things, but we can't dismantle, we have to enhance. We are convinced that the branch minister is more airports than train stations. We all know, since Abbalos went to Barajas, every day he was on TV, coming drones, that a plane can't take off, that he has to turn around. It seems incredible how opposition groups have shaded their interventions; they could say pets domesticated, but I'm not going to say it, or anesthetics, or almonds. But in 2017 we managed to get the Spanish Government, not headed by Mr. Rajoy, as Mr. Cal says, by Mariano Rajoy — not so difficult — to listen to and take into account the demands of the Greeks and the Greeks. We hope that by 2020 the same will happen. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The sad thing is to listen to their silences, which make a lot of noise, an anesthetic opposition or bought with wallets of everything coming from Madrid. Now for the BNG, it's all right, shut up. You're responsible for giving him the government. In Marea, the Left Joint Group, Socialists, on the bedside table, not to upset his boss. Mr. Knight? Away. One advice: Galicia is more important than the Socialist Party. [[Murmurs.]] We demand solutions, we want the Union to urge the Government of the State to offer solutions. Finally — and finally, President — to remind the Socialist Group, Podemos, Mareas and BNG and all that unites, all who have made possible the investment of Mr Sánchez, who pay, who pay the 370 million that owe us to the IVE of the Greeks, to avoid saying that we have a mighty government with Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u114	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Pérez. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María de la Concepción Burgo López and D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Galicia to resume the construction project of the Museum of the Romanization of Galicia in San Fernando barracks, in Lugo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u115	There are no amendments. To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. I have to confess that it is absolutely exhausting, but also devastating, to have to bring to this plenary, one year after another, a legislate after another, the same subjects. And in this case it's true. [[Applause]] I, who's been here for a while, always remember in this gallery talking about subjects still unresolved. In Lugo, of course, we could talk about the East Round, the Paradai Plan, what we're going to talk about, but in this case we're going to talk about the cultural infrastructure of the Galician Romanization Museum, because it's not the Lugo Romanization Museum, it's the Museum of Romanization for All Galicia, a promise made by the People's Party since 2000. Mr. Rodríguez was now talking about vassals, but how can that be said in front of a government that has been for a year and a little while, when a government that has been in this country for more than ten years does not fulfill most of its promises? But what kind of credibility is that? [[Applause]] How can you talk about others when you have a history of political non-compliance with this magnitude? Because it's not only Lugo, that Lugo too, but many cities. That is the credibility that the People's Party manifests, and that is the credibility that they have and will see and that they are already seeing the neighbours in front of their political work. But finally, we're doing a little history to get back on track of what I'm saying, the years we've been in this situation. In 2001, President Fraga's Government presented the Galician Archeological Heritage Network, where one of the infrastructures was the Galician Romanization Museum in Lugo; 2001. The Government of President Touriño was what really motivated this project, deciding that it was located in San Fernando barracks, an 18th-century barracks, market for the Lugo Town Hall, for 2.4 million, paid by all the lumens, to make a cultural infrastructure. In 2008, a protocol was signed between the Union and the Town Hall of Lugo, so this would be the headquarters and the Union would make the museum. It seems that for this People's Party government what the previous governments say and commitments are not valid. This is not a serious way to carry out politics. President Feijóo promised on several occasions that this infrastructure would be built. Moreover, this parliament unanimously voted in favour in 2009 to do so by an initiative of the Socialist Group, and they all voted, too, you vote, which would make that infrastructure. It's more, in 2010, an idea contest was held for the San Fernando barracks rehabilitation project and the project was licit and ended in 2012; four hundred thousand euros by the way, that you said you invested in this whole project, four hundred thousand euros, which are now no longer useful in this -- I don't know — saving what you want to do, this is no use. They did this project completed in 2012. At that moment they began to say that there were, that they would have - they did nothing - that the economic situation, that we had to wait, that a little longer, that in a few years... well, we trusted, we trusted it, because it seemed a answer due to the fact that to some extent there were economic problems; we trusted, we trusted, the citizens of Lugo, but they will understand that they can no longer trust. In all this process, Junta de Galicia kept saying he was going to do and he kept promising what he was going to do, and he kept saying he would respect his commitment, but in December 2019 the Culture Councillor presented in Lugo to the media what he called a comprehensive project for Lugo's cultural impulse. Look at one thing, gentlemen. This project, which I shall now comment on, refers to two buildings owned by the Town Hall of Lugo, the two properties of the Town Hall of Lugo. Where does this project present the advisor? In front of the media. Did you speak to the mayor before? No, no, no, no. Did you talk to the corporation before, less to the People's Party? No, no, no, no. Do you think that a democratic politician, a democratic ruler, may have these disrespects, these lack of institutional loyalty to a mayor of a corporation elected by citizens? [[Applause]] I mean, in addition to that, illustrated despotism; here we do everything, we say, in front of the management of two buildings in the municipality. As you know, the so-called integral project meant converting San Fernando's barracks into a museum stopper, something absolutely non-existent, invented now, which would cost 10.8 million, and mounting in the Interactive Museum of Lugo History what we think will be a few windows with remnants, because it doesn't give this infrastructure for anything else; an occurrence to conceal the lack of commitment of the Galician board. That's right, to all of us, with so many of the PP who spoke to the whole world; yes, they forgot to talk to the president of Galician Paradores and also forgot to talk to the head of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. Because here we're going to do a bumper, but what you have to do and who has to admit it, which is Tourism Breakers, doesn't know anything about it. I mean, we're going to do it, it's Lugo's great impulse, but, uh, what if Paradors doesn't go into his project to do this? And I wonder, as every Lugo asks: if it was so important, if it will bring so much cultural and economic impulse, why didn't you ask when Rajoy ruled?, why didn't you ask for this in the PP Government, why did you expect a government of the Socialist Party to ask for this, which will save us, by all means, from all the problems? I mean, you have to be a little bit more serious than that, and you don't take us and all the citizens for fools. So, that all of this, this project means, by the way -- I want to tell you too -- that the kind of museum that's thinking about Galician Union is absolutely different from what we all had in mind and what it was planned for and what it has to be a real museum. Because here I think we're going to put a few windows in the dressing room, this hamster, and we're going to put a few windows in the Interactive Museum, because there's no one. But where are the warehouses, the labs, the cataloguing units, the conservation units, where is the investigation? Oh, nowhere. You, here, a few windows and you shut these up, and that's it. Of course, with all this, you will understand, ladies and gentlemen, that no one in Lugo is in favour of this idea, no one. In fact, a citizen platform was formalized in defense of the Museum of Romanization in San Fernando barracks, a platform called Wall, consisting of one hundred twenty collectives, one hundred twenty collectives, among them fifty-three cultural groups in the province, collectives such as the Federation of Commerce of Lugo, the Federation of Neighbors, CEL, Lugo Centrum, Achádego, Monumental Place... I don't know how they think they'll take this forward. Moreover, the situation is such that it already leads to irony and a little to the ground. They probably read in a local media such as a journalist in an opinion paper saying that Mr. Balsairo — who is having a frenzy activity, right?, I am concerned about his health, because it is frenzy, and, in addition, with what he likes the museums, who say that we have the museums—he is in Spanish— "he is meeting with all the groups, association, artistic couple or charanga is willing to listen to the goodness of building in the old barracks a parader instead of a museum. Some fear that, once these interlocutors are exhausted, they will begin to visit the lumens one by one." And he says, "for me it's going to give him the same thing, because, if he doesn't take a Paradors manager, little can be done." And it's true, because this is not accepted by anyone and everyone took it as an exit, an attempt to get out and open debate; the debate opened and made everyone agree that the museum had to be in San Fernando barracks, as they promised, again and again, since 2001. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party — and I'm finished, if I'm done with time — here you're not playing just the Galician Romanization Museum, here you're playing your political credibility, which is at very low times.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Candedo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u118	Good morning, ladies. We will support this non-law proposal for a number of reasons. First of all, because there is a basic consensus about the location of the Museum of Romanization in San Fernando barracks, an important citizen consensus since there has been an already dilated time. Secondly, we do not understand and do not receive unilaterally to break this consensus by the People's Party by proposing this unprecedented modality of para-museum and even by missing this fundamental principle of institutional loyalty on the agreements reached both in this Chamber and with the Council of Lugo in this regard. Thirdly, we agree with the idea that the Romanization Museum, being very important to the city of Lugo, overlooks the interest of the city itself and has it for the whole of the country, so that Greek society knows a very important part of its history. And fourthly, we agree that the definition of this project must foster cultural, tourist and economic growth. We understand that in culture there is also education; it would be an equipment in an infrastructure that is very interesting for their use of education with the schoolchildren in the country. And finally, from our point of view, this project and its development should lead us to a deep reflection on the role of museums in general, which we will soon also have occasion to address. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Candedo. Parliamentary Group Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u120	Thank you, President. Good day again to all and to all. Since the BNG we are going to support this initiative presented today by the PSdeG on the Museum of Romanization or the Galaean-Roman Museum, in fact, because it is a necessary project, as Mrs Burgo said, for the recovery of San Fernando headquarters, which was declared to be of cultural interest in 2009 and, in addition, among other matters, is an extraordinary demonstration of the neoclassical architecture that maintains — it must also be said: not without difficulties — this original structure, which dates, as it was said, from the 18th century. It is a necessary project to recover San Fernando headquarters, but it is also a necessary project as a place of study, research, interpretation and dissemination of the history of our country. And I believe that no one in this chamber can deny the role that Place plays in that Romanization process that Galicia has suffered, and proof of this, in the city of Lugo, is the wall itself, the heritage of humanity, but also the countless archaeological remains that are still found every day in Lugo. It must be remembered, in addition, that there are now thousands, thousands of archaeological remains that are scattered and stored in boxes by absolutely different and diverse places, not only from the city but from the province itself. There are archeological remains in a saturated Museum of the Castro de Viladonga, there are lots of archaeological remains that are placed in boxes, in rocks, in municipal units such as the old prison or others under rent by Galician Union itself, because there is no place to put them. We've been talking about parts of the centuries between I and V, and archaeologists and archaeologists have been claiming this Galaean-Roman museum for depositing and exposing these remains, but especially to be able to study them. Because a museum is not a container, it is a space of knowledge and study that is, in addition, visitable. And there is a consensus — indeed, it was said here — social and political in the city of Lugo around the construction or creation of the Galaean-Roman Museum, a consensus in which it is now the People's Party that throws itself out. Mrs. Burgo spoke in her speech and also in the presentation of reasons for institutional disloyalty. We would add that it is the ultimate banal and the ultimate occurrence of the People's Party, and very especially of the Councillor of Culture; a stopper now pulls out of the sleeve, then, as Mrs. Burgo herself said, from the effort and money of all the Galicians and Greeks who cost to recover that San Fernando barracks and who passed by to the Town Hall. Now the Galician Union decides to hand over its management or intends to hand over its management to Paradores, to the state. It is not just that in ten years they have not brought to this country any new competition, they give the few political competences that this country has. And, as they should seem little indeed, they take out of their sleeves into the village of Mrs. Urraca, into the area of the Tinería, a headquarters of the CGAC, which, indeed, without speaking to anyone at all, neither with the Town Hall, nor with the direction of the CGAC, and I believe that not even with the Municipal Group of the People's Party, Mrs. Burgo; I think you didn't even speak to the Municipal Group of the People's Party; you arrive at the Place in a total paratrophysicist way and you launch the first one that comes to their head. Honestly, I insist that the city of Lugo is very big and also this country. Because the only goal that the People's Party has with all this is to mess up. The only goal that PP has is to mess up, because they don't plan to do anything, they don't plan to do anything at all. In the budgets, simply as an example, of the Galician Council of Culture for the year 2020, there is not a single euro for San Fernando headquarters. But they also voted against at least the BNG amendment that aims to invest two million euros to initiate the rehabilitation of that San Fernando barracks. You don't budget in that barracks for a single euro. All they're looking for is to mess up and give you something to talk about and give you something to talk about and put on the basis of the municipal political debate in Lugo, because they don't paint anything. There is no project, no proposals, nothing at all. [[Applause]] And I don't appreciate it -- I also tell you -- little appreciation seems to you to have Mr. Carballo, who, in case there's anyone behind the scenes, is the municipal spokesperson for the People's Party in Lugo. So much so, I say to you, that we are not going to get involved here now in the inner quarrels of the People's Party in Lugo, in the city and in the province. Mr. Balsairo was talking about Mrs. Burgo. I think I was the only one who was aware of everything, of all this, because Balsairo, where he did not arrive, sends word. In Lugo — and this is over — we are not really about wasting our time, nor are we about the people's party. Stop fooling around...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u121	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u122	...they stop happening and meet the commitments of the Union, starting with this Museum of Romanization. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u123	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. For the Joint Left Group, you have the floor to Mrs. Cuña Bóveda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u124	Good morning to all and to all. We are going to support this non-law proposition of the Socialist Party of Galicia. And, as Mrs Burgo has well said, we have to do a little bit of memory. Of course remember, there was a spectacular vision of a Cultural Counsellor, Pérez Varela, who at the time said: "The whole world is coming to see us." This promises, doesn't it? This seems to be, if premonition were to be fulfilled, it wouldn't be wrong. And why did he say that? Because they were going to create Galician Archaeological Heritage Network. Twenty years is not what tango said, they're years, and a lot of things have happened. It's inevitable to talk about this network. What was this project already in 2001? So I was pursuing, with an investment of 18 million euros, two goals: to recover memory and boost the tourist offer. What was the excellent idea — that was not bad —? Create four large parks. In Ourense, a park dedicated to Castrexa culture, San Cibrao de Las; in Pontevedra, Rupestro art, Campo Lameiro, inaugurated, that is, in 2011; in Coruña, megalitism, supposedly in the Costa da Morte area; and in Lugo, the Museum of Romanization, in the historic building of San Fernando, object of political tirapuxa until today. Well, you didn't know very well what network it was about, or whether you knew how it would work, or what relationship it would have with other centers; more than network, it turned into maranda. And it must be said, by setting an example, that in the case of Campo Lameiro, which we proposed here, and the PP rejected the proposal, which could be the heritage of humanity, with a recurring phenomenon, Campo Lameiro, to which President Feijóo said it was the Portico da Gloria da Arte Rupestro, was torn apart because he passed machinery on top of petroglyphs. This is recurrent, it happens many times, but nothing happens, we have so much heritage that it seems to give the same. Well, what was the company? The company was Spiral Cultural Management. Whose company was this? From the mayor of Campo Lameiro and his son, mayor until a few months ago, thirty-six years old, mayor of the PP. This is the prize of tearing down petroglyphs and that has also gone to manage the San Cibrao de Las block park. Well, it has to be said that the evil politics of the People's Party in the matter of archaeology will pass the bill for many years, it's absolutely embarrassing. The old headquarters reform was scheduled for 2011, and it was even said that there were 10 million to do this reform. There was even an architectural project, in 2013 it was postponed, until better times came at the economic level -- it was said -- okay. We're here until today. Now, what's the matter? They don't want to do the promised museum. The counsellor of the Xacobeo — with capital letters — of the Holy Business — with capitals — and of the culture — with lower case letters — says: We prefer that there be a stopper in San Fernando. Well, this has neither feet nor heads. The paratroopers were born, yes, back in 1928, they bloomed with Fraga as fungi, but the truth is they have structural problems, debts, regulatory files, management, let's go!, there was an ERE in which 300 people fired, a fatal management. Well, the forecast is that the result of these farmers' holdings is reduced to 2020 by 44.7%. In this context described, the proposal for advice is not reasonable. Well, they spoke experts, they spoke citizenship, they spoke many politicians. The logical thing is that the Romanization Museum is done in San Fernando barracks. Of course, Juan Palomo is our advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u125	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u126	...I'll cook it, I'll eat it, and so we'll go. Of course, we're not surprised, but at last, it's a witness more than the most responsible...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u127	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cuña. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u128	...to protect our heritage is opposing that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u129	For the Galician People's Group, you have the floor to Mrs. Amigo Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u130	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. A few weeks ago, in December, as Mrs. Burgo said here, we know an ambitious project that presented the Councilman of Culture in Lugo, an integral project promoted by the Government of Greece, which includes the rehabilitation of entire goods such as San Fernando headquarters, Urraca's palace and the tower house, to equip them with new uses. In addition, the project foresees the economic dynamisation of the city, with a museum stopper that would generate jobs and an estimated impact in the first year of 1.6 million euros. In this project, the Union bets on the creation of a museum proposal that will enhance the legacy of Romanization through the integrated management of several centres that are currently underutilized. And the Council of Galicia bet on the creation of the new Museum of Romanization in Lugo, never gave up on this. But what you want here is a network museum to value the legacy of the rich architectural and archaeological heritage that we have in the city and that will also allow to recover an underutilized infrastructure. And I'm talking about the Interactive Museum of Lugo History, which we all know. Over 10 million euros were invested there for an average of fourteen visitors a day. And this could work integrated with the museumed area, if it finally consolidates this option, and could also be linked to other elements of Roman footprint, such as Santa Eulalia de Boveda, the Domus de Mitreo or even the castle of Viladonga. Mrs. Burgo and Mrs. Rodil, you are partners in government, in many, and in Lugo too, and, of course, I'm not going to talk here about messes, because of that you know a lot. This is a comprehensive project, presented by the Council of Culture and Tourism, and also endorsed by a technical study that believes it is a very advantageous option for the city, which will favour international tourism, which will rehabilitate the area of Tinería, creating for the first time outside of Santiago the Galego Centre of Contemporary Art in the palace of Dona Urraca, and the house-tower, which will host, in addition to the tourism office of the Union, the Association of Hostalaria Entrepreneurs. Of course you're something else. Stop messing around, don't confuse the lumens, and look, the truth is, what you want to do is open up a space closed and abandoned by the Town Hall, because we're talking about a building that is city hall title, where they don't even put crystals in the windows. Look, what concerns this mayor, who, by the way, was said to have been elected by the governments, no, this is a pact of losers in both legislatures, of course, a pact with the BNG, and what the elections won was always the People's Party. What's the matter is that you, well... Look, in ten years the needs change, you can't install one in the immobilism. Place today has three heritages of humanity, needs to bring cultural tourism. And look, yesterday even the 2019 tourism data were presented in the city. Place sprays all tourist data, it is the province of Galicia that grows the most, with a number of travelers growing by 13%, but, oh, chance!, Place city differs from province. While overnight in Lugo city it grows by 7%, in the province it grows by 12%, nine points above the province that the city; something happens in the city. The initiative for the impetus of cultural tourism led by the Union seeks to correct these irregularities, to ensure that all those who visit Lugo city stay overnight. I hope that in his second speech we will understand why Lugo cannot have - is not Mrs Burgo - a Museum of Romanization and also a tourist stopper. If we have a project and an administration that supports it, if we can have both, why give up one of them? Let's move forward and let the city grow. But, of course, in Lugo for years this is not possible, because look, all socialists do is put sticks on the wheels. And you know perfectly well because you were there, you were responsible for culture in the Museum of Lugo, you know perfectly well that after this Pharaohic investment, which was made in 2000, this great building, by the way, is empty of content and, of course, lacking management. Nothing new, Mrs. Burgo. Management in the city of Lugo, budgeted in the museum network of the excellent museums we have in the city, zero potato, Mrs Burgo. If it's the residence, they're all caught; if it's the auditorium, they're putting more glues; everything that goes to Junta in Lugo is wrong, according to the ruling of the Socialist Party, who's been kidnapping the county for more than 20 years. A change of attitude! True, the lights will thank you. Look, Mr. Balsairo, what you care about about your health, enjoys good health. Mr. Balsairo is a gentleman who works and is in Lugo and the province, wherever he may be. I'll end up inviting you to come to the round table...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u131	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u132	...promoted by Mr. Balsairo — I have already finished — about the project for the impetus of cultural tourism in the city of Lugo, paratrooper or museum, or more museum paratrooper.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u133	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u134	Next Saturday, February 8th, we'll wait for you there. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u135	Thank you very much, Mrs. Friend. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Burgo López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u136	Thank you, Mr. President. Invitation by invitation, Mrs. Friend: I invite you to go to the 9th demonstration and you will see that it is the same, that your presence would be very welcome. [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Amiga, Friend — sorry, but friend too, eh!—, Mrs. Amigo, the lumens are not confused, at all, the lumens have very clear—and I just told you now, with a hundred and twenty minimum associations, because they are increasing—that they want the Museum of Romanization in San Fernando barracks. Look, you don't think I'm the most suitable to be criticizing anyone for a museum, the MIHL, about which, by the way, your data isn't true. But, Mrs. Friend, what would you say to me about Gaiás? What do you have to say about the City of Culture when you speak that way so full of reason about the MIHL? Nothing? It's you, look where, the most suitable to talk about a museum. Mrs. Friend, whatever Lugo wants, what he wanted also the PP, the Town Hall PP, who voted on countless occasions, was the museum in San Fernando barracks. Now -- you're right, Mrs. Rodil -- in order, just in order, they just ordered you to say no, they didn't want it anymore. But you know that they voted — they also voted just as they did here — in favour of that museum. Don't tell me anything about networks, the networks can be done with any museum, the Museum of Romanization in the barracks can go online with Santa Eulalia, with whom it's necessary; the problem is that we can't have a museum that looks like you want, that's four windows in a hallway, and four windows in an infrastructure that's not suitable for this guy. If you want to give MIHL something, give it the seat of the Contemporary Art Center, where it has an important location. And, Mrs. Friend, you've been late for ten years, ten years to rehabilitate the palace of Mrs. Urraca and the tower house, which we've also asked for here on multiple occasions. Please, you can't hold back anything you say, they're lies, one lie after another. They comply with what they promised and what is needed, and they tell it the economic means, social, cultural associations, all political parties. They purchase and install the Romanization Museum, which must also be a museum of research, conservation, dissemination, not the four windows; they don't sell things that aren't. And he didn't answer one thing: why is the bumper so necessary now and it wasn't necessary when Mr. Rajoy was ruling? And a second question: do you have...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u137	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u138	...the promise or acceptance of Tourism Breakers to make a parade in Lugo? They're selling smoke...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u139	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u140	...they're messing around, as always and, above all, they're taking advantage of attacking a government. [[Applause]] They're trying to tell a legitimate government what it has to do with its infrastructure. And by the way, this Losers' Government, you go and tell the president...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u141	Thank you very much, Mrs Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u142	...of Andalusia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u143	Thank you very much. Agenda Change
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u144	We moved on to the next non-law proposal. As you know, 5.6 was removed from the proponent group, and we went to 5.7. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and five other Members, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Galicia to reactivate the pending transfers of the State, as well as to encourage the reform of the State structure to national feelings of belonging
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u145	This motion for a non-law has been tabled with an amendment by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u146	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mr. Bará Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u147	On January 3rd, it was a historic day for this country, it was a day when this country took a step forward, it was a day, of course, beneficial for Galicia, and this left the People's Party unraveled; and yet the goat did not pass them; it came clear today, again, with the intervention of Mr. President of the Union. They've been in a situation in KO for several days, and we think that's a good thermometer of the importance of this agreement. The reaction of the People's Party shows that it was a very good deal, and we have to tell you anyway that this is just a starting point. Of course, we do not agree with this agreement, the legislation has just begun to hope that there will be many more fruit and new negotiations in the future that will allow us to continue to defend the interests of Galicia, which for that is the BNG in Madrid, not to shut up, as have been done for all these years by the Members and the Members of the People's Party. This agreement was, first of all, an exercise of responsibility, because it served to unlock a situation of institutional paralysis, political paralysis and government in function, and — it must also be said — served as a containment dam for the right, who wanted to rule this country. It was a deal, in addition, made since the political difference, it wasn't a blank check. Of course, we have deep differences in the program and agreement signed by the Socialist Party and by the United Nations, but of course we're going to be a demanding opposition, and I think we're already proving it. This agreement has served to put Galicia on the political map of the state and to achieve two things: to start ending with the discrimination that our country has suffered in recent years and also to end with something that is even more important than discrimination, which is the political irrelevance to which the governments of the state have taken us precisely, but also the complicit silence of the People's Party, ruling in Galicia. And so he left — that is what upsets them — in evidence of Mr Fexóo's irrelevance and submission to Madrid. And it also became clear in this agreement that the BNG put forward the interests of our country and made an agreement in defense of the social majority; there are the points of the agreement. Mr. Fexóo seems to have not heard yet, he must not have read the press, but he did not see that the press, precisely, published surveys where a social majority very positively valued this agreement. So they read the papers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party a little more. But of course, it is very disturbing that only one member of the BNG has done more than all the Members of the People's Party and that one member of the BNG has achieved more than anything that Mr Fexóo has achieved in ten years of submission, ten years of submission to Madrid, Madrid, Madrid, Moncloa or Genoa, depends on who is in the Government. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] If the People's Party is in government, I submit to Moncloa, and if the Socialist Party is in government, I submit to Genoa. And you want to bring us here the agenda of the People's Party of Genoa. This agreement has opened the door to great advances in very important matters. As far as self-government is concerned, we want to ask you whether you want more self-government for this country, in terms of recognizing a new political status for Galicia — which we also ask them — whether they want or not. In the improvement of infrastructure, do you want the transfer of AP-9 or not?, do you want a substantial reduction in the fees of AP-9 or not?, much higher than you proposed, by the way. Do you want to improve the railway? Do you want to clean up the laughs? Do you want there to be policies to support and boost the industrial sector? Do you want to progressively reduce the replacement rates? Do you want returned emigrants to pay fair tribute? Do you want all this? Do you want the Act of gender-based violence to be promoted, to be modified, to be judged by violence in the cities? Do you want this or don't you want it? Finally, do you want to compensate the surplus communities in the electricity tariff? Do you want territorial compensation for the electrointensive industry? All this and many more things are in an agreement that has a great material value and also symbolic, also symbolic. And the president of the board says it's feelings, feelings of belonging, feelings that don't matter. Now, for the feelings of belonging there is Mr. Fêxóo as President of the Board, for the feelings of belonging, for the national feelings of belonging, there is self-government and for the national feelings of belonging there was a status and there were people like Castelao and Bóveda who paid very hard to defend those ideals and feelings of belonging. [[Applause]] Therefore, a little respect, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and Mr. Faixóo, to the feelings of belonging. And, of course, it won't give us lessons in democracy here a party -- and its president -- that has that past and is corrupted by corruption. BNG won't give any lesson in democracy to the People's Party. [[Protests.]] This agreement has many aspects I've already mentioned, and there are two I want to highlight today. The first has to do with overcoming this political framework, this status, with progress in reforming the structure of the State, precisely to collect, to recognize, these national feelings of belonging, which, ultimately, is to recognize the multinational character of the State that indirectly recognizes the Constitution itself when it speaks euphemistically of historical nationalities, and that Galicia has the same political status that they have or may have other historical communities, other nations such as Catalonia and Basquedi. I don't know if you want it to be so, or if you're a second or third-class country, because you seem to want to match up with communities that have less recognition and less competence. And the other question, the other point of agreement, has to do with progress in strengthening the decision-making capacity of the German self-government, opening up negotiations on the transfer, transfer of pending competences, to which you one day say yes and another say no. For the reality is that you are nervous about this agreement and about these aspects of the agreement, because they have highlighted especially the paralysis in the self-government of these nine or ten lethal years of Mr. Fexóo, which was not only paralysis but was, above all, recentralization. The reality is that you have not been able to negotiate a single transfer - that is, we are at the same level as Murcia - and you have not even been able to comply with the agreements adopted unanimously here, in which 70 competences were claimed. They were unable to fulfill their own electoral promises, which, by the way, were speaking of the transfer of the management of the public domain by sea-terrestrials, nor were they able to comply with the agreements of Galicia's own Board, and I remind them of that agreement of the Council of the Council of 8 October 2009, when Mr. Faixóo solemnly said that phrase that will pass into history: "We shall begin the greatest self-government phase of Galicia's history." And they presented there a report of Mr. Rueda with a request for 17 transfers of powers. The reality is that the BNG has now had to reach the State Parliament to open the can of the transfer negotiation. But it's also true that the People's Party already has to go out of the mask, the face - the entrance has not yet arrived - because you don't want any more transfers, you have to make it clear. We don't want AP-9 because it can break Spain. He said it publicly, just like Íñigo López de la Serna. You also made it clear in your election program that they just made public four days ago. They said, "We will approve a moratorium that will paralyze the transfer of competences to the autonomous communities." Clearer, water! "Strengthening the presence of the State in all autonomous communities." Married said: "Spain cannot transfer more competences to autonomous communities. This no longer lasts, the nation must be strengthened." He said: "Spain is not about to make transfers to autonomous communities." He said in Madrid. It is clear what is the roadmap of the People's Party, which is the sheet that marks it in Genoa, in Madrid, that centralist agenda, that Spanish agenda, that agenda more Spain and more Madrid, and that goes against more Galicia and means less Galicia. So let's give him a chance. They now have the opportunity to remove that mask, to get on the side, really, of Galicia, they are in time to rectify by voting in favour of these two proposals presented by BNG in favour of Galicia's interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u148	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. Mr Villares Naveira has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u149	Good morning, gentlemen. Since Marea we are going to support this proposal not by law with an amendment to which I shall now refer, because beyond the explicit propaganda of the BNG in its negotiations with other political forces and that we think that it should have another configuration here, we understand that, in relation to the underlying reasons - which are basically two, the question of transfers and the reform of the state - we agree. We agree on the question of transfers. Our country lives and is ending a decade of zero powers, zero transfers, zero self-government defense, propitiated by the People's Party. Nuñez Feijóo, the only one who was here, is the champion of the destruction of self-government on several pathways, and one of them was the route of incompetence of transfers, of competitive incompetence, was completely subdued to the dictates of the Rajoy Government. But even the speech of the mansedume is not at fault with the political analysis of transfers over the course of this decade, because between 2009 and 2019 - in most of this time also governed by the People's Party in the State - all autonomous communities, except three, benefited from active transfer processes, only Navarre, Murcia and Galicia did not do so. The rest of the autonomous communities, such as the Basque Country, 17, but others governed by the People's Party and under the mandate of Mariano Rajoy for no less than seven years saw as numerous competitive aspirations were met: Castile and Lion, 8; Castile-A Mancha, 1, Extremeura, 5; Andalusia, 6; Madrid Community, 2; etc. That is to say, all autonomous communities, regardless of their political sign, have in common had their self-government capabilities expanded, and it was not so in the case of Galicia by the explicit veto of the People's Party, with one exception - which was also not honorable, which was shameful - in relation to AP-9, because despite unanimous pronouncements in the IX and the X legislation of this House, he spoke with the veto of the People's Party in Madrid at the Congress of Deputies and with the explicit and repeated veto of the Bureau of Congress. Such was the veto that In Marea had to threaten and had to initiate proceedings for the application of an amparo remedy in view of the impossibility of processing by the constant veto of the President of Parliament, at that time the popular and Welsh Ana Pastor. So very little political will, no political will in relation to any transfer and, therefore, it is necessary to overcome that stage. We greet very positively - of course, and so we say - that if you open a stage that at least in the name, nominally, it seems like this, and as you must begin with the agreement and you must start with the letter, because we celebrate that letter. Now, we also do it by making a record of history and taking the hemero library into account. In 2009, after the unanimous approval of this House - by unanimity - by no means, I think it was for most - the request for competences in road transit was at the Congress of Deputies, it was the Government of Rodríguez Zapatero who prevented - even then with the abstention of the People's Party - that these transfers were made effective. So a call of attention, a reminder of the hemerotheque, and simply the reminder and the caution for us to be all vigilant, because of course this should be one of the first ones, because you've reached the agreement a decade ago in this House and therefore it should be the object of immediate negotiation. Finally, and with regard to the second part of the text, which refers to reform of the State, we agree, we agree with that, also with regard to the other autonomous communities, which are the fundamental expression of plurinationality in the Spanish State. And precisely in this regard, we felt that the expression of recognition of national feelings of belonging should be replaced by another that was more in agreement, to begin with the constitutional text itself, starting from the euphemism to which Mr Bará refers from the recognition of historical nationalities. Well, from there on, the idea of multi-nationality is perfectly flawed, even defended by many constitutionalists as a true multi-national vertebration of the State, and therefore some reform of the State has to move forward in that direction. That's the name that in political theory is given to the recognition that many and many sovereignists have of what the political relationship between the nations that make up the Spanish State should be. So it's clearer, it's more certain and it's consistent with the political position that many forces have historically maintained, both in this House and in other autonomous chambers of the state, aiming for a democratic key reform where all of us can have the right to decide on it, and also the form of political organization within the Spanish state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. Villares. Mr Sánchez García has the floor for the Parliamentary Group on the Left.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u151	I want to start by saying that we are going to support this initiative. We understand that in parliamentary activity there must be moments for the big debates, times for the agreements too, although I suppose they do not fully satisfy what a party proposes, and I think we are in that case. I think it's a proposal for agreement that doesn't fill all the aspirations of the Galician Nationalist Block. Nor for us is it a proposal that fills all our aspirations, but we assume that we must try to reach some agreement. I am also pessimistic, not even with this proposal, I think there will be no kind of approach to the People's Party, which has been installed for many years in the negation of nations and the denial of the rights of nations to decide. I think there are two levels of debate here: the crisis of the 1978 regime at the level of the state and the rights of the nations and a debate that will be given, whether they want or not, because it is a debate that is truncated by the most cavernical right of the Spanish State that leads these nations to a failed calexon, because even the exits they have tried within the constitutional channels have been betrayed by that right, which bases their logic on the negation of nations; the denial of nations and the assumption that there is only one nation in the Spanish state which is the indissoluble Spain. It has much to do with the fact that there has not been a democratic break-up with the previous regime. The Spanish State is the only case in Europe which, at the end of a fascist totalitarian regime, did not open itself to an ex-new democratic process, but a political reform agreed with the elites of the previous regime. There were pressures to change what was a unanimous request of the left parties to defend the democratic right to decide of these nations, the right of self-determination, and that pact above was not passed water, it is not passed water, it is the original sin, but it was then constantly aggravated by a recentralization both in the actions of administrations and in the speech. The right of nations to decide has become increasingly strangled. That's a level. And at that level we believe there is only one democratic exit: recognition of nations and the right to self-determination. The rest will be either the imposition of an authoritarian and antidemocratic exit, or, if not, the eternal conflict of something they know will not disappear, which is that feeling of national belonging, those needs of the people to be able to have sovereignty to solve people's problems, which we also have in Galicia. That won't be solved because we look elsewhere, as Mr. Suárez Islanda does. Then there's the level here, of self-government, of the action of self-government. As the government of Feijóo has shown, this government has been under a lot of self-government. It's not that it was enough, it's not that it's left. In the opposition they boycotted irresponsibly the elaboration of the reform of the Greek Statute, and in the Government, as already said here, they did not request, they did not fight for any transfer, and instead they are submerged into a policy of opposing the Government, forgetting that I am a government of a country called Galicia. They didn't ask for the transfer of railway policies, but they bring here cheating initiatives to claim what they didn't claim when they were in the State Government, and they're campaigning with concessions in the maritime-terrestrial public domain of the coast, when it was a reform of the People's Party, both of the law and of the regulation, what they got into trouble, and when they had in their hand to act as government and ask for the powers for concessions on the Greek coast, as they have Catalonia and Andalusia. It would be perfectly possible if we had a government that needed that self-government to improve the living conditions of people. We do believe that Galicia needs sovereignty to move forward. Autonomy has not been used to solve the endemic problems of Galicia, but it's less useful now, when there's a real exhaustion of the model. And for that, there is an authoritarian exit and a democratic exit. The authority already knows where it leads us, to permanent conflict, and democracy is the recognition of nations and their right to decide, the right of people to express themselves and to initiate these constituent processes, but that dialogue must not only be between parties and institutions, but rather open to society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. Mr Álvarez Martínez has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I honestly believe that the formation of a government is, or should be, in itself, good news; it means that Spain is set in motion after months of blockade and that it does so with a government led by the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, who was the winner of the elections held in 2019, even if it costs them to admit it. This is the first executive, it is true, of state-level coalition at this democratic stage, and frankly I believe that this should not be a problem for the People's Party, which no longer governs, except for Galicia at the moment, if it is not in coalition, and this, despite the fact that from the very first moment it considered this government to be illegitimate. There is a key direction in government action, which is territorial understanding, just as there are other key directions, such as social justice, the transformation of our productive model and the ecological transition. In short, I believe that this government represents hope for Spain, the hope of putting the country into action after months of blockade, and the hope of beginning to address the country's major challenges from the progressive and dialogueal perspective. The hope of advancing in rights and freedoms, leaving behind the stage of cuts experienced during the crisis, and providing greater well-being to citizenship, especially to middle and working classes. The hope, as it does not, of regaining coexistence and social dialogue, and this is what the Galego Nationalist Block presents today. The hope of demonstrating to the citizen that politics is capable of designing solutions to everyday problems and drawing them into concrete measures that improve people's lives to conceive a better future and move on to it. This executive has in his favor a social majority - they like or don't like some - who has placed their trust in the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and in the rest of the progressive forces that support it, with those who have reached agreements. In front, unfortunately, a right boarded in a destructive and gristling opposition that did not grant a single day of grace to this new government. Socialists do not want to live from the territorial crisis, we want to solve it. We don't want a unified Spain but a different, united and cohesion; cohesion as a horizon, responsibility as a principle, and as a work tool, unique and exclusively dialogue. And after years of political inaction by the former governments of the People's Party and months of institutional blockade forced by the lack of agreements to form a stable government, Spain needs, rather than a legislating that would run with an executive ready to face pending reforms in the area of social welfare, democratic regeneration and territorial cohesion. After 2019, the plague of electoral processes, all of them with a clear winner, our state cannot afford any more paralysis. There are challenges that cannot wait and there is a state that demands solutions, and if politics is not up to this crucial moment it will lose its value in the eyes of citizenship. It is essential, firstly, that the new Government take measures that improve the lives of Spanish people, especially the middle and working classes, who were the ones who suffered the most during the years of crisis and those who received less economic recovery. Health, education, pensions, dependence, equality and the environment, among other things, need a progressive key drive to open a horizon of hope for the majority of society. And as for the territorial crisis and the territorial tension, it's more necessary than ever to open up the dialogue. Within the framework of the social and democratic rule of law, which is Spain, and from the legitimate point of view of the difference, political actors must be able, without exception, to open a stage chaired by the negotiation and the agreement to overcome this climate of confrontation and unilaterality that does nothing but harm us all. The legislation that now begins — or has already begun — must be chaired by that dialogue, and in it they must begin to lay the foundations for lasting solutions. And on that line, frankly, I believe it is positive that the announcement of the Government chaired by Pedro Sánchez of this annual Conference of Presidents of the Autonomous Communities in the Senate and the holding of bilateral meetings with all - all - the autonomous leaders, as well as the renewal of the system of self-financing. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, our parliamentary group will support this non-law proposal that presents the Nationalist Block Galego, not only because a fundamental part of it is part of that agreement, but because we honestly believe that it is what Spain needs. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez. Mr Puy Fraga has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u155	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, you have to say: "Mr Rego, representative of the BNG, thank you. I thank you from the heart for taking a step forward. That the representative of the regionalist party of Cantabria changed its affirmative vote by a negative vote has made important the contribution of the Nationalist Block Galicia to this investment. And I do not want to forget that, indeed, your affirmative vote is also very important. It is true that during the last few hours the Government and its spokesperson have been working with their representatives in an agreement which I believe is good" — you quote. It's a quote that contextualizes the non-law proposition that brings us today's Block. They want us to legitimize in this House an agreement made in haste and in which the Block is the second plate, after the regionalist party in Cantabria, claiming that this agreement represents the whole of Galicia. Precisely because this agreement was put in a hurry, it shows the objective weaknesses of both the Socialist Group in Congress and the Galician Nationalist Block; the obvious parliamentary weakness of the current Government, which elected whom it chose — of course, the BNG the last — to negotiate the configuration of a government, and the weakness of the Block, first of all, so it does not include this government. Because you in this House saw that we were told times and shared with us that we had to claim the 370 million that Galicia owes firmly. In the pact they didn't demand it, and now, on top of it, they ask us to go through the judicial route, precisely those who talk about judicializing politics, and they put it in front of the PP to judge politics. The BNG proposed in this House and we voted unanimously that a plan of action should be made to eliminate all the stages of concentration of accidents in the national network in Galicia and, however, the agreement is not. They said they agreed with a ship to bring cargo to Navantia Ferrol while the F110s were not processed, but in their agreement with Navantia there were only declarations of intent and no workload. They've applied for the Social Court of Lugo and it's not in the deal. At the AP-9 they agreed with us to support all the works, the urbanization of the entrance section in Vigo and Alfonso Molina in the Coruña; however, the only thing they put is where you rule, in Pontevedra, the firemen's knot. They supported our demands for measures to ensure the operation of the thermal power plant of García Rodríguez Bridges and time to achieve a viable alternative. That's what you voted for, however, in the document they signed with the PSOE, I blessed the closure and they only talk about dealing with the funds once they closed the factory, not to mention what came about this morning in relation to the health system. And the weakness of the block is seen not only by what they leave out but also by what they include and how they include it. The coupon, of course, falls; fortunately, the most positive of the agreement you have signed with the Socialist Party. With respect to AP-9, the law that you brought us demanded the full rescue of the highway, prior to its transfer; now they have placed a discount on the fees that no one understands and in which you do not know how many times you have to go and come on the highway to choose to lower the fees. And that of the electric tariff, which was the greatest injustice that was committed with Galicia, which was not differentiated, becomes a study that the Government of Spain will do to see if it's possible to make differentiated electric tariffs. Well, you want us to confirm this agreement, which has two parts in its non-law proposal. One is on the Joint Transfer Commission — on which we agree, and then on the next LNP we will offer to incorporate the call into our text of the Galician Agenda. Let's go in total peace. As we have always said, self-government is basically achieved, according to the Constitution and the Statute. There are some skills that can be transferred, such as that of AP-9. We agree that it is agile. Obviously, what we're not going to do is to bring poorly funded transfers or to harm the whole of Galician citizenship, such as, for example, the transfer of the MIR to some autonomous communities, of what is now being discussed. The second part refers to adapting the structure of the State to national feelings. We're really not going to support that, and I'm going to tell you why. First, because it's a literal, exact copy of point 4 of the agreement that the Socialists had previously signed with the Basque Nationalist Party. You, who constantly accuse us of following, sign exactly and literally what the Basque Nationalist Party signed, including Galicia, that the Basque Nationalist Party had excluded because it had included only the Basque Country and Catalonia. If it's bad for Galicia that Catalonia or the Basque Country are taking a path to independence, it's even worse that Galicia is also on the path of independence; that's why we're not going to support it. [[Murmurs.]] But we're not going to support it mostly for a major reason. It is typical and characteristic, intrinsic to nationalists, to confuse what is a nationalist party with the representation of a society as a whole. Nationalists are legitimate ideas and they can defend themselves democratically, nobody discusses it, in the case of the Galician Nationalist Block, but they do not represent the whole of the people. [[Murmurs.]] The reality is that Galicia has 42 democratic representatives in the State Courts and the Block has only one that, by the way, has achieved nothing, nothing but one thing, to point out the Government that approved the worst budget for Galicia in many years. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to vote on this because we are also convinced that Galicia is not a nationalist. The feelings of belonging of the Greeks perfectly reflect in the Statute of autonomy of Galicia and in the Constitution. Most Galicians are not nationalistic. We, who represent half the Galician electorate, would never speak for the whole people and much less we will accept that you will do it with just 9% of the vote. Maybe it happened when they signed the Republican Manifesto. I have no drawback for parties like the Republican Block, and I even understand that the Block boycotts an institutional act involving the head of state. But what they can't do is arrogantly represent all over Galicia and say that Galician society thinks what BNG thinks, because that's literally not true. The truth is that Galicia believes in the Constitution, the Statute and democracy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u156	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u157	Ladies and gentlemen, there's an old English saying that politics makes strange bedmates. The Socialist Party's support for this initiative suggests that, indeed, it is rare that a party that is independentist, sovereignist and anti-monarchic with one who is said to be federalist, constitutionalist and therefore defends the parliamentary monarchy; it is a marriage... better said, they are strange bedfellows. What's not strange is that this relationship is produced, because every time the Bloc lords have the opportunity, they're running to support and support the Socialist Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u158	Thank you, Mr. Puy. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u159	Mr. Puy, if it is not clear to you, we have no king; it does not represent an deceased institution, [machist], ancient and heir to frankism. [[Murmurs.]] How do we tell him? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u160	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u161	We're a sovereign organization, which we have our own ideas, and we don't shut up, no, like you, who come down their heads to Madrid when they're called the churubio from Genoa to go to a demonstration in Columbus Square. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] We were somewhere else that day. [[Murmurs.]] We were in the streets and squares of Santiago defending public health. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We were somewhere else. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Mr. Puy reads Mr. Sánchez's appointments very well, but he misinterprets them because he lacks much information, and I can give him information. BNG didn't stop at the end. The BNG has endured to the end, he has aggravated to the end! and has demonstrated two things that bother you very much: he has shown negotiating skill and usefulness, because we could close that deal before, but we've held to the end, until we had the key. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] You know? [[Murmurs.]] You quoted the PNV. [[Murmurs.]] Well, the PNV does it very well, it does it very well! We must also learn from those who know how to do the negotiations well! [[Murmurs.]] PNV's been doing it a long time. [[Murmurs.]] Well, by the way, also with the People's Party, which he's been holding on to so many times. Look how well the PNV does that you got the same transfer of skills with the government in functions. [[Murmurs.]] Then you must be in the oysters, lords and ladies of the People's Party. [[Murmurs.]] Look, it's just that you see the discomfort and discomfort they're suffering from with this deal, that they recognize that it's very good and that they just want it not to be fulfilled. [[Murmurs.]] They're hoping it won't be done, but they recognize it's very good. [[Murmurs.]] It's like someone gives you a house and you say, where's the car? Ah! [[Murmurs.]] But we've got the house! It's a starting point, we've already said so. [[Murmurs.]] Look, it's just that you notice them so...! [[Murmurs.]] [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Prado, you can see that this matter is so bad that it brings me great satisfaction. [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] It brings me enormous satisfaction for his displeasure, his suffering and his contradiction. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Puy, you're just like a headless chicken. A few months ago you voted for an agreement in this Parliament which says substantially the same thing as we propose here, and now you are going to vote otherwise. [[Laughter]] And, by the way, also for the other interventions. Of course, one thing has to be understood. We're not bringing here the BNG program. If we brought the BNG program, we'd be talking about the right to decide, for example, that the people of Greece should have, the right to self-determination, which is an internationally recognized right -- it's because some people don't know here. We're not talking about that, we're talking about starting to take steps forward so that this country once and for all is respected and not respected; so that the transfer debate can be opened once again. [[Applause]] It's just that we're putting it in the tray, in addition. If we are summoning them to the Joint Transfer Commission, which you have not been able to ask — not even to ask, it is a shame — in ten years of government! [[Applause]] That disqualifies forever a submissive, servile president, who is a [telegnosed]... [[Applause]] [[(Expression taken from the Journal of Sessions by the President in the light of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure.)]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u162	Quiet. Let's take that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u163	...and that it is teledirected by Genova. [[Murmurs.]] Well, here I heard things like this or worse, by the way, referring to the other groups by Mr. Fexóo. [[Murmurs.]] So they don't change so much. They don't change so much and they have a little bit more headphones and headphones. [[Murmurs.]] So... yes, of listeners. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u164	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u165	It's a step forward, it's a positive step. We're focusing on the ball and you're just finishing it up, but get to work, which is the government of this country, I'm not a deputy! Get to work! They're calling for a summons... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u166	On the amendment of the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u167	...of the Bilateral Commission and open these negotiations so that we have AP-9, so that we have competence on our backs, so that we have competence in traffic, so that we have competence...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u168	On the amendment of the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u169	...also in labour inspection and in so many things that are pending for the futility and inability of the People's Party. With regard to the amendment, logically, we have no problem accepting it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u170	Thank you. Actually, I don't know what to say. Because I don't like them taking advantage of a moment of weakness that I could have. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't like the debate like that. I apologize, but this is not a way to debate. Can't be in full... No, no, but I'm asking you to remove some expressions... that are insulting: telenek... or expressions like even the head of the state with macho connotations... please, I'm asking that you withdraw! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] You may not accept that... sorry, I know what you're going to say to me, but that subject I've already dealt with, this subject is already dealt with. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I ask you, please, to remove those expressions, Mr Bará. [[Murmurs.]] Well, I, then, know what I have to do. Thank you. I have to call him in order. [[Murmurs.]] What I'm asking you is that, please, you understand that sometimes this is complicated... yes, yes, this is very complicated. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's not that easy... sorry, it's not that easy, I'm asking everyone for a collaboration, this group and all the groups because if they don't... nothing else. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Thank you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Perfect. No, in no uncertain tone, it doesn't go that way. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, this is over. [[Murmurs.]] Next proposal is not law. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Pedro Puy Fraga and fifteen other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the priority requests set out in the Galicia Agenda, adopted by the Council on 31 October 2020
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u171	Amendments have been tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, the Socialists, the Left Joint Group and the Galician Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u172	To formulate the non-law proposition Mr. Puy Fraga has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The spokesperson for the Left Joint Group said that we were facing an important debate. I think it's an important debate and I think that, precisely for that reason, it's also convenient to take it without some languages like the ones we've just heard, which have also left me in evidence after recognizing that nationalism can be democratically made. Well, of course, some disqualifications in these ways leave me bad, so I'd also ask for that. Let's see, the big debates what they do is put everyone in their place. I'm actually very sorry about some people in the Socialist Group, who are sure they're thinking they're dealing with and ruling with who says the Transition is an original sin, which does not include the right to decide about nations and that there is no democracy because the right of self-determination is not recognized, etc. In fact, when we're in an important debate, the first thing to think about is that we're doing here. I, who has been for some time and who know that the heat of the parliamentary debate sometimes takes us where we would not want to, or sometimes we go there precisely to not have to face up to other issues, I think it is always good to remember what the Statute says, that after saying in Article 1 that Galicia is set up as an autonomous community to access self-government, it says that this autonomous community, through democratic institutions, assumes as its main task the defence of Galicia's identity and its interests. And we therefore have a debate today that affects just this obligation: firstly, to defend democracy; that is, the institutional mechanisms we have, and then to respect, of course, the results of elections, but also democracy understood as a limit to power and, therefore, one on the competences of each of the powers of a democratic state that work to guarantee the freedoms, solidarity and shared progress of society as a whole. And also, of course, in defense of pluralism. And just when we talk about the crisis of democracy -- against what has been said here -- we think that's where the crisis of democracy is. The defence of the value of the people's vote cannot become populism -- there's a first threat, and this is not mine. The second is that we must defend freedoms, but we must not be neoliberal or anarcho-capitalist. And the third is that we have to defend pluralism and not messianism and think that one defends the whole of the people if the people, precisely, do not vote for it unanimously, which is not the property of a democracy. Well, in addition to defending democracy, we are defending a complex system, which is the federal system that reflects the Spanish Constitution and which represents the state of autonomy. The federal systems—and the autonomous system is—are characterized because there are two governments that serve with public services the same population and the two governments have the same democratic legitimacy. And that's precisely why they belong to federal systems, too, to intergovernmental disputes. William Riker was a famous American polytologist, and in the development of American federalism he claims that intergovernmental disputes are inherently necessary for federalism. If there are no disputes or is that the federal system has been completely centralized or collapsed. So, when we talk about intergovernmental issues, the truth is, that's because we live in a democratic, constitutional, plural system, and federal court. And, precisely, this debate affects this, to see how we defend parliamentary democracy in a context of a federal court system such as the state of autonomy, precisely at a time when it is questioned in many places with authoritarian movements or independentist movements that are rooted in the main idea, both in the European Union with Brexit and in Spain, with the emergence of independent parties who just attack this democratic, cooperative idea and relations between democratically elected governments. Well, democratically and loyally Galicia, through its Government and through this Parliament, has set out an agenda for relations with the Government that governs in Spain, with the legitimate Government of the Central State Administration; an agenda which, as I said in the last plenary, is relevant at the moment, consistent with its contents and consistent with our political action. For now, after a long period of selective interinternity, because one could pass royal decrees for one thing but for others not, for example, to finance autonomous communities, it turns out that there is a new majority — and I am again referring to the article that published last week the exporter of the Socialist Group — that has too many mortgages with political forces and territories that alienate Galicia from being among their preferences, as much as the only member of the Block says he has managed to turn that situation. The real fact is that at present the Greeks are facing a government that prioritizes other territories over Galicia. He said it was a coherent schedule because it has some content that is priority; it's so priority that 13 out of 25 that it has included the Block are also included in the German Agenda, but above all it's a content that has already passed through this House. It's not that it reflects the People's Party program, it reflects the opinion of this House. You've noticed that the Welsh Agenda has been debated on 101 points a point in this House. And I'm going to give you more information, 43 of those points on the Welsh Agenda were unanimously approved by all groups. And more information: none of the aspects that are included in the Welsh agenda had on one occasion only the vote in favour of the People's Parliamentary Group. So we're talking about an agenda discussed in this House that clearly reflects what the feeling and the majority needs of the people of Galicia are. That's why we can sum up in four blocks. The financier, with 370 million VAT. After hearing that it was a theater, etc., at last, not only the socialist community, but even some Greek socialists in the Coruña, Lugo, Ferrol and Santiago, recognize that this must be paid, and that it is also beginning to act judicially even by democratic obligation, as some socialist leader said this morning. Of course, we're going to continue to claim that money, especially today, when we meet with a Socialist Party that amends us and asks for time because they've been in government for three weeks. In the Government three weeks have been Podemos, you've been in the past year and a half; it's more, they've been trying to solve this problem that Minister Montero was demanding when she was an adviser to the Autonomous Community of Andalusia, and he promised all the autonomous communities that he was going to fix anything less than in the summer of 2018. Well, now it looks like they're asking for time. I did it to a reformed autonomic funding system that you paralyze because it was very advanced in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council. This council has not met for nearly twenty months, although it is called for this Friday, but for this Friday it is convened and, curiously, it does not include in the agenda nor the payment of VAT or compensation to autonomous communities. I think they ask time for the socialists to agree among themselves, because we have the Minister of Public Administration saying that it cannot be paid, the government delegate proposes to pay the 200 million through the reform of the financing system, Mr. Knight proposes to pay them through the budgets, Abel Caballero says he doesn't care about anything and the PSOE of the Crown and Place propose to pay it already. They must want time to agree with each other. There are ways to pay for it. Here we approved a non-law proposal also very majority that established immediate payment systems. It doesn't take time to avoid creating a problem for autonomous communities. Of course, we can also call for dialogue, but they did not include in the Government Pact the payment of debt to the autonomous communities, which is a matter of appeal; so appealing, as we have already said, that Mr Rego, who signs the government agreement with the Socialist Party, says it is unjustifiable that the Spanish Government intends to remain with the money of the autonomous communities and what we sign the agreement with the PSOE, what we are asking is that we judge politics, which is exactly what we are told that we are doing every day. The financial issues are important and we, by the way, are in favour of self-financing and we are in favour of the pacts that we have made with the Socialist Group in this legislation - I say that one day we forget that there are agreements on what reform should be, from the German point of view, about autonomous financing with the Socialist Party - but apart from the financial issues, which are important, there is a block of infrastructure that refers to the AVE, the Atlantic freight corridor, the AP-9, but also to the AP-53, also to the Lugo-Santiago highway, Vigo-O Porriño and that of the Navy, which, of course, includes works of water, ports and remove the debt of the Coruña, as was done with Valencia. The third block is the productive sectors, to help the 5,000 families of Alcoa and the electrointensive - this week they already know that the Ferroatlantic Business Committee has warned of the urgency also to Ferroatlantics of the approval of an electrointensive status - the 750 families of the Bridges, the thousands of workers who work every day in the 100 companies of the complex sea-industry on our coast or all families - around 80,000 - who sell wood to Ence and, of course, all the workers of the naval assistants in Ferrolterra. And finally, the fourth block, it's public services -- in education with subjects like a single selectivity, 50% of the dependency, free childhood schools, as you're already doing in Galicia with the second son; judges who are consistent with the judiciary; or, of course, tourism support, which last year has the best results of their history and which, of course, with Jacob will receive a new boost. The Agenda has specific problems to help the Greek families, but this agenda is also a sample that you can, from the system, work with respect to what is the prevailing legality in defence of Galicia's interests. You with a few issues, such as what they agreed with the Galician Nationalist Block and other political forces, have come to agreements that have harmed Galicia, prioritising other autonomous communities over Galicia. Now we're in a political situation where damage is not only Galicia and its families, but it can be an irreversible damage to the system. And, precisely to solve the problems of families and to point out the system from the conviction of the good that is for Galicia the Statute of Self-Government and the Constitution, that is why we present this Agenda of Galicia, which we count on having the support of all the groups of the House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u174	Thank you, Mr. Puy. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u175	Good morning again, gentlemen. Of course, if we had no memory, we would say that the PP had never ruled and, in particular, that it had never ruled in Spain. As we remember, of course, there are many things in this agenda that seem very reasonable to us but in which we find ourselves incomprehensible that we have come to this situation at the moment we are, when they were able to be resolved long before and in addition were the subject of debate in this very House with a highly changing position on the part of the People's Party. For this reason, many initiatives which are very diverse here and which are gathered at these 25 points have to be completed for different reasons. First of all, for a reason of political memory and hemerotheque. And secondly, also because in some cases we have disagreements about our own initiatives, legitimate discrepancies of a political or ideological nature. So, given that there are 25 very different measures, we are willing - and to this we also saw here, the gallery - to debate and, if possible, to negotiate and, if possible, to amend. If we can talk in that direction, we can agree at least on some of the measures. If we can't reach agreements and pretend to impose it on us as a "strike," because the truth is, with us, it doesn't contain it. I am going to refer to those amendments that we have made so that we can understand how we want to amend them. The first of these refers to the payment of the VAT debt. We agree, we have made it very clear in this House. So clearly we said that in November we presented a proposal for legislative reform so that the Government could, among other things, make the settlement of deliveries to the account as a possible answer to that problem that was being formulated. Well, now, as we agree with this point, we want to add what can be or what is the way of reform, among other things, to avoid the judicialization of the policy that you were referring to now. We think of a legal reform of the VAT collection system that has an additional provision that sets even the retroactive character of the provision, so that that money that is there, that we must have it in the Welsh public archives in order to be able to dedicate it to the purpose of general interest, may be in the shortest possible time, explaining also what is the origin of that situation, which is a reform operated by Montoro in 2017. Secondly, in relation to the system of self-financing, we base it on three basic principles: the principle of fiscal sovereignty, resource adequacy and cooperation. Some of us disagree because they are model debates and different models, but others do, for example, cooperate. And cooperation goes on the key to what you yourself announced or said in relation to the functioning of the federal system. So I think even if we wanted to discuss the epithetes, the new model of self-financing. In point 5, in relation to the railway system, we think you forget about the entire conventional network, which is the basic network that communicates the passenger transport system, and which, therefore, should have a specific mention; something that, by the way, has been tried throughout the legislation in this House and voted against by the People's Party while they were ruling in Madrid, and that must also be said. In point 7 they know that we disagree with the theme of A-57, which is collected in the State Road Law in its Annex II as a highway that goes from The Coruña to The Porriño, but we think that this layout in its most part already occupies AP-9; with which, it is much more productive to make AP-9 public than to build in parallel, less than 10 kilometers away, a highway. In point 10, according to the necessary reform of the electrical sector for electrointensives, we believe that this reform must also benefit families in order to avoid abusive bills in the receipt of light, and it has the same relationship with the electrical lobby as it keeps in relation to large companies. In point 11 we disagree on how to assume the conflict with the closure of the Bridges. We think it's right to close it and that what is required by the Spanish Government is an immediate adaptation of labour opportunities and a training of paid programs so that nobody loses their jobs and is recycled for the development of a new industrial strategy related to the hub of marine wind energy, so that no one is left on the street. This had to be prepared long before, but the People's Party's Government has forgotten to do so for these ten years. Well, about the past we can't do anything anymore, but for the future we think that what we should do is to prevent anyone from being unemployed, and the best way to do it, looking for the future as well, that's what we propose. We are not in favour of the development of the Law of Back, it must be done, and hence legal certainty comes from the development of the law, so, in particular, in that, we are not in favour of it. I'll be done by now. Regarding the taxation of diesel technology, we believe that what must be done with regard to the automotive sector is to adapt to the times, not to resist them. And adapting means promoting the sector's reorientation towards the electric vehicle and electric collective transport. Then, in relation to the F-110 frigates and the workload, everyone knows, because it had public relevance and are papers that were recognized and not questioned by anyone, which was the cause of the delay of these two years, which were particular interests of the former minister Morenés. I'm done, that I have two things left. In paragraph 19 we believe that the theme of education should not be raised from 0 to 3, but the right to education from 0 to 3 should be recognized as a subjective right. And finally, in point 22 we think that we should move forward towards the achievement of an integral Welsh police force that therefore assumes all the competences in the matter of public security in our country, as, among other things, collects, as you know, and allows the Statute of autonomy of Galicia. With these frames we can talk and, if you're willing to accept them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u176	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u177	...we vote for points you see and so...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u178	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u179	...we'll move on that super-simple yellow agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u180	Thank you, Mr. Villares. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u181	As I see in the popular ranks they come up with some descriptions that we make of their political behavior, I'm going to tell you one thing. The most serious thing that was said this morning in this Parliament was to say that BNG is not a democratic party; that was the most serious. Compared to that, the rest is minute sins. [[Murmurs.]] By the way, you use those descriptions, those characterizations with the others, but they have very fine skin, because we listen to these days of qualifications, accusations and disqualifications, especially very serious. Look, if we had to compare the People's Party to an animal -- that's a rhetorical figure, understand me well -- we'd compare it to a dog; but it wouldn't be a straw dog -- a Greek dog, which is recognized as a Greek race, and which is a beautiful dog -- it would -- I don't know -- be a canine or a sausage dog or even it could be one of those dogs that take themselves in the cars in the back tray and they're doing it, right? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You've seen it, haven't you? [[Mr. Bará Torres sits around making head movements.]] Yes, yes, you've been doing it for ten years, you've been doing it like this: yes, babana, yes, babana, yes, babana, and now they want to go through... but don't take our hair! [[Murmurs.]] If you've been like the hounds in the back of the car, heading to Madrid! They've been like this all the time. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So you don't want to wear something that I'm not. And, of course, the dog found a bone, found a bone already eaten, lambed, which remained there for a few ferns, and became rye, what rye, what rye, what rye, what ruse with the bone to see if something is gone. In the end, it's a toy. In the end, it's a toy in which they're round, round, round, but no longer has anything to eat, it's just the bone, and you're still there like the dog, red, red and red. That's the politics of the People's Party. Why does he do that? Because he has to hide his futility, his inability, and because he does not really have measures of progress, progress and transformation in this country and he has to make this smoke curtain cover his shame. [[Applause]] This is the fundamental motivation of this Galician Agenda, which, in fact, is not the Galician Agenda, is the Genoa Agenda. Because you were given the order, the churubío, they were touched by the churubío; they told them that they had to change the tap, as they did when they played the churubío to come from the United States to go to a demonstration they didn't want to go to. He said first that he didn't want to go, but he was touched by the churubian, so I said what I said before, because he's been teledirected since Genoa. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And now the same thing, now they gave him the touch of attention, the call, the churubio that all the institutional power of the People's Party should be used to make opposition. Because the curious thing is that you're already installed in the opposition, you already have opposition mentality. This isn't bad, because that's how they're getting ready for the task they're going to have soon in Galicia, which they're going to change... half of you won't be here anymore, by the way. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Well, then, they want us to put the signature under something that's totally inconsistent with what you've been doing all these years. And then we can agree on some of the proposals that come here, but others are absolutely flammable, and we will certainly not support them. And it seems to us that Mr. Puy is here to say that the problem is that the Government of the State prioritizes other territories. Well, to start with, that's what you've been doing all these years when you were dealing -- do we know how they agreed?, we talked about that before -- But do you know who the state governments have prioritized in recent years, in the last decade, all this time? Madrid. Madrid is the real beneficiary of the Spanish state's investment policies and fiscal policies; it's a real subtitling, it's a centrifuge of the resources it catches. Do you know, Mr. Puy - that you know something about this - how much Madrid says about corporate tax? 44% of the state. Do you know how much Madrid collects about IVE? 50% of the state. That's centralism, that's the agenda on the right, that's the agenda of the People's Party, the agenda of Spain, the Madrid agenda, and the BNG is here to defend the Welsh Agenda, the Galicia agenda, not its central agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u182	Thank you, Mr Bará. For the Joint Left Group, Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Puy, paper menu came here today! In the face of Mr Feijóo's government hats, they always send him to you to defend the indefensible, on a kind of impossible mission, because he's the only member of your group who still has some credibility when he speaks. Today you come to amend the disastrous appearance of Vice-President Rueda — who I could not see live, but who did see later, as my responsibility is -- a surreal appearance because Mr Rueda was unable to defend the Government's proposal because he didn't believe it or him. Mr. Puy, you know perfectly well that you don't have moral authority to speak of the 200 million VAT because the first thing that has put us in an unprecedented faucet to the Greeks and to the Greeks with their brawl was Mr. Feijóo. The president of Junta, using his pre-eminent feature in managing the crisis, preferred to ask his friends from the private bank to use state funding mechanisms, such as other communities, to draw on -- although there was a lesser interest in these credits -- and to say that Galicia did not intervene. But what he doesn't explain is that this joke has cost the Greek 516 million euros between 2012 and 2016. When do you think Mr. Feijo's gonna clean up the money from this faucet to the Welsh? Because I demand as a contributor that I do, and, like me, most of us in this country. And more this week, we learned that the president of corruption Mr. Rajoy used 500,000 euros from the funds reserved to investigate the Bárcenas through the interior cloacas, after the memorable "Luis, be strong." Don't you think we deserve at least an apology and give us back the money, constitutionalists of the People's Party? But look, too, I want to thank you -- and my group too -- for this initiative, because they left in writing the complete list of non-compliances of all that Mr. Feijóo and his government did not do in ten years of absolute majority and in seven years of rule of Mr. Rajoy's State, four of absolute majority as well. He saved us the job. They bring an initiative which is a cheap and bad propaganda pamphlet. That's why we tabled an amendment with 24 measures that, if I'm a genuine Welsh Agenda with credibility, because we've been defending it from the AGE Group in this legislation here and in the Congress of Deputies, in the Town Councils and in the streets with citizens' movements. Interestingly, many of the proposals that you bring in this propaganda pamphlet are presented in this House during this legislation and yet you have constantly voted against them, here and in the state, and elsewhere are science fiction. Do you want to bet on a Dwarf agenda that's ten years late? Well, you accept our amendment, if you want a minimum of Galicia and its people, and we reach an agreement for them, because to be able to subscribe cheap and bad propaganda pamphlets like this one won't find us. Look, I'm going to give you a number of clear examples of how the Greeks and the Greeks and our intelligence come to insult today; proposals that you've always discarded or directly opposed: New model of more favourable autonomic financing for Galicia. Galicia's PP has always been against. They never asked for increases in government budgets for health care and their staff, for dependency or for children's schools of 0-3 years. They didn't even talk about them. Infrastructure: rail, roads, intermodal... disaster! They're going to blow up a new poison in Ourense, as it doesn't suit their intermodal decision. Transfers to Galicia in ten years, zero, but Mr. Puy looks perfect. They do not ask - nor beg him - the specific judges in the field of violence against Galicia, which so fail us, but violet ties, to more. In demanding the creation of the specific Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office for Galicia, with such a serious problem that we have with this grapple for the Welsh public archives, you are always against it. The party condemned for corruption in this is consistent with its actions. Watch out for the management of Xacobeo and for the contracts of the Way Sound! because there are signs of irregularities to see where they end up. Public self-contained housing park that in three years responds to nearly 14,000 Greeks. The PP is against it. You agree with your disastrous public park, which, ever since you set out to walk, has the urge to rent three homes. They've been destroying Welsh public health for ten years and agonizing Sergas, their staff and patients. In the face of any proposed improvement on primary care or so many health-care needs, the PP is always against. Before the rise of the minimum inter-professional wage and the rise of pensions - that in Galicia we have the lowest in the state, especially women, and that was what he did in fifteen days that fiendish government and our minister Yolanda Díaz, which benefits more than one million Greeks and galleys -, the crazy PP and against. And before a real industrialization plan for Galicia, which, since you've ruled, since 2009, we've had 22,500 industrial jobs less, the PP has also opposed. Before the port transfers, the PP against. And I'll be done. The maximum example is that of AP-9. Seven times they voted against demanding in this House the transfer of AP-9; yes, they again approved a new concession which is a robbery to the armed hand and which has subjected the most expensive increase of the Spanish state. And as if this wasn't enough, the only occurrence of the board to compete with the Vigo Christmas lights is to propose a luminous deployment on the Rande bridge that will cost between 500,000 and a million euros. Which, Mr. Puy, outrages us enormously. We want a reduction of the fees before the freeway, which we've been defending for years and years with their vote and position against, no less than the same thing as Madrid's broken and rescued radials with the public money of the Madrid PP. It's been easy. That's your commitment to the Greek Agenda, really? Look, don't make us laugh.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u184	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u185	...Mr. Puy, who is very serious, and I repeat to you, paper menu touched him today!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u186	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u187	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Puy, if this wasn't such a serious matter, I could say that, within this epistollary fury that has recently characterized them, this would or might be Mr. Alberto's letter to the Government of Spain, chapter II, because Chapter I was the appearance of the vice president - verses 1 to 25. At that time Feijóo said, "These are our demands to the Government of Spain." But no, the matter is serious and it must not give rise to chance. You said in your first intervention that this government was made up of strange bedmates. I understand that saying "bedmates" adds a lower qualitative value than saying marriage, because language is not neutral and the way to say things, either. But the truth is that marriage, bedfellows or actually couples, as they want to call you, is what you have with whom you question the autonomic model, which you so firmly supported in defending in your appearance. [[Applause]] And we're talking about the Galician Agenda, not the Galician Agenda or the Galician Agenda; we're talking about the Galician Agenda because you're approaching the autonomous community. And, as you said, within that encircling that they make up both governments in a federal cut-off system, as in fact it's the autonomic, because they provide services to two governments about the same population, both governments, I understand, they have obligations, and therefore they both have to promote initiatives. And here, in this Galician Agenda, there are only obligations for one of the governments. So the necessary question we need to ask ourselves is, isn't Galician Agenda part of the action of Galician Union itself? Or is this initiative that you are presenting itself a separate part of the Popular Party program? [[Applause]] Because the moment we confuse government and party we have a serious problem. Of course, that's not a new ex-problem in this autonomous community with you in the Government. Our group has tabled fifteen amendments to this non-law proposal. And I want to draw attention to it because it's all an indicator that, from those fifteen amendments, 13 is an addition. So we don't question the text before them either, but we just think it's necessary to add something. And the other two are modifications. Within the amendments, of course, we have to talk about point 1 of the famous war of the IVE. The famous war of the IVE is a problem that has generated a government of the People's Party, and you don't want public opinion to be aware that this problem was generated by the Minister Montoro with that regularization of the year 2017 of the IVE, which I suppose would have settled eleven months in that year and thirteen in the following year. We therefore believe that the solution to this problem should be for adequate funding from the Autonomous Community, which includes - moreover, let us put it - issues that are specifically pending, such as the 2017 VAT and other items and incentives that are legally appropriate. In paragraph 3, of the approval of the National Strategy against the demographic challenge, you are to talk about policies of demographic challenge, of appropriate answers. So we also amend by saying that the German Government must make important decisions in this area. From point 5, on the implementation of pending railway infrastructures in Spain, we will talk today a little bit more widely, but you will come to ask for this just when the Court of Auditors has just made public what you have just done is for a note. Because since the German Government will have something to say on the Galician Agenda, it might also be relevant for you to present some kind of momentum for the Plan Move. Mr. Puy, it's absolutely impossible -- because a simple account says you'd have 20 seconds to talk about each of the amendments -- that I report absolutely everything we have amending. You know the text, you know that nothing that we lack there is the truth and therefore it is your responsibility, if you want to reach a real commitment and support from our group with this Galician Agenda, that the Government of the Galician Union also assumes the responsibilities it has within this quasifederal or autonomous system that characterizes us. We therefore ask him, if he wants our support, to approve our amendments. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u188	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u189	Mr. President, thank you very much. I started by saying that we were talking about the relations of the Autonomous Community with the State. So it's logical that this should focus on it. The rest of us are talking about what the board has to do. Now we're talking good about the Greeks, which is what the Council and Parliament of Galicia have to ask the state in a context of a quasi-federal government, where there are two legitimately democratic governments that care for the same people. And on that agenda, as it became clear at the vice president's appearance, there are things behind the AP-9 that we always vote for here and that they didn't come out in Madrid. They didn't even come out when the socialists were ruling during Zapatero's time, which we also asked for. There are things that were under way and that the Government, with the motion of censure, could not materialize. For example, we have the background that the Government of the People's Party paid 85 million euros as an incentive for being a fulfilling community in 2016, we have the background that the People's Party included this in the budgets and we have the background that the Socialist Government has completely ignored what the budgets say in the years 2017, 2018 and that it owes us 170 million euros. So there were things that were tied up that remained and there were new things. We've already said that there was no problem that electro-intensive companies were shut down; it was you who messed up electro-intensive companies. I wasn't closing the bridge power station if you couldn't move forward with the energy transition, making it unfair. And there was no problem with the Law of Back because it was interpreted properly, and it was his government that declined to defend that interpretation in the courts. So these are things that were before, that were tied up and that you left parked and things where you created new problems. And, of course, this Parliament has every right to pronounce itself on them. We'll see how you pronounce yourself. You're the only one who defended the Government's agreement with the Block is that there's a government, and I think very well; now it's you who have to reconcile the bedmate you chose, one who is against the Constitution, who is an independentist, who wants to support referendums in Catalonia, etc. That's not our problem. The sentence comes from the 19th century. It's a Shakespeare phrase, which says that "charity and need make strange bedmates." It's a British classic. Of course, you can choose who you share your rest with, but you know it's you who share it and not, of course, us. Mr. Bará, your perfumes don't give me the slightest relief, you may be quiet. What I have seen and you have not denied is that you, as long as you have the opportunity, are in support of the Socialist Party, always; they did in the days of Zapatero and now, at the last moment, with the Government of Mr. Sánchez. And they do it by agreeing with the Socialist Party that there was in Galicia in many years — which we can check every day — and with which they approved an budget that was the most harmful to Galicia in many years. You were talking about dogs. There's a German saying, "To the dog that a lot of barks throws a bone and you'll see it shuts up." We've seen that you've quickly shut up with the Socialist Party. [[Applause]] And look, the Welsh Members of the People's Party, of the same party that governs in Galicia, were the ones who managed to save Spain and Galicia from the rescue, so we didn't pay the doctors, as they do in Portugal, with the left-wing government, for example. Members of the People's Party in the Courts completed most of the high-speed works. Even Abalos himself acknowledged, when he introduced the Budget Project, which reduced investment in Galicia. He told them it was because AVE was already finished. The president who in the full economic crisis has licited works for more than 200 million euros for the Lugo-Santiago highway was supported by the Members of the People's Party. The Cantabrian highway ended the People's Party. It started in 2015...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u190	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u191	...the Atlantic Railway Axis, after an investment of more than 800 million euros in legislation, and we also managed, the People's Party Members in Congress, to stop paying 7 million dollars a year for the fees that the Board, governed by the BNG, decided to generously subsidize the Ministry of Development. Mr. Bará, when Mr. Rego has a balance sheet at least equal to that of the Members of the People's Party in Madrid, who come here, and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u192	About the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u193	...we'll recognize him, but first of all, he brought something.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u194	About the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u195	Mr President, ask me to speak on the amendments. We offer BNG to incorporate the theme of the Joint Transfer Commission, its third point, as an addendum of our sixth point, there is no drawback. And even in spite of the conciliatory and always outstanding spirit that brought Mrs. Santos to this forum, we are willing to accept, for the sake of that consensus, the point of the food chain, which is the 24th of her amendment, and to incorporate it into our text. It's a new problem for those who have emerged, as we're seeing from the demonstrations of farmers. We don't want to replace your point on the Back Law, which is 13, by our 12, and even accept your amendment on the electrointensive companies, which would be to replace the 10 that has the PP written by the 21 of the Left Joint Group. Of the amendments of the Socialist Party, I'll read one. So about electro-intensive companies, what I'm proposing is: the difference in what happened when the PP ruled, which didn't even start a statute for the electro-intensive ones, we value the Government's work and we urge to speed up the deadlines as soon as possible. They're going to speed up the deadlines as soon as possible to make a statute of electrointensives that had to be approved at the first government ministers' council. [[Murmurs.]] Look, the truth is, I'd rather not read a lot of your amendments... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u196	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u197	...because they're a little embarrassed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u198	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u199	And we're still embarrassed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u200	Thank you, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u201	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u202	We proceed to the vote on non-legislative proposals. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u203	We started by voting for the Joint Parliamentary Group. I was pending a transaction. If you don't read it, Mr. Villares...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u204	Mr. President, there's a transaction that knows all the groups of the structuring of the non-law proposition in three points. So we're also asking for a point-by-point vote, which is the three of them, and they know all the groups.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u205	Well, then, we agree with that transaction. And we call for a point vote. Do we have to separate the three points? Just the second point? [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Assentment.]] Let's vote, then, the second point. We vote. Vote for the second point of the proposed non-law of the G.P. Jointly, on the recognition and regulation by the Greek Government of the figure of the school nurse and the impulse of an agreement between the boards with competences in education and health for the provision of a square in public and private concerted schools. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 18; votes against, 41; abstentions, 15. The result of the vote is negative. This second point is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u206	We vote for the rest of the points of this transaction. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Together, except for the second point, about the recognition and regulation by the Greek Government of the figure of the school nurse and the impulse of an agreement between the boards with competences in education and health for the provision of a square in public and private concerted schools. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this text is rejected and therefore this proposal is not a law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u207	We now vote for the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Ms Patricia Vilán Lorenzo. The amendment of the Joint Parliamentary Group is not accepted. And a transaction with the groups was pending... I don't know, you'll read us that transaction.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u208	The original text has been kept. And the addition amendment to BNG is added from where it puts "asmade, urges the Galician Union", to "not to be a prompt change, but a substantial revision of the conditions collected in the current PXOM". And it ends there at that point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u209	Thank you. We vote for that transaction. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the processing of the project to build a shopping centre, a new sports city and a green area according to the convention signed between the Royal Club Celta de Vigo and the Council of Mos. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u210	We are now voting for the Group of the Left's Joint Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Jove González. The amendment of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group is not accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. On the initiative of Mr Xan Xosé Jove González and Mr Paula Quinteiro Araújo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to increase the fishing opportunities of the sector in the manner, ensuring the sustainability of the species in inland waters. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 74. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u211	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Martín Fernández Prado. The amendments were not accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. On the initiative of Mr Martín Fernández Prado and the other eight Members, on the measures to be taken in Galicia to demand from the Spanish Government to correct the decision to leave the railway stations of Ortigueira, Burela, Sarria, Viveiro, O Carballiño, Ribadavia, Guillarei and Round it and take the necessary steps to ensure the maintenance of this service at the affected stations. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 74. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u212	We now vote for the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Ms Maria de la Concepción Burgo López. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Maria de la Concepción Burgo López and D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Galicia to resume the construction project of the Museum of the Romanization of Galicia in San Fernando, Lugo. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u213	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr. Xosé Luís Bará Torres. He accepts the amendment of the Joint Parliamentary Group. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and five other Members, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Galicia to reactivate the pending transfers of the State, as well as to encourage the reform of the structure of the State to national feelings of belonging. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u214	Finally, we voted for the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia, on the initiative of Mr Pedro Puy Fraga. The amendments were not accepted, but a transaction, which was explaining...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u215	I do not think there has been a specific position on the amendments to the Joint Group, and we also call for a point vote. So let's stick to that request.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u216	Mr. Puy, do you need some time? [[Mr. Puy Fraga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Well, let's temporarily suspend the full so they can talk.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u217	Mr. Puy, anytime. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u218	There was no deal. I literally quote Mr. Bará: "because they prefer other bedmates."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u219	Thank you. So we voted as the proposal is. We vote. Vote of the motion for a non-law of the People's Party of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr Pedro Puy Fraga and fifteen other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the priority requests set out in the Galician Agenda, adopted by the Council of June 31 October 2020. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 4; abstentions, 29. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u220	We suspended the session until 6:00 p.m., four in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u221	We resumed the plenary meeting. Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the policy of the Government of Greece in relation to the cultural sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u222	To formulate the inquiry, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u223	Good afternoon to all and to all. Good afternoon too, Mr. Rodríguez. Today since the BNG we bring these interpellations to speak of culture, and speaking of cultural politics would deserve all afternoon, but we do not have it — the time is limited — what we can — and I think that it is good, that it is necessary and that we must do — is to remember, because you have been ruling this country for more than ten years. And what happened in Galicia over the last decade? That you have acted, Mr. Rodríguez, as a genuine brigade of the demolition of this country's culture. [[Applause]] And we're going to make some memory. When the People's Party arrived at Galicia, we went back to an era that you love, so they travel with us now, in 2009, there was in this country a Galician Agency of Cultural Industries, recently created, with huge potential in addition. A Book Law and Reading Law — for unanimity, for example, was just practically just adopted, a Law of Book and Reading Law had just been practically adopted by practically practically a Law of Book and Reading Law — for one instance, by unanimity and reading — for the certainty, by unanimity, for a certainty — in this chamber, which placed the editorial sector for the first time as a strategic sector; it would be approved a Galley Plan of performing arts, with consensus with the sector; there would be a Galega Audiovisual Galega Audiovisual Agency, which was a reference point in the state as a whole of the state, and of which the new Italian cinema was born, which is of course the new Galician cinema, which is being born for the first time as a strategic sector, which many successes us here in the country, but also at the international level; we would have a galego.tvvvvvv at a moment at which we were not even talking about the digital platforms; the Coreographic Centres Galego, which had a very varied series of work lines of works and programmes, which were very varied and a very varied and programmes of work programme, which have a very varied and programmes for which have a very varied and programmes for which have a very varied, which have a very varied and programmes of works. very varied, and programmes of activities and programmes and programmes of which have a very widely. which have a very varied and programmes for which have a very quickly made and programmes for which have a very quickly, which have a very quickly, which have a wide, which have a wide, which have a wide, which have a wide, which have a wide, which have a wide, which have made and a wide, and a wide, and a wide, which have a wide, which have a variety of which have a wide, which have a wide, which have a wide, and a wide, which have a wide, which have a wide, which have a wide, which have a wide, which have a wide, which have a wide, which have a wide, and a wide, and a wide, and a variety, and a variety of programmes for which have a variety of which have a wide, and a variety of programmes and a variety of programmes and a wide, and a variety of which have a variety of which have a variety of which have a variety of which have a variety of which have a variety of which have a wide, and a wide In ten years, Mr. Rodríguez, in ten years the People's Party dismantled everything, absolutely everything. You started the decade by attacking the Greek language with the evil called "Decree of Plurilingualism," and everything seems to point out that they want to dismantle it, center the center and program the program, the culture of this country. And the proof of the nine of that -- let's call it the dark decade -- at least in the cultural sectors you'll be known to you like this: the dark decade -- we'll find it in the budgets. You've cut down to satiety, to satiety!, 60 percent, only surpassed that cut by the cut they practiced in linguistic policy, which was more than 70%. And even today, in 2020, the crop budget is below what was in 2012. Culture, which is a right — culture is also a right that generates wealth — represents in our country 2% of gross domestic product and more than 3% of employment, even if it is in increasingly precarious conditions. However, the People's Party invests only 0.6% of the budget of the Union in culture, not even 1% of the budget. Ten years of economic suffocation that doesn't stop, and we've reported it since the BNG here in this chamber not long ago. You can see in those cuts that you carried out in the budgets by 2020. The Galego Drama Center, €250,000 less than in 2019; that's a 40% cut. The Galego Coreographic Centre, less than 100,000 euros, 66% cut over the year 2019; and the CGAI, 50,000 euros less; by the way, it remains undirected and many of us fear that you intend to do the same with it as with the Coreographic Center. Because you — I have to tell you — are insatiable, insatiable, and they won't stop until they're done. [[Applause]] They also cut off the money that should go to the cultural sectors to continue fattening the Xacobeo show. Ten years also reducing the production of public centres, in particular the Coreographic and Dramatic Centre, to the minimum expression. And a good example we have at the Dramatic Center, which has developed, to produce five productions a year, and now, with the budget you have, bad as well, reaches one. I also welcome, on behalf of the BNG, the new director of the Drama Center, Fran Núñez, and sincerely wish you every success. With less than 250,000 euros than the previous direction, the same thing we see is to perform the miracle of pancakes and fish. Ten years of cultural reform, no longer without consensus, no longer without consensus, directly, no dialogue or information, as we saw with the new status of Agadic; a reform that publicly denounced not only the BNG in this chamber — which also — but the Association of Actors and Actors, the Galaga Academy of Theatre, the dance or music sector to the Vivo. Because it goes against, Mr Rodríguez — and you know it perfectly — the interests of this country's culture, in the opposite direction of the demands of the sector, demands that have been repeatedly expressed for years; so many times they have formulated them as you have failed them. Look, from the BNG we asked them at that time to withdraw this proposal for the very serious consequences that it would have especially for production units. Mr. Sutil in commission has dedicated himself to denying, for active and passive, that the reform was to introduce such changes, that it would remain all the same, and only a few days later, in the framework of a few days organized by the Council of Culture, he jumped the hare and announced the de facto disappearance of the Galego Coreographic Center. He's out of direction, he's out of his own department, and with the few 50,000 euros left in the budgets, Mr. Rodríguez, it's the same thing to make him disappear. And you know what we've been telling you since BNG? That we come here, that we come here, that the first thing they have to do is to get Mr. Sutil out as director of Agadic, that he is a person who is not up to the circumstances, and the worst of all is that he does not have the slightest will to be. [[Applause]] We ask them, in addition, very earnestly, that as soon as they can stay in Galicia's Union to stop, to really stop, to stop dismantling this country's culture. Look, we're taking all the legislation and asking them to open a negotiating table, which they feel with the cultural sectors, that they feel with the entities that represent especially the performing arts and dance and that they provide the Dramatic Center and the Coreographic Center of Autonomy, an own status and an autonomous entity of management, which is what marks the Agadic Creation Act of 2008. Because this country, Mr Rodríguez, truly, truly deserves more, than having a government in the hands of a political force which, instead of taking advantage of all the potential that this country has, has been dedicated to ending everything that represents the identity of this country for ten years. Stop, stop real and correct, withdraw that reform from Agadic and open up an honest negotiating table, and at least at least listen. [[Applause]] Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u224	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Reply by the Councillor for Culture and Tourism, Mr. Román Rodríguez González.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u225	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Rodil, the truth is, listening to you and seeing the visa, she began her intervention by saying that the People's Party had been ruling this country for ten years — fortunately — and surely, having seen the visa, she'll put at least four more, eh!, no doubt four more, because if all her planning on this line is based on and based on claiming a legacy, I think that quite dark, in the field of culture, however, basically by what the creators say in the field of culture in Galicia, because really four more years we're going to be very quiet with you in your line of work. [[Applause]] He's talking about dismounting, cutting. Let's say it's an absolutely serious speech. I think it was said in the morning: maximum budgeting in a specific area of the Galician Union, and they're still talking about cuts. Everything breaks down. Well, the truth is, unlike you, we have and feel a great pride in our culture, we are tremendously proud of our culture and our creators. He has good health and great protagonists in Galicia, no doubt. And we do it without any pride, do it with humility, and always respecting all the cultural manifestations of the country. And I think not only in Galicia does culture have good health, but it certainly makes recognitions from outside, both nationally and internationally. I'm also concerned about what you say — which is already customary, because I've heard it over and over — that Jacob is a spectacle that does not support culture. I would simply invite you to visit the exhibition "Galicia, a story in the world." If that's not culture, we'll really be wrong, but otherwise you'll be wrong. I even think that some prominent leader of the Block made some allusions to this Xacobeo exhibition, so that you question whether it's culture or not. Because it's also very easy, and I think it also takes a plus of a certain sovereignty to be those who define what is culture and what is not culture, what deserves that qualification and what doesn't deserve that qualification. I mean, I like this because it's what I like, and obviously this is the good one, the good one, the clean one, and the clean one. [[Applause]] We really have a very different way. As I say, he's enjoying very good iron health, when there's thought a recognition, I'm no longer saying in Galicia, outside of Galicia tremendously positive. You also say in your explanatory statement that the announcement of the reform of the status of Agadic has had a great impact on you; in particular, it says "perplexity." We are faced with an organizational and technical reform, absolutely organizational and technical, which obviously will not undergo any change in everyday work in the agency; simply to make an internal structure and management better than there was. We understand culture — let us say — with three clear foundations. First, culture is a right, it is an essential service for all Greeks — who want to make it very clear —. The second, we also understand that culture is a symbol of our identity as a people, but never excluding or never confronting anyone, never to separate; it is a symbol of identity and pride, and we understand that creators have to support them and always have to free them, keeping the limits of respect always, to create what they understand. And third, we also understand it as a source of wealth and generation of employment. These are the spinal axes of our cultural action, our cultural policy, and we're doing this in this sense. And look, the new legal framework with the new statute has already been explained here, I explained it to a question you asked me, explained it also in a parliamentary commission, and I will certainly repeat it very quickly, so that the people who are listening to us know what the great changes are going to dismantle the country's cultural policy. First, the creation of a manager. Creating a manager in a public agency means dismantling the country's culture; well. This will serve to coordinate administrative action and ensure that there is no delay, as has been — and very strong and deep — in the time of payments and management to companies. This is a tremendously demanded position by the sector and is an absolutely technical position. The second big change is that the Galego Art Center of the Image will be included within the Agadic structure; before it was not functional. Also that there is a functional structure change is something that will completely dismantle the country's culture. And you say, it's just that you have no director. And I say to them, you are without a director, as you know perfectly well, because today your director retired and we are waiting for the approval of the new statute to be able to take out the square and cover it completely normally, as was done in other production centers. And the last relevant change is the creation of a specific department for the promotion and support of Welsh dance. From this department will depend on the Galego Coreographic Center, which, as you know, has a role, has a mission, which is to boost Welsh dance with different programs, and which will work on the professionalization of the sector, in the production of new shows and in the dissemination and distribution of dance. These are the changes, there are no others. If from here you interpret that there is a systematic attack and a search to try to destroy the country's culture, for you have every right to think about it, and I have every right to think that you are absolutely wrong. But while you think about it, we keep working, and we keep working, I think with a lot of common sense. And look, in this field, in the field of dance, we're going to put in place a plan to boost the Welsh dance. This will be done in a consensual way, a table will be set up and everything will be represented, the whole sector. There will be an analysis, the situation will be evaluated, the challenges of the future will be seen, and we will begin to work with total normality without any problems, and with great transparency, within the Galician Agency of Cultural Industries. Transparency, legality, participation and equality for the whole sector. And look, we understand that culture doesn't have any kind of political registration, much less, nor is it the heritage of any political formation. We understand that culture should not be politically directed, or much less, and that the freedom of creators must always be respected. And in this sense, we're going to continue working, because in these years what we've been able to do is stabilize, it's to give certainty to a cultural sector, to a sector of cultural industries that we understand -- and we understand -- that must be done in this way, without any kind of political leadership, without any kind of political imposition, without any kind of political ideology. And we would certainly like you, just as we are, to be proud of our culture, of our creators, because they are the best show that, despite your absolutely catastrophic messages, culture in Galicia has very good health. Because you interpret and assimilate, simple and flatly, budget culture, and I've already told you more times: it's not so much that you have to know how to spend what you have, or how to invest what you have, and really at times you've had more budgets and bad results. With which I make a call to join this pride of our country, which is our culture, which normally sees these changes, which are technical changes. I also remember here when they questioned the Galego Drama Center, which was close to the disaster, that the public drama scene in Galicia was about to disappear. Why? Because the director who existed was offered a new destiny of great prestige and fortunately accepted it; he opened a public contest, absolutely transparent, and it took time to assign the new director, and in that impasse, according to you, we were making a real attack on our culture. You quoted here Fran Núñez, the new director. We all want you to have a lot of success, that the Welsh culture, the Welsh theatre and the Welsh dance have a lot of success, and I think that, instead of questioning, attacking and not believing in the strength of our culture, we should make a collective call to be proud of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u226	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u227	Thank you, President. I don't know if he takes us for fools, really; I also told Mr. Sutil in the commission and I repeat it to you. You know exactly what the consequences of the reform of the status of Agadic are and the Sutil himself had to end up recognizing it in front of the dance and the arts sector itself of the movement, and recognizing that the Galego Coreographic Center is loaded as a production unit, which is loaded with the direction of the Galego Coreographic Center and which leaves it dwindling, waving, with 66% of the budget less than in 2019, and that translates into 50,000 Euros, 50,000 Euros for the year 2020. Look, we don't belong to anything. You say that everything is consensual, everything is dialogued, you are in absolute connection — spiritual almost — with all the cultural sectors of this country. I'm going to tell you and I'm going to read what they say directly — no filters — they and them, what they think of the reform of Agadic's status, what they think of the continued cuts. You can't go up this rostrum and question it or deny it, because it's in your budgets, and so far I think that you and I know how to add and stay, right? and the rest of the House. What does the Association of Actresses and Actors of Galicia say?, without filters, directly: "In the case of the Galego Dramatic Center, we have been witnesses for a decade of constant and repeated abuse that is exercised over an entity with more than thirty-five years of history, which, as this association has denounced on repeated occasions, saw how, season after season, it reduced its recruitment, its production, its rotations," "its budgets and its impact among the public. In addition, the Administration — that is you — "has not been able to solve so far the bureaucratic complications that suffocate the normal functioning of the Galego Dramatic Center." [[Applause]] And what do you think of the Galaga Academy of Theatre?, without filters, directly: "The Galaga Academy of Theatre, in front of recent news on the budget cuts to the Dramatic Center, the Coreographic Center and the CGAI, wants to express its repulsion by opacity, lack of communication and darkness in making decisions that affect institutional theatrical management agencies, the lack of cultural commitment and recognition of the values of the theatre in the defence of language and the disproportionate reduction of budgets for production units dependent on the Galician Agency of Cultural Industries." Do you really have the shame of coming back to this rostrum and making the noise that you just made right now, of taking us all as fools? [[Applause]] Honestly, how is 60 percent of the crop budget going to be cut?, do we have the Culture Council today under the budget it had in the year 2012? Is that what it is? Support her and love her a lot? Well, hold her a little less, honestly, Mr. Rodríguez, hold her a little less. [[Applause]] I repeat what I told you in my first intervention. I am absolutely convinced that today we are not alone in this chamber and that there are people in the world and cultural sectors in this country who are following this debate through, fortunately, the technological tools that exist today to be able to see them from anywhere in the country. I ask you to rectify, withdraw the proposal for reform of the status of Agadic, which, if you are so willing to speak, will open up a negotiating table, which feels with all the entities representing the cultural sectors of this country — and in particular the performing arts and the movement — and to talk about the changes that may or will be made. But they negotiate, dialogue and, above all, they listen, because they go contrary, first, to the repeated demands of the sector and then also to the contrary to what the Agadic Creation Act itself says in 2008. And then the last one -- and this is over, president. I urge you: stop. If they're so proud and they want the culture of this country, stop. And in time, little by little, that I hope they'll stay at the board of Galicia, they stop dismantling Galician cultural sectors. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u228	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Close the gap, Councillor for Culture and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u229	Well, Mrs. Rodil, with all due respect and affection, we won't listen to him, we won't stop, at least we'll work until the last day; while we have responsibility for the Greeks, until the last day. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] It seems logical to you that we stop, that the Administration should stop, because there will be within "x" months -- more or less months -- an electoral process. Look, we're not here, we just work for him. Maybe we're wrong, but we're just working. And, look, the new status. I don't understand that much pollution, because we're absolutely in front of an organization, in front of an internal functional restructuring. It is true that if the current statutes came from the year 2008 and were a great work of the Bipartite, in that case of the BNG, because I certainly understand that you have to defend them. But I certainly think I told you clearly what there were, what the principles are, the creation of a manager, the creation of a dance department, an internal reorganization. And if that is to dismantle culture, simply, I can't share that perception in any case, Mrs. Rodil. Look, it says the Coreographic Center is going to disappear. I'll tell you no. It's going to change the subscription, it's going to continue the same, it's going to keep doing what it does: training, production, distribution and dissemination. He's going to do exactly that, except for a specific department. Now, if you understand that this is dismantling, because we are certainly not going to agree, unfortunately we won't be able to do it. And, of course, we won't be able to agree either if you interpret the results and the effects of a public policy based only on a number that is in the budget and only on a concrete share of the budget. It's not spending any more, Mrs. Rodil — I have said — it's spending better; it's been shown that you can spend much better; I have said it. Agadic has some budgets, but in the Council of Culture, in the specific sphere of dance and theatre, there are other areas that do promotion, value-added, dance- and theatre-projection actions. Without going any further, these days are celebrating Scenes of Change, I invite you to go — if you haven't —; you know it's an absolutely vanguard festival, breaker, the latest world trends at the theater level are there. They're not in the Agadic budget, no, they're not, they're in the City of Culture budgets. International scope, it's out in the media at both national and international levels and it's not in the Agadic budgets. You see what bad we are in this council. I'm inviting you to go these days. [[Murmurs.]] You're also talking about Jacob -- you said so before. There's a project callback order on Xacobeo. Last year, around 300 projects were financed, which went from bottom to top, which came out of civil society. In them there was a fundamental part oriented to cultural industries, businesses, and they all went from bottom to top and had very direct support. But, of course, you say, no, the Xacobeo takes away his investment in the country's culture. Well, we don't get them out of there, I suppose someday they'll tell us otherwise. These days we are presenting two major programs: "Jacobeo cities", to the main cities of the country; and "Jacobeo, a way," to the small cities, to the villages, to the comarca headers. You'll see if Xacobeo bets or not bets on an absolutely inclusive, diverse culture that supports emerging actors, based on traditional culture. He'll say it, he will, and he'll say it, and he'll see how there's an action of the absolutely Greek "Jacobeo, a path" that will boost the Greek cultural industries, with an idea of decentralization, of reaching everywhere. [[Mrs. Rodil Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] Agadic's networks? Look, I'm going to tell you one thing: Agadic's networks are the main networks in Galicia, no doubt, in production, programming and exhibition of shows. In the last luxury there were six thousand shows, six thousand performances or functions in different municipalities of the country sheltered within the Agadic networks, with about a million spectators in these five years. And as much as you say, these figures are higher than the Bipartite figures, which had a lot more money, but they should do much worse because people weren't going to show. If you compare event and show attendance data, there is no comparison, simply no comparison. [[Murmurs.]] And, look, about cultural employment, when you compare the current employment to that time, I can tell you that today we are almost 3% of the country's employment, which is nothing smaller, and we are around 30,000 jobs. With which, indeed, in cultural industry issues, in promotion issues, in topics of culture betting, there is much to be done, no doubt, but it has also been done a lot, and above all it has been done very much taking into account the conditions that you — the fantastic government you have quoted — have left this country — I remind you — two billion duty-bound and Agadic has made a codero...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u230	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u231	...a Agadic made an absolute coladero in the field of management and payments. You ask the creators when they charge, how they charge, and I say nothing more. [[Murmurs.]] With which I thank you for defending — for the country thus sees it — its inheritance. It was an inheritance that obviously has positive aspects, of course, but that needs an adjustment, and that's what's going on. But, from this absolutely change of functional structure, that you raised a bigger question, a question of criticism, of the total crisis of our culture...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u232	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u233	...simplely it has little foundation and very little weight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u234	Thank you, Counselor. La Maria Luisa Pierres López and two other members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Government of Galicia in relation to non-compliance with the obligations reflected in the law of dwelling of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u235	To formulate the inquiry, you have the floor to Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u236	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Mrs Vázquez. Counselor, you certainly know the popular saying of "where you've gone, do whatever you see." This saying, which invites us to adapt to the customs of a country, in the case of construction in Galicia is highly dangerous. And along with "you're doing" or "don't be stupid, do what others do," it's absolutely devastating to change the collective consciousness and social responsibility that all of us should have. As far as housing is concerned too much bad practices are concerned, that's the truth, and as we don't want to see it going through bad habits, we believe that we need to talk about them today and at least quantify them with you. So today, we want to share a number of issues that affect the current Law 8/2012, of June 29, of Galician housing, and the non-compliances that about its articulation are being made to a greater or lesser extent and in its practical application in Galician ensemble. On the one hand, as you know, the Law on Urban Rentals, Law 29/1994, establishes in its article 36 the possibility that autonomous communities will force the deposit of the bonds corresponding to the renters of the urban estates. And this issue was raised both in the Housing Act of 2008 — the Bipartite Law — and then also in Decree 42/2011, so it is established precisely for the deposit of these bonds in the area of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. This question, which, moreover, has been maintained — and logically, it has been collected in the current housing law of 2012, — is the law that is in force today. There are many communities that have this same mechanism and this same regulation, and it is true that many of them develop in a very similar way. In the case of the Greek authorities, the obligation affects contracts for leases from urban farms which are intended both for housing and for use other than housing, but also for loans which, by any means, are made to persons who are paid to supplies or services in the conclusion of contracts affecting housing and other urban buildings. And here comes the first surprise of the law, and I say surprise by the perception that since our group we have what the law says and what really happens. As you perceive a more or less generalized compliance in the deposit of the bonds of housing renters and their attachments, the garages or rocks, at the Galician Institute of Housing, it does not seem that this happens when these bonds refer only to the garages or only to the rocks. I invite all of them — and you, Counsellor — to carry out the experience of renting a garage and doing so through a lease contract, and hence legally and with the greatest transparency. I can tell you many examples but one I know very well close, which is in Pontevedra. The number of garage squares in Pontevedra that are rented without a contract is so brutal that it itself prevents many people from doing so through contract, because doing so will mean that the owners have to adapt their price precisely to the average price that marks the garage squares that are rented illegally. And it's very surprising, because these offers in addition to rentals are most of the times announced in real estate portals, and, except for cases among individuals that are known and therefore of difficult detection, they also usually are advertised even in building portals and therefore are fully public and detectable. It might seem that what we bring here today is a minor matter, but the truth is, when we quantify it, it doesn't seem so small. In towns and cities of more than 20,000 inhabitants — and according to data from the IGE itself — it is found that there are about one hundred and fifty thousand car owners who do not have parking lot. And although many of these squares we could think that they find rent in specific parking lots made for this purpose in the particularly central areas of the cities, and others that do it occupying outdoor squares, a large number, Counsellor, are secretly rented in rented squares. Even though we're talking about only 30% of that total, we'd be talking about about about about 50,000 squares, and this would mean a bail raised and deposited from the order of between six and ten million euros, since if they were different from the house's uses, twice as much monthly would be out. And it doesn't seem, therefore, such a minor matter, and I understand that you're with me on it. And today our duty is to logically ask you why you have contemplated in the decree this kind of urban estate, in that decree that was regulated in 2011, if it's not really pursued and not controlled effectively. We are also aware that this work should be coordinated with the State Fairy. But, in any case, there would be — we understand — to work in a coordinated way to improve precisely that relationship, that coordination with the State, and to do it all in a better way. And what worries us even more: the fear that this that happens openly with garage squares may also be happening with many of the rental apartments that are also published on web portals. And, yes, we also see that this happens, because every year — and if you see how it can be detected and transferred to us — there are, for example, children who are refused to get a place in school because actually living in the school area that would correspond to them cannot get the square because their parents cannot confirm their residence because they do not have legal leases; it is tremendous, but it is so. So there are many channels, it's something known and known. That is why we today want to bring the debate on all these small issues, which are actually multiplied by thousands of cases, not only socially known fraud but also which also prevents the autonomous administration in this case from making these extra funds available for precisely — as you know — rehabilitation and housing policy promotion works, which we believe is really important. Because, moreover, since the first meeting of Galicia, the model that has taken place in other autonomous communities has been taken on board and in which this type of property has been excluded directly from that regulatory decree. In any case, we do think that this is not the solution, logically, but it is clear that the council has to deal with or take new control models and in a coordinated manner — as we said — with the ministry, to take into account in addition those new tools that have been put in place — the dissemination and advertising that also affect housing, but also many other assets — to detect them and demand that compliance with legal obligations be met. [[Applause]] Here, in addition, we touch another point that also seems important to us. The Housing Law perfectly regulates how advertising should be around housing. It may also seem a minor matter and especially at a time when it seems that the housing market has at least paused. But the truth is that today it may be more than ever when many of the homes offered for the sale contain very important and legal ones, precisely those housings that it cost to market because they contain important charges; for example, conditions of off-management, legalizations in processing state, urban situations without capacity for example expanding housing or consolidation. And, except for honourable exceptions, if one takes the trouble of seeing the different real estate portals, one will find itself as multiple, multiple, thousands, the examples of housing that hide in a blatant way all those problems that lead to, and that can — and unfortunately — give the situation of true sense of deception to future owners. Moreover, many of these advertisers are their own banking entities, which find many of the dwellings fruit of embargo properties full of problems that try to hide as much as possible in order to literally get rid of them. Compulsory mentions in advertising that marks its own Housing Law refer to the need to indicate the state of the dwelling, but on those that are already built only the obligation to indicate whether it is already finished; and of course, that a housing is already finished is not telling us more what it is built, but not that it is really legal. It is also true that Article 15 refers to the good faith, transparency and veracity that must have that publicity and the binding condition that will have all the data provided. But the reality is that the feeling you have as a buyer is of total tension and fear of being deceived. And it's not a lesser fear, because it's one of the biggest investments families make. It is true that, once interest has begun, all information required by the buyer to ensure legality will be made available. But we think it would seem appropriate that, in some way, just as a few minimums are indicated in those advertisements, nowadays it would be important to warn and exaggerate that problematic condition of dwellings already in that first information, and maybe even when we talk about such important issues as that condition of illegality or something as obvious as an out-of-management. In this sense it also seems like it would be even interesting to agree with web portals the minimum required fields for the minimum compliance of the law, ads that could not in any case be published if those minimum fields were not completed. The Housing Law also envisages sanctions for all these breaches and for many others that logically at this time will not give us time, sanctions that range from light and grave to very serious. And as we don't know, too -- it's true -- many of these data and, therefore, neither...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u237	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u238	...we can properly evaluate compliance with the law, and since we do not have statistical data, today we asked you, within the inspector's office which corresponds to the IGVS: what type of sanctions have been imposed since the law came into force? What are the main channels by which these different infringements have been detected? What was the total and main destination of money collected and disaggregated for years in terms of sanctions? How do they qualify for this type of collaboration from different administrations...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u239	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u240	...in the detection of infringements? And — I am finished — does the Government believe that it is possible to improve interinstitutional collaboration in this regard, as well as some type of collaboration channels that are also cited to detect and denounce these possible criminal situations? Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u241	Thank you. Response from the Environmental, Territorial and Living Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u242	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Mrs. Pierres, you put it in context and therefore I repeat it again. To answer those questions of this interpellation, one must briefly recall some key notions of Law 8/2012, of June 29, of Galician residence. This law regulates and, therefore, the Council of Galicia acts and, according to this law, the inspections are developed, of which, of course, I will give it information, both of the number and the type of infringement and to which the resources are intended, which in the end are not sanctions, but also of awareness-raising. I hope that what Mrs. Pierres said is going to be done, I think it's already a part of history, or at least it shouldn't be, and if someone keeps doing it, it's our obligation to report it, because it would be a crime. The law therefore regulates the following aspects, which are public housing policies, with particular reference to the technical requirements of quality of these dwellings, the measures to ensure their good use, conservation, maintenance, rehabilitation, the protection of acquirers and housing users — you said — the obligation to deposit loans from urban lease contracts intended for housing or for use other than housing, the legal regime and administrative actions in respect of protected housing in Galicia, as well as other protected housing actions, and finally the inspection and sanctioning regime in respect of housing. And we're dealing with the latter, because it actually includes everything I said before, and in Article 101 of that law there are powers in the field of inspection. As you have well said, under the title of powers and inspectoral activities, in point 1 of the above article the following is drawn up: "Without prejudice to the competences which correspond to other public administrations, the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo will carry out activities to inspect protected housing in the Autonomous Community of Galicia, in order to believe compliance with regulatory rules in this matter as laid down in this law and in its development legislation." And that's what we're doing. So it's up to me, it's up to my counsellor, specifically the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo, to inspect compliance with this matter. Three types — Article 103 — : light, serious and very serious. Infringements: slight ones, between 300 and 3,000 euros; severe ones, between 3.001 and 30,000 euros; and very serious ones, between 30.001 and 600,000 euros. It's the law that regulates the penalties to be imposed in each case. For the sake of this competition, the Galego da Vivenda and Solo Institute has a team of inspectors, which are distributed in the four provincial areas, and another team of inspectors, which are in Santiago de Compostela's central services. This task is carried out on the basis of a monthly programming, prepared in the Inspection Service, which provides, on the one hand, for informal actions, with the objective of covering the entire territory of which we belong throughout the year; on the other hand, another type of inspection is carried out from the complaints received at the Galician Institute of Housing and Solo, which may be from private to business, through another type of administration. In the case of complaints, inspections shall be carried out within the same week in which the complaint is received. So it's good that even if some group thinks there's some publicity in a certain place, let us know, because the same week IGVS acts. The number of inspections carried out — I count it — from the year 2013 until now was a total of 19,649 inspections, with the year 2017 the year in which most inspections were carried out: 3,812; and the year 2013, the year in which the least inspections were carried out, which were 1,304 inspections; last year 2,159 inspections were carried out. In the event that there are signs of irregularities in these inspections, prior inquiries are initiated, with a second inspection, and the request for additional information that is deemed appropriate to be collected, which may also be from municipalities or other bodies. If the pre-delicts confirm the signs of irregularity, the sanctioner shall be initiated by means of a hearing procedure to the parties concerned. The entire proceeding of pre-trial and sanctioning proceedings is regulated by Law 39/2015, of the common administrative procedure of public administrations, and is strictly rejected by the same. As a result of the more than 19,600 inspections carried out by IGVS personnel since 2013, a total of 1,659 sanctioning files have been launched. It should be noted that each sanctioning dossier is intended to carry out several inspections on these dwellings, so, of course, the number of inspections carried out is greater than the number of inspected dwellings. Of the more than 1,600 files initiated, 255 correspond to inspections carried out by the IGVS, which is 15.37%, and 1,404 corresponding to complaints filed by third parties, 84.72%. This data reflects the importance of citizens' day-to-day collaboration with public administration; hence there is much more awareness and so I can't agree that no one cares about it or anyone now says, "You're going to do it." At the same time, inspections of trade are carried out with the object of covering the whole territory, as stated above, and as many dwellings as possible, so a high percentage of these inspections carried out by trade end up with records indicating that there are no indications of infringements or irregularities; that is, the Greeks and the Greeks comply. On the opposite side are the cases of complaints filed by third parties, among which we have a percentage of cases in which, as they are reported, irregularities and infringements are detected and therefore acts. The number of files opened following the complaints is high in respect of the number of inspections carried out by the office. Most of the files started I also have to tell you are minor infringements, followed in numbers by serious infringements and, finally, very serious infringements. In the case of mild ones, it is 84%; in the case of severe ones, 10%; and in the case of very severe ones, it is 5%. Out of the 2,659 files initiated, a total of 1,539 files were processed, the rest being processed. He asked me another question, which is about the collection of sanctions. From 2013 until 2019 a total of EUR 1,696,595.07 is reached, with the last year one of the most important years for collection and penalties imposed has the IGVS, with EUR 316,773.04. Application of sanctioning and taxing regulations. Persons subject to sanctions may request the adjournment or fractionation of payments thereof, so the total amount includes the collection, not the sanction imposed. The amount of sanctions is transferred to the General Box of the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo, so they are destined for housing policies of the Galician Union. In the discharge of sanctions, it should be noted that there are other complementary sanctions, which are not economic fines, such as disability. This sanction can be applied to promoters, builders and — eye — it can also be applied in any case to municipalities, and it will not be the first time it applies, and I can give you an example. And I put this example to him because he often comes out in the media when we talk about collaboration, because administrations also become possible subject of sanctioning files. This is the case of the Vigo Town Hall, to which the Galego Institute of Vivenda and Solo had to realize the possible opening of pre-delicts for keeping empty public promotion housings handed over by the IGVS to the Vigo Town Hall. I hope you've been provided with information on the number of inspections, the type of inspections, the collection and collaboration between administrations, which we have to say is good, but that you also have to notice at some point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u243	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u244	Counselor, unfortunately, there is a culture of "you going to do" and those of us on this subject and I, as an architect, can tell you that every time someone approaches an architect's study, not every time, but many of the time, we see ourselves having to answer the mythical question of "you recommend me to do so without more, don't you?" This is the question that all the Greeks are asking. Because you were actually talking to me about the subject of complaints, how 84% are part of the citizenship itself, and often it also has to do with that, if the one on the side does, why don't they leave me and then I denounce the one on the side. Yes, there's a culture of "you're doing" and I think that's what it would be like to be on the country's feet and see it and perceive it. We're actually talking about sanctions, and you've actually talked about a lot of sanctions here, you've talked about a collection all these years, and you see that they exist, but we're still thinking that it's clearly not all that they should be, because non-compliance -- and I still insist on it -- is much more palpable. And put the example of the garages, and our surroundings is much more than the numbers I see reflected. But, beyond the sanctions, there are other breaches of the law that are also detected and that we also intrude as manifest. One case is the obligation to determine the Housing Law and it is regulated in addition to Decree 17/2016, so the empty housing census of the Autonomous Community of Galicia is created and regulated, which is a decree that obliges credit institutions, its real estate subsidiaries and asset management entities to register in the empty housing census of the Autonomous Community of Galicia housing that are part of housing complexes or buildings of collective residential type. The truth is, we don't know how many homes have been registered in this census, nor do we know the total number of those that have been agreed with the entities, and that are finally made available to families with less resources and at an affordable price. The truth is, according to data published in the press in 2017, the dwellings of banking entities in Galicia were estimated at two thousand six hundred years and the adjudication of only 72 of them to families was also commented on in that press release. We thought it would be interesting to know the state of that census, to know it always in real state, in real time, and of its progress, in addition to today's adjudications, which you certainly know perfectly. And since, moreover, the decree does not oblige private owners, even if it invites them to be part of that census, we also think it would be interesting to know how many of them did it on their own. And it would also seem interesting because the end of that census is to serve as an instrument — and so I expressly said the Government of Greece — to carry out a better social planning of the housing policy; and not really knowing the whole of that reality, it does not seem very feasible to have a totally clear vision, but it will always be partial, and that is why we ask him. Even so, and as you know, the collection of loans from urban farm rental contracts — as you have commented before — can be used to develop rehabilitation activities, but also to promote and build public housing and for direct actions in old or subject to a process of urban renewal. Moreover, Decree 42/2011 specifies that, for these purposes, the organism can make use of, say, 70% of the total amount of these deposits. And what's that annual total? So recently we also knew — two years ago, in February 2018 — that this concept has tripled since 2015 the collection — let's say — the bail deposit, being about 115 million, which I suppose has changed to today. On the one hand, we believe that this data, just as it happens with the Vivenda Register of Applicants, should be known in real time, at all times, and not the blow to press headlines, and, on the other hand, also know what those money is meant for and what actions are being used. We don't know about this either. From our point of view, we think it would be interesting to consider in Galicia, as if it had been done in other communities, the creation of a specific commission that has been committed precisely that follow-up of the investments that are made with the funds from the deposits of the bonds, and most importantly when we are talking about the deposits and the amounts of those we are talking about, which can perfectly become almost half the budget of a council; a commission that would depend beyond the Galego Vivenda Observatory and which, in all respects, does not seem to have made much progress since its implementation by improving precisely that statistical, analytical panorama of housing policies in Galicia. It would, in any event — I repeat — be a commission which would also be composed of representatives of the autonomous administration, but also of local entities or entities related to the promotion and use of housing. We think it would be a commission that would provide some transparency to the use of these funds, and in addition, with more agents involved, we also understand that it would revert to better control and involvement of all and all in ensuring the dissemination and necessity of the fulfilment of the legal deposits of the bonds; a record, in addition, of those bonds, which are, on the other hand, those that are used today — you know — to elaborate the statistical tables, which have been observed for months at the Galego Vivenda Observatory; tables, which, in addition, show us the increase in the average rent price...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u245	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u246	...in a 15% in five years, as well as an increase in the number of renters from EUR 400 and a decrease of those below that figure. The problem is, and you will agree with me — it's over — that, if you don't deposit all the bonds that you are, you can't understand as a real and reliable reference either. In any case, and since they also published aid yesterday for the purchase of housing directed to Thursdays, let me take advantage of it to ask you whether yours will continue to be the policy of doing little.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u247	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u248	Because not only has the empty housing program proved disastrous, but it is now planned for young people under 35 who on the one hand look at the purchase of seventy-five homes in the rural and on the other hand nine houses in historical helmets. With all due respect, this is the dimension of the housing policy that you want for the Greeks and the Greeks. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u249	Thank you. Closure of the inquiry, Environmental, Territory and Living Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u250	Thank you, President. Mrs. Pierres, I have to disagree with you first because I've been mayor and people do it is to approach a council to ask, because you don't have to be familiar, but there's no more "to do," nor does there exist on the part of the mayors or exists on the part of citizenship; people are much more aware. It's true that I have to thank architects and technicians for this work of awareness and dissemination, which is very important in that field. Having said this, I think I have been given information on the obligation of Junta, and those obligations are to inspect, the number of inspections that are carried out, inspections on one side of the office and inspections on the basis of the complaints you have made, but, as you put it here, this seems to be a country without law, and that is not so. First, it's not a country without law; then there's no "you're going to do" and much less people want to get into no trouble. And there we have the APLU and they're less and less of the files that need to be opened because there's growing awareness. And, as there is more awareness, it's not about picking up, but about raising awareness, but, when it's done, it's actually about housing policies. And speaking of rehabilitation, I think it's not going to be a little bit here, Mrs. Pierres; here's a law of rehabilitation, which we'd like you to vote on, too, and more than they've done. And besides, that rehabilitation policy was very important and it's already given its fruits to precisely that: to rehabilitate and not give up, and because the locks were excessive and because it was excessive and complicated a processing and because we went along the way of simplification but never to let it go or just not let it do anything. And speaking of that, and thanks to that, we have a community like ours that makes history in the number of integral rehabilitation areas in the municipalities. And by setting an example, in the last call, by talking about those few that you say, in 2019, aid was granted to 82 families, amounting to EUR 633,000, being the province of Lugo most benefited, with 33 families, EUR 217,000; followed by that of Ourense, who were 26 benefited families; Pontevedra the following; and, lastly, that of the Coruña, with 11 families. But that's not all. We also have the ARI of the Atlantic National Park and we have planned this month, in February, to withdraw help for 1.5 million euros for rehabilitation policies. And we want to continue to add, and continue to add 34 million euros to housing policies this year 2020, and that is 11% more than last year. And you were focused on the order of help for under 35 years of age to buy their homes in municipalities of less than twenty-five thousand inhabitants or in historic helmets. You have to finish reading, because it makes it expandable. And why do we do it like that? We do this for better administrative management. It went out this week, yesterday, the help for Thursday; it went out on Monday the rental bonus, to give the possibility to those families with low resources to have the opportunity, and the budget for each family because it is between 225 euros and 175 euros, it goes out for a million euros, and soon they will say: oh!, and how about a million euros? It is that we have already committed five million euros, because we give them the possibility of having rent vouchers up to six years, and that is to give them stability while these families do not come out of a situation that sometimes becomes complicated. And tomorrow too, because I have to forward the help to rent promoters, including the line for older people as well as for people with disabilities; it comes out for an amount of EUR 2.9 million; and we also give the opportunity to the municipalities that they can exercise as promoters. Having said this, and making the relevant budgetary effort, I have to thank all the staff working in Vivenda and the inspectors, as well as the different administrations, for the collaboration that this information and these resources will reach all the Greeks and the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u251	Thank you, Counselor. Da Eva Solla Fernández's interview with G.P. Left Joint Group on rules for games and bets in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u252	To formulate the inquiry, you have the floor to Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u253	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Mr. Rueda. We bring this issue here today, very concerned because, in the light of the progress of legislation, you still do not bring this bill to this chamber and, if so, that bill to regulate our country's games and bets. In our case, as you know, we have been concerned since the beginning of the legislation on this issue, and in particular, as it is known and public, in this Chamber this very legislation in the last session period we advocate a proposal for a law aimed at curbing this progress, which is producing a situation of genuine health epidemic, a situation that in our country is very worrying about the content of the data offered by associations and groups working with ludopaths and exludopaths. And we've moved him back to that point: a quarter of children between 12 and 17 years of age bet on Galicia. And they do it, in addition, in a way that's probably not the most expected. It is true that the online bets have increased, but the biggest, the bulk of the bets that minors make in our country is still present. So we have an important challenge, a very serious public health problem: 10,000 children are trapped in the game in Galicia, and numbers are growing. This situation deserves to be dealt with and this situation, as we have already said on other occasions, is the result of an autonomous policy to promote the implementation of the game in our country. You yourself enabled in 2016 the increase in the number of betting machines licenses, going from two thousand to three thousand six hundred, but the reality is that during practically what the three governments of Nuñez Feijóo have been doing is facilitating the continued deployment of this expansion, from the scope of the game. As you know — and if you don't know, I inform you here — we have asked from our group all the proceedings of the Committee on the Game, from its constitution, that I have the truth that I read carefully — we have them here — and I think they are quite relevant conclusions. [[Mrs. Solla Fernández shows a document.]] It is true that for quite a long time you and the governments since the 1980s have not held this commission on many occasions, but I also think it is striking — and it must be remembered here — that it was precisely their governments — and it is in the minutes — that favored this implementation of the game. I'm going to read just a few examples not to extend myself to this issue. We have acts of 2011 in which the Director General of Emergency and Internal Affairs, Mr Villanueva, who you keep in charge, transfers that rules are being approved, amendments, via Accompanying Law, articles that are changes — quote: "instigated by the gambling sector"; articles 5 of advertising; 17, you give machines; article 2 of the definition of the game and of the online channels. We have other elements within the minutes in which, in fact, the Director-General says, if he is defending the sector by providing the right mechanisms, this is proof of the amendments to Articles 5 and 17, the recent amendment to the Bingo Regulation, with the introduction of the use of data. That is to say, throughout all the minutes Mr Villanueva affirms and maintains that the current legislation is changing according to what the gambling sector is demanding. This was your policy in the last legislates, Mr. Rueda, and these muds come in these poles. Another example are recent acts of this commission in which it is said again that the director himself makes special emphasis on the need to install auxiliary gambling machines at the hostel sites; we are already talking about the emergence of sports betting machines. We have a lot of examples — the minutes give to read enough — of the ease given to the whole sector; even in the case of the last minutes all the demands of the sector to include them in that bill of play, something that we have already moved to when we brought here our bill. It was the gambling sector itself that informed us by the honourable Members of this chamber that you were working on a rule that would precisely facilitate the implementation of the game. I repeat: 10,000 children hooked up in Galicia. When we brought our bill to this chamber, by the way, much better... we got that data from the associations. [[Murmurs.]] You're not in the debate, but, as there will be a motion at the next plenary session, we'll have a chance to argue with you again. Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u254	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u255	Well, he didn't talk to me, but he's got the habit of talking too loud and I'm listening to her from here. Okay. [[Murmurs.]] May I continue? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It is a very serious issue, and when we brought our bill here, about which you and the rest of the parliamentary groups could obviously disagree with its content — I must remember that it was the only one who entered this chamber throughout the legislature — because you voted against, your group voted against, moving that you would enter the debate on that bill that you were going to register. I must remind you that, after you make it easier for yourself to implement betting houses, to increase the number of licences, to avoid the threat to public health that this problem basically involves youth, but that of course affects the whole family and the whole population, what happened was that you, alarmed precisely before social mobilization, announced, by decree, that they would paralyze the licensing until they had this draft, because the preliminary draft seems to be no longer how it was registered. That decree seems to have lasted for nine months, nine months that have already passed, Mr. Rueda, and nine months in which, of course, they have done nothing to improve the situation — by the way, there is a non-law proposal approved by this chamber in 2018 unanimously from all groups that urged urgent action as long as there was no new regulation, a new regulation, a new law — and no urgent action was taken. I'm talking about access. It was quite specific in relation to slot machines by minors. And I'm talking about the essentially use of identity documents when you can access and other control elements, which you didn't meet. But -- I mean -- you issued that decree in which, to seem like they were doing things, they said they were going to paralyze the licensing. However, Mr. Rueda, the current situation is that in recent months some betting houses, whose opening tried to stop the municipalities, were reopened because they had the autonomic license, which they had not previously submitted. And I'm talking — because, in addition, it's public — about cases like in the city of Coruña. We're worried that when you announce something, the direct consequence is different. But I say more: there's a much worse element than this one. While you were telling us that you wanted to protect public health, while Mr. Villanueva himself said in all the minutes — they are here — that he assumed all the demands of the game, including all the necessary changes, such as regulatory changes, while that happened, you were expanding the opening time of the betting houses in full Christmas half an hour; of course: it may not be significant, but we are saying that we have to work precisely on the contrary and you are expanding the opening time of the betting houses, making it easier for people to continue and when normal and what is said here is that we are working precisely on the contrary. [[Mrs. Solla Fernández shows a document.]] And we're worried, because you voted against our bill, saying that you were going to bring a much better project -- we doubt it -- into content, but we'll see it, and we'll work it out. What we're worried about is that we're going to finish the legislation -- we don't know when, but we're going to be a few months from the end of the legislation -- that project didn't come in and it doesn't have any plans to do it, because before it's finished what the decree collected in relation to the licenses, this month you've had to modify, through the Law on Administrative Tax Measures, again, that decree; that is to say, they've expanded because they haven't prepared the bill to enter the House. And, honestly, we're worried, because you're doing this is continuing to expand the conditions for the expansion of the game rather than the opposite. We were promised a text in this chamber, voting against ours — better or worse, but the only thing that entered this chamber — and the reality is that, in two months, five months, three months — we don't know — that this legislation ends and that the Persian descends another legislature, you didn't bring the bill here. And if that doesn't happen now, what's going to happen is that it won't take time to process it. You know that as well as I do. Reiterate: we have a very serious public health problem, and today we wanted to bring it back here, because it actually coincides with what would end this decree that you have expanded through the Law of Half Tax and Administrative and because it seems alarming to us that, rather than taking steps to curb expansion, even above you make it easier to expand the schedule of betting houses. I'm done with moving these questions; you have them in writing. We would like to know when, if they are going to do so, they will enter that rule and what measures they will take, because the reality is that they are — they seem to be — taking the opposite half.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u256	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. We greet the 4th ESO students at the Isle of Ons Institute and their teachers and their companions. Welcome to Parliament, you also welcome to Parliament. We continue with the response of the Vice President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u257	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I also welcome the students, because we are also dealing with a subject — which is the only thing I can sincerely agree with Mrs Solla about everything she has said — that affects them and can affect them much more directly. From there, Mrs. Solla, of course, comes here and the first thing she says is that, despite the fact that the online game may pose some danger for the purposes of promoting ludopathies, which is really dangerous is the face-to-face game. No, no, they're both dangerous, and much more so as experts say, by the way, experts that you quote tangentically. I suppose we referred to the same report, which said that of 10,000 minors interviewed 25% recognized that they had ever played. You turn them directly into ludopaths to say that this ludopathy is also directly caused by the Galician Union, of which it says, moreover, that we do everything possible to favor the sector and therefore promote the ludopathies. Listen, the sector says that the Galician Union, with the policy it's following, is strangling the sector, strangling the game; they're contrasting postures; and I think they're right or at least they might have a little more reason; it's not strangling the game, but if you put measures in front of a real problem -- what the sector says, not what you say -- probably because you know a lot more what the Galician Union is doing to regulate an activity that is actually not a normal activity or much less. It's not just an economic activity, it's an activity that affects the social environment, the health system, everything that has to do with ludopathies, and it has a lot of consequences. We have to talk, when we talk about the game, about self-control, we have to talk about a lot of things, and that's what we're talking about in Galicia. So, actually, we're making a law, the law is very advanced, and I think we're being quite transparent in everything we're doing; that's why you have that data. Tell me, if I don't know, you tell me. How am I not going to know that you've asked for the game papers? Of course! I was the first one I said: go on. On the other hand, it's our obligation, we're going to do it, but before all the information is gathered and you have to understand where all the evolution of public gambling policies comes from in Galicia, which comes from far beyond this government, which we've been doing for a few years -- as you knew, you've only read the last part of the minutes; this comes from a lot longer, and in the replica I'll try to explain to you some things that you don't know or that happened to you when you read the papers or, if you read them, you didn't want to say them here -- and I'm not surprised you didn't want to say them -- about the facilitation of possible behaviors that lead to the ludopathy. But how do you say we don't do anything if we were the first autonomous community to decide, by decree, that, in fact, while the law is being processed — which is going to be extended — will no longer be opened in Galicia, at least on what this government depends, while this government is now, neither a room nor one more establishment, of course, and all the slot machines — as you would call them — that are in hostage establishments, both those of sports betting and traditional ones, as they go down, will not be replaced by others and that licence is lost? I think we're doing more than other autonomous communities are doing. And, of course, we were the first, then they came all the other autonomous communities and said, what a good idea they had in Galicia, hey!, they dared to do that, maybe elsewhere they didn't want to do it for what it was. We were the first to say that no more betting shops are open, we were the first to say it. So, whether you're coming to me to say these things or not to know the reality or to want to twist it into a speech here, in a parliamentary interpellation, which I don't know if it's okay or wrong but, of course, it takes little time to have some effectiveness, in reaching some consensus on something we should agree on. [[Applause]] Look, we're doing our homework. It's not easy to make this law, it's nothing simple, it shouldn't be so much when the state takes so long. Now you say that right away. I wish we could agree with the state, too, because there are many shared competences here, and the problem, I don't know if the real problem, but a very important part of the ludopathies, especially among young people, is all that has to do with the online game, which is the most difficult to control. So let's start working fast on it, because here we can do a lot of things, but we won't be able to do everything. I'm waiting for that collaboration. Minister Garzón said that in two or three weeks he would call autonomous communities; we're already going for the third week and we weren't called. I understand it's a talk, but I hope you call us as soon as possible. And I think it comes at the right time, and I think it's even good to be with the law still in processing, even if it's already in its final phase, to be able to accompany certain public policies that have to be coordinated and have to be accompanied — the powers of the state and ours — in the field of play. What does it matter to us? First, that prohibition — to understand us — is that no more gambling establishments are opened. To set up new mechanisms, which do not exist right now, in order to activate machines in hostage establishments, similar to those that are done with tobacco machines — that's also provided for by law — for many types of machines, so that they must also be activated, as a prevention mechanism more so that minors can't play. Also, to establish access controls; right now, as you know, in all playrooms there are no access controls, and you will have to have them once the law is in force. We'll regulate a lot better records of prohibitions so that they won't even be able to quit and increase sanctions, if it was a person who was registered in these records, when playing the machines. We're going to do a lot more prevention campaigns, and of course we're also going to make a lot more restrictions on advertising about the game. You know that we agree that in the public media, on radio and on public television in the Autonomous Community of Galicia, the law regulates itself — that we also announce — that we cannot advertise, but you know perfectly well that the real problem of advertising and advertising — sometimes very dangerous advertising, which is very appealing to people with what is done, what is used — is what is done in the national media, that we cannot control ourselves; that corresponds to the Government of Mr Sánchez — and in many previous years, but it is that it is worse; and now it is necessary to act quickly, and that you know that it is a competition at national level; that it is a ban on advertising, but we cannot do it. What else, in my time? I also want to talk about prevention. You know we just increased the distances from 150 to 300. You know we're going to measure them in a radial way. All those things have to be done. Another thing is the ability of the municipalities to establish further measures, based on urban matters, which restrict — they also have surplus fields — even more than they can open the institutions. We're going as far as we can, but we can't get out of there. You yourself recognize that there are municipalities that say that they might not want to authorize that opening but that, with the rules in hand, and not only autonomic regulations, they can't do it. Don't tell me there's, after we've ordered the suspension of new licenses, not one more request. There's one in the municipality of Ribadeo, which then appeared and, of course, refused; others were in the process. We meet the regulations that touch us and the municipalities will have to do their own. And they can be opened if they're in accordance with the previous regulations; and if they don't, they can't. But it's not the responsibility of the Galician Union, it was the Galician Union that said that from that moment on they couldn't open any more. If they hadn't said this, they would continue to open up, as if they were doing in other autonomous communities, which did not limit what the Autonomous Community of Galicia did and continue to authorize new openings, by the way, with ratios, in relation to the population, much higher than we have, and also with distances much lower than when we restrict that new establishments are opened that are more or less close. We will also establish in the law that 25% of the revenues derived from sanctions are devoted to an end that we can all understand and share — I hope this shares and is safe to understand — which is ludopathy associations and prevention programmes with regard to ludopathy. This is what the bill does. The Galician Union was the first administration—after they made other administrations and other autonomous communities—which devoted money through collaboration and coordination agreements with associations that fight against ludopathy, and for the rehabilitation of the ludopaths—Agalure, Agaja, all those entities who devote themselves to these tasks—that every time — it is true — they have more work unfortunately. The Health Council also has a lot to say about everything that has to do with addictions, and there's a lot of ludopathies-related addiction. He granted one hundred and sixty thousand euros in 2018 — I don't have the 2019 data yet, but I'm sure they're not smaller — for associations dedicated to fighting this type of ludopathies. There are twenty-one assistance units in Galicia; it was, from 2015 to 2018, a thousand four hundred people included in the attendance circuit for additive disorders related to ludopathy. Many things continue to be done, Mrs Solla, and we must continue to do them, and of course, that the law is the system of closure, all that is put in a law, if the law is well done, it must be much more effective and, above all, avoid legal insecurity and allow to act with energy and determination when conduct prohibited by this law is produced. So we're in the final phase of a long time, a complex process. We are at the moment — and now in the Spanish Government it is said that a ministry will be done, the minister himself said, with a main competence that has to do with ludopathies — to coordinate us. So let's join together, come at the same time and meet our goal. It's true that it's a very worrying problem, it's true that we have to do everything possible and it's true that Galicia is doing things that elsewhere are still to be done and we are pioneers, and I'm glad of this being especially pioneers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u258	Thank you very much, Vice President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice. For the replica shift, you have the floor to Mrs. Solla Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u259	Thank you, President. Mr. Wheel, I don't know if you didn't hear me well or didn't understand me; it's possible. I told you not that it wasn't irrelevant, but that the data is on the table: there's 25 percent of minors playing betting, and that's a problem. 9% do it on line, i.e. the rest is presentable. Power of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. That's why we put forward a bill, and we did it with many of the contents that you named here. I mean, I welcome this concern about the game and the health of minors in our country, welcome, Mr. Rueda, because what you've done so far was the opposite, and I've already told you on one occasion: you've expanded the number of licenses to facilitate the implementation of the gambling sector. And you said three years ago that if the game was good, Galicia was good. So I'm glad you changed your mind and understood the public health problem we have. Of course, the minister, Mr. Alberto Garzón, has to call you and there is a responsibility for the ministry, primarily with regard to online bets. But, Mr. Rueda, let's not flout Galicia's powers. We defend self-government, you have advertising competences, of course — some are shared and some are not — and of course, about regulating the game. So much so that we have an autonomous law, which is absolutely obsolete and which is why we tabled a bill in this chamber. What you can't vote against is the bill, to say that an alternative text will be brought and that you won't enter the House in law. Of course it's good to coordinate with the ministry, but that can't be the excuse. You were four years old in this legislation to present that bill and you didn't. I'm glad you're recasting the preliminary draft, because it was absolutely disastrous -- I'm telling you -- and we've discussed it here on previous occasions. He didn't protect, he didn't regulate, and the distances you're putting between the betting houses and between the educational centers are scarce, Mr. Rueda; 300 meters is little; and we have to see the play deeds, in which, yes, there are many more things; already in the 1980s we were talking about 300 meters. So logically, legislation has to go further and go ahead of society. It's the families themselves who are telling them that we can't have betting houses next to schools, but not just schools, but parks, recreational places, health centers, ludopath associations. That all has to go into the law, that was within the bill of the Joint Left Group. You've already voted against and have no choice. And I'd like you to explain it to me, because you didn't do it in the previous intervention, because in the middle of the game epidemic you increase the opening hours of betting houses in the middle of Christmas. Instead of restricting, which is what they have to do, what they're doing is increasing. I refer to the data, I can't invent anything. I insist: You, with yourself in the vice-presidentship, have increased the number of licences all these years. Let me give you an example of what happens to the decree because it's evidence that you have no eyes to bring the law. If you had to extend the term of decree, through the Law of Tax and Administrative Measures, it's because you didn't give them time to make the bill at that time, which is when those nine months were finished. That's a reality. We don't know when the autonomous elections are going to be, but assuming that in July this camera will end its activity, if that bill doesn't come in, we won't even have a chance to discuss it in a presentation. And we cannot continue in this situation. I think you've exercised it in a superb way by voting against our bill, which could be better or worse — of course we don't have to agree — but it allowed the possibility of going to debate it in a presentation and that all groups would move their proposals. Now we've got it? Nothing. There's no regulation on the table, and there's no face to give us time to have a calm debate on the different opposition groups to discuss an element that is so serious and so important. Some of the elements you said here -- I don't know if they're the modifications to the project -- were included, and we're glad that they're modifying and including things they weren't. Because I insist: the pre-project did not contain a ban on advertising; it did not control access to machines; alcohol is not banned in betting houses — it has already finished — it was important; it was not marked enough distance, they have to include not only schools, there are many more things that have to be away from gambling places; no licenses granted, there is no retroactivity, so we have a problem that can stay vigilant...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u260	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u261	...very long in time. Mr. Wheel, we're talking about a serious matter. We wanted to bring this here today. I'm sure it's going to be a good regulation from the ministry, but we're also interested in the skills we have from Galicia and the capacity we have to limit this public health epidemic.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u262	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Mr. Rueda Valenzuela has the floor of the Vice-President and Counsellor, Public Administration and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u263	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Solla, you disagreed yourself: it speaks of a quiet debate and comes out here in the first intervention and in the second saying that we have no interest in limiting ludopathies, that we are regulating everything you have to do in the game field to favor the game sector; less bad than the game sector itself says we are strangulating it. So the rest to try to get to some kind of outcome that suits the Galician Union also goes by that measure, because you understand that our intention is to succeed, that our intention is to do it well. When I say that -- actually I said it, and more than once, and I repeat it again -- for me that the gambling sector is good and that it works well for Galicia doesn't mean that I make a lot of money. Otherwise, we wouldn't be putting on the law and taking the measures we're doing, we wouldn't have limited the opening of new rooms. What do you think? What did you like about the sector? For me that the gambling sector is good for you to be in a frame, but without criminalizing it, because I don't want to criminalize it either — if you want to do so —; what you have to do is understand that it's not, as I told you in the first part of my intervention, a normal sector, it's not just an economic sector, it's not just an economic sector, it's a sector that has to be regulated and strongly regulated, which is exactly what we're doing. You tell me we have to bring the law now, as soon as possible, and that it will end the legislation and the law is not approved. Look, if Mr. Garzón calls me — you say yes, to see if it's true, he himself has set a very short deadline — if he wants, the day he calls me, of course, I'll explain what we're doing from Galicia, and if he asks me to coordinate, if he asks me to accompany, if he asks me to go by hand, what I have to say is that I'm very sorry, but that I have his indication to pass the law already, just before, immediately, without thinking about what the state is doing, without coordinating us, without being effective, without adding any force. Of course, we're not going to do that. We follow our steps. Tell me that in the preliminary draft there were many things you didn't like and that less bad they were getting better. Look, in a process of law, at least what we do -- you never had a chance to do anything, and at this step, with this philosophy, I doubt that you have it -- you will understand that the laws are made, precisely, and you get to know and use transparency, so that everyone can make contributions and improvements. If you think that the text you make from the beginning is the text that you have to go to the end and that all those meetings that you would convene — from what we have called you were not — I am a mere paripé, you must not listen to anyone because nobody is right, because then you will make texts that are very different from what we do from this government, that we collect, after meeting with the associations of ludopaths, after meeting with the parent associations, after listening to experts, after listening to the sector, after listening to Fegamp, many allegations and still remaining, because these are missing reports. It's a complex text and it has a slow processing as well, I'd like it wasn't so slow, but we want to hit it, and while things are going on. And to prevent these things from delaying the effects we're looking for, because that's exactly why we said that no more gaming rooms could be opened. Of course, now, we've changed schedules, we've increased half an hour longer. Ah! but it's just that I heard Minister Garzón say that what he's going to do is open them from an hour away but without saying whether they're going to -- they say yes, they're already saying it by the sector -- shut down later; for I don't know if that's a good measure; maybe it'll take half an hour longer but then increase the time after night much more that's questionable; now don't tell me that you're absolutely indisputable that staying half an hour longer is something that's going to encourage ludopathy but instead say that opens later but that they also close much later that doesn't have any effect. Everything can be spoken. That's why I want to talk to the minister, so I want all these things done and that's why I want to succeed. I'm going back to the minutes, which we gave you without any problem — and delighted — until you know what happened. Do you know that at the time of the Bipartite, it was said that all the proceedings — I had the opportunity to say here in some intervention — would this sector be able to develop more quickly, without so many bureaucratic obstacles, all its activity, i.e., that machines could be installed, that more playrooms could be opened? That didn't happen to us, it was already done when we arrived, we had to do the opposite, that is, we can't open anymore, we got here, and then others imitated. So we're going to give each one his or her and tell each one what he or she has done. Of course, if you want to twist, and you keep turning the boys you once played, who recognize that you once played, directly in ludopaths, you're going to be wrong and you won't solve any problems, it's going to be grandifying, it's going to be doing demagogy and you won't be realizing or you won't put the focus on where we can actually have a problem and we can have it much bigger. But if he handles the figures in a way that doesn't handle the experts who do these studies, I'm saying he's wrong. Just like I think you've been wrong and wrong now when you put me in the face of voting against that bill. You voted against before, it was the only group that voted against a proposal in which the Government of the United States was urged to begin drafting the bill, which was what we did. You said no, they didn't want us to do that project, and now I'm in a hurry to do it as soon as possible. A little coherence, Mrs Solla. Sometimes there is nothing wrong with voting in favour of a People's Group proposal, when that proposal is actually looking for what you say you should look for.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u264	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u265	So a little coherence in that too. I'm done, Mr. President. Therefore, Mrs. Solla, I appeal again to consensus in such a fundamental matter. If we start thinking, as in other things, that you also do — if you shouldn't — in very sensitive matters, that this is about a political struggle and nothing else, and that you know all that needs to be done and that we have no idea what we're doing, and that we're favoring the game sector, you're wrong. With this kind of comment, who favors the gambling sector — which I insist I don't want to criminalize but I don't want to do so — it's you. It doesn't contain with us for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u266	Thank you very much, Counselor. We move on to the next item on the agenda, which is questions to the Government. Question by D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, from G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the assessment made by the Government of the content of the Court of Auditors review report on delays in the execution of the AVE to Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u267	To put the question, Mr. Álvarez Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u268	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor. In past days, the Court of Auditors published a report on the irregularities detected in the paralysis of the works of the AVE between 2014 and 2017. That report speaks of the paralysis that affected different high-speed lines, among them the Galician, and in which there were eighteen contracts that were the object of some paralysis between the years 2014 and 2017; years in which, by the way, Ms. Ana Pastor was Minister of Development. Part of these works began to be unblocked when they arrived at the Íñigo de la Serna Ministry and, as a result of these delays, these paralysiss, the completion of the work of the AVE until December 2020, two years after the scheduled start date, which was 2018, was delayed. At that moment, with the agreement of the German Government, we had that new stage. These suspensions were in line with various cases, which motivated, firstly, that the level of execution — and I speak of the Court of Auditors' report — did not reach half — 49.2% in particular of what was planned to invest, and caused a number of delays that still drag the works, which, of course, gave so much political revenue to the Council of Galicia. But the most important thing is that the Court of Auditors finds different irregularities in any of the eleven records it has examined. For example, on the left track between Vilarino and Campobecerros, complementary works were approved due to problems detected in tunnels, which should be processed as a modified project. In December 2016 the total suspension of works was agreed upon when you executed 100% of the amount of adjudication. And this was due to a new project modification. In other cases, such as the project of the Ourense variant between Seixalbo and the station, the Court of Auditors detects a lack of coordination between the administrations involved. Page 47 of the report: "On 31 December 2016, the third total suspension was agreed when 95.8 of the €2,361 million of the amount of the current budget was implemented. This suspension resulted in the construction work of the Seixalbo-tunel sections of Montealegre, and the tunnel of Montealegre-Station of Ourense had the provisional approval, and in order to obtain the final approval it was necessary the favourable report of the Culture Council of the Galician Union...", which in March 2019 was not yet available. I repeat, page 47 of the report. Two years later they were still uninformed. At that moment, Feijóo, chitón; Vázquez Mourelle, chitón. And the situation is that right now you're getting an impressive income from those delays that you've caused. Counsellor, what evaluation do you make of this report? Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u269	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u270	Thank you, President. Your Honor, did you ask Madrid for permission to ask this question about AVE to Galicia, which is State competence? Because it bothers you very much when we talk about infrastructures that are within the jurisdiction of the State, and it seems that you have to ask permission to Madrid to talk about matters of State competence here in Galicia. [[Applause]] I certainly don't envy him for the role he has to play today, and he's actually trying to cover up those shames of the Socialist Party in the matter of stroke. He just said "December 2020." I don't know if it was a lapse, because if it wasn't, it would be quite a bit of news what you just said in December 2020, which perhaps comes from that Court of Auditors report. You are blocking the null interest of the Government of Spain in infrastructure in Galicia. Of course you do! I don't envy you at all what role you have to play today. Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u271	Mrs. Vilan and Mr. Torrado, silence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u272	What you're saying about the Court of Auditors is already known; you're talking to me about 2017 issues that minister Iñigo de la Serna has already, with transparency...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u273	Sorry! Mr. Torado, I call you by order. Why? As far as he's concerned, and as far as he's concerned. Well... and for the gestures he does towards the presidency when... yes, yes, yes! He knows what it is, and I'm not going to repeat it to him. Yeah, silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, yes, yes. Totally. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u274	Thank you. Public opinion has known since 2017 the 17 high-speed truces in Galicia that are paralysed. Because it was Iñigo de la Serna who came here to explain, because he came every three months to explain and report high-speed accounts to Galicia; therefore, it is a matter that public opinion already knows, and already knew it also the president of ADIF. The president of ADIF himself, who defends those suspensions. I invite you to read the small letter too, Mr. "ADIF claims that the suspensions decreed between 2014 and 2017 were coming." This was written by the current president of ADIF. So it has already been challenged by the Socialist Party of Spain. You don't trust the current ADIF president? That person, that engineer who's in the idea lab, lack of ideas, that's why this Socialist Party lab is needed. The president of ADIF, the Socialist Party itself, is therefore answering; he has already answered his question. The only thing you're patenting is the lack of interest of the Government of Spain in infrastructure. I think it's more useful for you to avoid that blindfolding curtain. Because, look, the Socialist Party has as many high-speed versions of Galicia as of the meeting of Mr. Abalos with the vice president of Maduro, as many versions of the AVE to Galicia. [[Laughter]] The most useful thing is to tell the truth. [[Applause]] The most useful thing is that they don't hide information from us: certainty, the truth, the AVE and the IVE, that's what we ask, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u275	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Álvarez Martínez has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u276	Thank you very much, Mr. President. And thank you very much for your non-response, Counselor. This is just like if I, as a math teacher, ask you, "Basic properties of logarithms?" And you say, "three for one three, three for two six, three for three nine..." and so on. [[Laughter]] I mean, I ask you about one thing and you answer with another because you know it. Of course! This is the reality of your answer, unfortunately. The IVE, the infrastructure, the Abalos visit to Barajas airport... do you really think this is serious, and that is a responsible and moderately respectful way to respond to a Member or a Member in the Galician Parliament? Do you think this is admissible, that I ask you for a question...? [[Applause]] That, by the way, Counselor, I bring no press clippings; I bring extracts from the report. Because I read the report, I don't read the papers. No, no, no! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The reality is like that. Look, Counsellor, when it was enough for Iñigo de la Serna to turn to this beautiful autonomous community every three months — which has been four times a year, except for a mistake in the lamentable division on my part — it was enough. Now you, who have enthusiastically joined in the rage of writing letters — that epistoll of what you have been doing lately — write to the Ministry of Development to carry out a monthly follow-up on the works of the AVE. Do you really consider that, after a report is black on white -- or some pages in color, of course; but generally, black on white -- that you — not you, but the Government of Spain — are responsible for more than three years' delay in the works, are you here to talk to me about the problem of the IVE? Is there really no better argument? Because look, Counselor: Black on white; the underlined green is mine. [[Shows a sheet.]] On the current high-speed contracts to Galicia: there are 1,075 million adjudications.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u277	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u278	...in suspended files. Madam Counsellor, for the last time, and I pray earnestly: how do you value this report?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u279	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez. For the Government's reply, Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u280	Thank you, President. You know perfectly well that I respect you, and, in any case, I have come to respond to these violations of the Socialist Party Government in Madrid. I don't know if you're coming today as a spokesman for the Socialist Party or as a spokesman for the minister. I don't know how you come today. The question you've been asking me is more than answered for some time now, even if you don't want to recognize it. That question is already answered, because it was already known by public opinion for a long time and by the relevant explanations. Therefore, it is well known all that you bring me here. And don't take us for fools; don't take me for fools, either. So these are issues that were already more than known; so we don't want to get a goal through the back door. You don't want to paste things that aren't in the back door. Because there are the evidence: the reports of the Galician technicians, the reports to the European Commission. The ground, step on the ground, I invite you; we have to go together to the AVE of Galicia. I'll give you a shower from mine and we'll see the works of the AVE in Galicia. Clear evidence that they're not telling the truth! I insist again: as many versions of the AVE as Galicia has the Socialist Party as the meetings with the Vice President of Maduro. Of course you do! Because we have to show these differences of criterion every two by three. Because there he is! I, respecting the president of ADIF... because he told us this on November 7th! He told us this: "The AVE is going in time — in November — that the deadline is December 2019 — unless it gives me a notice today in December 2020— it goes in time and the debate is over.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh This, in November 2019, and the deadline was December 2019, and we are in February 2020. So, what do you want me to say? Then we have the European Union already said 2022, then we have the minister, who says AVE in 2022, then we have Brussels insisting in 2022, and then we still see that 2023. So who do you want to cheat on with all those versions? Of course, I insist: we request the file sent to the European Commission, to ADIF, for knowledge. I see you have knowledge of many official papers. Why don't they answer us? What do you want to hide? Send us the dossier sent to the European Commission, through transparency, through collaboration between administrations! Why don't you send it to us? We've been asking for it for some time; send it to us. By the way, Mr. Losada's frenetic rhythm is the rhythm of the turtle; he has to think more about track placement ratios. But in any case, we ask for and request monthly meetings with the Ministry of Development, and that bilateral commission, as in other autonomous communities, to set the date. That you don't answer me the same day for Rande's lights, that you answer me in real time for the commission of AVE to Galicia. That without delay put us a date for clear and true information, and tell the Greeks the truth about when the AVE arrives in Galicia. Because, Your Honor, I am, of course, puzzled when I am answered in fact from Rande's lights on the same day and I am not answered from Ourense's intermodal or from the bilateral commission of AVE to Galicia. Of course, I don't share that order of priorities. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u281	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by Mr Luís Villares Naveira and three other Members of the G. P. Mixto, on the reasons of the Galician Union not to listen to the citizens' demands regarding the construction project of the Ourense intermodal station
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u282	To put the question, Mr. Casal Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u283	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. Counsellor, I'm going to read to you a few headlines these weeks about the Ourense intermodal project: "The proposed project for the Ourense intermodal doesn't come up with solutions to unite the neighborhoods or manage traffic"; "The neighborhood, associations and even the College of Architects, for more than two years -- that is, it's not a matter of survival -- claim the worthy intermodal that Ourense deserves, and ensure that the chosen solution is a disaster." Ourense's future is at stake, we're in time to do things right with the intermodal. If we solve the intermodal wrong, Ourense will suffer the consequences for a hundred years. Neighborhood — I'm sure you know it — indicates that the current mix of the three different projects presented by you and by ADIF condemn the neighborhood to remain divided, and it will cause circular chaos around the station, also affecting the health centre. Neighborhood claims that it will return to the project initially planned, that it would place the roads north of the current station, freeing up space for the city and favoring mobility and connection between the neighborhoods. You, last week, denigrated this proposal saying it was just a model. But you're a model expert: last week President Feijóo presented a wonderful model — yes, infographic; it wasn't even volumetric — of the Coruña hospital. Is that gonna be a reality or is it just a model? Ourense has a great opportunity to transform this part of the city in a very important way, bringing together solutions that fit its current needs and what it will have in the next fifty-sixties. Counselor, you have a great responsibility to this, and you certainly know it. You can't, and you can't, pass this opportunity in no way. But you, too last week, replied that no one is so right — only you and the Government of Unity — and that the important thing is to finish the work in August this year anyway. Is it really so important to finish the work in August anyway, if, as you now said, do you not trust that August of this year 2020 the AVE is already in Ourense? So why is there so much hurry? Or is it precisely important to be able to make an opening and a few pictures in August, refusing to talk and negotiate with anyone? Finally, Counsellor, I hope you will answer me a little more clearly than you did last week, to know, really, what are the real reasons why you refuse to talk to ADIF, to the citizenry, to the specialists, to the railway technicians, to the College of Architects, to find a better solution. It's a project for at least 100 years. They take it seriously and don't think only about other kinds of interests, that they wouldn't really justify an irresponsible decision. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u284	Thank you very much, Mr. Casal. Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle has the floor to answer. Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u285	Thank you, President. Bring an urgent question that was already answered last week. I think I was clear. I'll try to be clear again. There's no more outraged intermodal than one that doesn't go through a model, and that original idea of Foster is there. But in any case, I'm telling you, all the models of hospitable works that this Government has introduced or are either done or running. The models were of the Socialist Party in 2011, those intermodals, and none came to any work. Those are the models that are only left in the models. [[Applause]] And the paper and the model holds it all, as I say again. And you're wrong when you try to shield yourself from this, because you're not getting on the side of Ourense neighbors, of course; because you're making them run out of intermodality, which is what they want. Of course, a city doesn't only thrive with models. That, I hope, will share it with me. The intermodal must be a guarantee of intermodality; if it is the same quota, much better for the guarantee of intermodality. There's an agreement signed between ADIF, the Ministry, the Council of Ourense and the Council of Galicia. And even more: this project, which is in works — because we are experts in works, not models; in doing the models works and reality — is unanimously approved by the Higher Commission of Urbanism. It's a superior organ — which already says the name — and a collectible organ, and I think we must also respect it. It is therefore a project approved unanimously — I repeat again — by the Higher Committee on Urbanism. I think it is respectable, at least, what it says and what it approves of the Higher Committee on Urbanism. We're talking about a new bus station integrated into the intermodal station, which is in works; it's not a model. In summer there will be the parking lot that needs so much of this district of the Bridge, of 300 squares, also running, buried — because the whole top of the surface will be a great square, which you forget — and therefore we fulfill with the city of Ourense with city projects such as the intermodal station, with transparency and with participation. And what you forget is the railway part. And the railway side is the competence of ADIF, whose plans we don't know, and we don't know anything about that indefinition that exists with the station on the railway side. We had no answer. We call for a meeting on January 27th and we have no answer. For other things if they answer my own fact. He'll bother someone to say it. But, look, for the intermodal terminal follow-up commission, for ADIF and the Ministry to answer only the railway side; because there is a lot of indefinition and many of the things you tell me are on the railway side. Don't be confused, I'm not from the Galician Union. We don't know the schedule. I ask you, just as I face the part of the Galician board, that the Ministry and the ADIF face the part of the intermodal that corresponds to them. And, of course, there's a multidisciplinary team working for the intermodal, and also for a new senior residence in Ourense. Because we have a project in Ourense, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u286	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Casal Vidal has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u287	Yes, at last, you first contradict yourself and you say there's a general agreement, that everything is confirmed, and then you say you don't know anything about the ADIF proposal. It's a little incoherent; if they already have an agreement closed they should know what the deal is, right? I'll tell you. And I don't know the project myself, but it seems obvious. On the other hand, you're the only argument that this is a model; but not a single argument to explain why that proposal is worse than what you're proposing. Actually, the proposals you make are what you do, and what you don't develop is not what you do, what you present them. And that was also the cause of the late years of the Coruña intermodal. Yes, that's the reality. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Either you do what you want to do or you don't. You're the only ones who know what to do. I don't doubt the technicians and the knowledge of the collaborators you have, but I don't doubt those of the College of Architects of Galicia, of the railway technicians, who make many allegations to this project. Indeed, the works are under way, but all the people — technicians, architects and engineers — who have manifested themselves have suggested that the project can be modified, probably with a little delay of three or four months. What does it matter if the intermodal ends in December? Perhaps the problem is that: that you have a commitment, not to make the best intermodal for Ourense, but to be able to take a picture with the candidate for the presidency of the Union in August. Maybe that's the problem and don't make the best project for Ourense for the next 100 years. It's irresponsible, Counselor. Think about it, listen to people and work participatively. [[Murmurs.]] He warned them that they should listen to people. Sometimes they don't have a choice. But this time, let's hope they don't have any more remedies either, because it's not a work for the coming year or for the next five years; it's a work for the future...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u288	Finish it, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u289	...of the city of Ourense. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u290	Thank you very much. For the Government's reply, you have the floor of Mrs Vázquez Mourelle's Infrastructure and Mobility Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u291	Thank you, Your Honor. I don't know if you know which members make up the Higher Committee on Urbanism, because it's the Official College of Architects of Galicia, who voted in favour. So, the High Urban Commission, a large number of college members of the College of Road Engineers, the College of Industrialists and also the Official College of Architects of Galicia, voting in favour, approved unanimously. I think that a little bit of attention on these matters too — as I say — is because we are talking about projects from the city in Ourense, not only from the intermodal station; also, of course, from the arrival of the AVE, and also, of course, from the new residence of older people. From the railway terminal—and you didn't understand me; I think what you want to understand, but in any case, I'll explain again—we know the project, of course!, but we have no timetable or forecasts. And if there's any clarification to be made, let me do it — just like I do when I'm asked for ours, and I'm here accounting in Parliament, and I'm counting on Ourense. On the side of the train terminal neither mu, and I've been waiting for days for them to put me on a date to talk about the train terminal. Because the truth is that many criticisms and many things that are said by those who manifest themselves are on the railway side of ADIF -- I don't know if you know it -- so it will be ADIF who answers, not me. Oh, okay! [[Mr. Casal Vidal pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Well, we've agreed on something, we've moved on today. I hope to be clear, and I was clear; therefore, we reached an agreement. [[Murmurs.]] Of course, I'm told that we're taking the done work out of the trash, and we can't throw the done work out of the trash, and who tells you that in four months? It's not true, the works have to be reality. I, when I see some plans that you manage to simplify a shore of avenues of arrival from AVE to Galicia with a strip but another line of labeling, I think it's an insult to engineering. I think things are more serious, because quotas are wet, pendants are what they are, and you have to save... I'm going back to say what I told your partner, the other Member, last week: buses don't fly, the pendants have to overcome them, and I understand that models are models, and the works have to be made real. Then the quotas must be saved. [[Murmurs.]] And if they want to violate the Accessibility Law, for example, we, of course, do not want and we want intermodals to be accessible to everyone. We have an important project in Ourense. I've already explained to her companion the radical improvement of the health center and, therefore, I think an image is more than a thousand words. The area is radically improving and, therefore, we are not going to give up this project that radically improves. I'm saying you're being compared to Mr. Sánchez's government so that you don't invest in Ourense. Don't make a comparison of the socialist government in Madrid so they can take the investments to the Mediterranean! We want investments in Galicia! Let the ministry respond, ADIF, on the railway side! [[Murmurs.]] We want a timetable and clarity on the railway side. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] On the side of the Galician board is explained and I'll explain it as often as I can. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u292	Thank you, Counselor. We are now debating in an accumulating manner a question by Mrs. Luca Chao and Mr. Rivas Cruz. Da Eva Solla Fernández, G.P. Common Left Group, about whether the German Government has studied some measures to prevent the loss of jobs in Emesa Question by José Luis Rivas Cruz and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on what measures does the Government intend to take regarding the situation of Emesa
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u293	For one thing, Mrs Chao's question has been formulated.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u294	Thank you, President. Mr. Conde, once again we see the obligation to bring to this chamber the concern of workers and workers for the situation they live in their businesses, which may suppose the loss of tens of jobs. In this case we speak of Emesa, a company that, as you know, is located in the municipality of Coirós, in the province of Coruña, currently dedicated to the constructions of metal and which has over its back a history of more than sixty years, which has made its work known and recognized throughout the world for its vital participation in works of great importance, such as the extension of the bridge of Rande, the T4 of Barajas or the intermodal of Liexa, among other examples. [[Metallic Elaborates]] He also played a decisive role in the industrialization of the entire province of Coruña, with important works in both Meirama and the Bridges as well as in the Coruña refinery. That is, we're talking about a company that has an important trajectory, with a lot of specialization of its workers and workers throughout the productive system; that's, from the engineering of the project until the project is delivered, which returns to high-quality employment. That's precisely why he came to give more than 300 people a few years ago. Unfortunately, the loss of jobs — as you know — has begun long ago, and there, Mr. Count, you have direct responsibility. They have direct responsibility because, as you know, we were talking about a company that was leading at the time in the production of wind industry, to the point of being the first manufacturers of wind infrastructure at the time. You came and crippled the wind development, both in the country and in the state. Here is the commitment of the People's Party, which is still known, to the environment, and here is also its commitment to the maintenance of quality jobs. At present, the company has eighty-four workers, who have been without charge since September -- imagine the situation -- and who are also about to enter a temporary employment regulation file. The workers and workers today told us, again, that they didn't understand how this situation could be achieved. Today we were again explained by the company's extensive billing and how the Galician Board, through the Igape, gave them a lot of help for a number of improvements that have never been made. Of course, the question is obvious: what did the Galician Board do, which did not supervise what the money they received was spent on? We're talking about a totally negligent management, because nothing has been monitored at all. But, now, we must look to the future. This is what they and they were asking us to ask: that we ask you, that we ask you directly what you are doing, that you are doing the Government of Galicia to secure these eighty-four jobs, to find an investor for the factory that guarantees the future of employment throughout the region, that the industry in this country will not continue to be dismantled. Because, Mr. Conde, we are facing one more case, and we hope that the solution is not the same as they always give from their advice, which is the silent answer. Because the response has led to twenty-two thousand five hundred destructions of industrial jobs in this country, twenty-two thousand five hundred jobs destroyed in the industry in this country in a decade, Mr. Conde. So we asked him: what are you going to do to prevent the destruction of more jobs in the area? What are they doing to keep Emesa from shutting her doors?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u295	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. Now you ask Mr. Rivas the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u296	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Emesa grew up from 58 till our days, and passed through different owners, arriving, as already said, to 300 workers and workers. Reconverted by the wind crisis, it came to be seventy. And four years ago she was sold to Soil Recovery Group. These last owners promised gold and moire; they were going to work for 200 people in four years. And so they bought for fifteen million, five in hand, and the rest for ten years, with a really cool trick. The trick consisted of Emesa's previous owners claim a five million loan to a bank and loan it to those who are going to buy Soil — i.e., to those who buy, to themselves, they lend — that pays the first purchase term with this loan. Will you follow me, Counselor? The contest administrator calls this "buy leveraged." More: with the money of Emesa — the old Emesa — and with the unpaid workers, loans were made to other companies in this new group. Isn't this prison? Business management over these four years has been — let us say — dark — so to speak gently. Yes, he received the relevant help from a number of public institutions. There are voices that claim this group is a voyeur background. Whether it had feathers or not, the neck peeled or not, the comments in the world of business and finance were clear: it fed the meat. Pelotazo! I know the help was to improve the factory, improvements and investments that have never been made. The contempt shown to the workers and their representatives was constant and continuing, and under these wonderful labour reforms with which the PP gave us — it speaks of agitating, resilient and strengthening the economy — these vultures forced the collapse of the collective agreement to enslave and domesticize their workers. And so, these, with their contractual rights, had to one-on-one denounce the company for their return. The climate has deteriorated and there have been judgments, and they have all been favorable to the workers, judgments that are not carried out by the company today. The well-founded suspicion is that the Soil Group, which owes 18 million, will tear down the company to get the maximum benefit of this operation. That is, in four years' bills more than thirty million, doesn't pay suppliers, receives four million euros of public aid, and now undresses it; and he's still going to get something more out of it, after he buys it with five million loans from the same ones that were bought! This is the uncontrolled capitalism of what you are the protective political arm and executioner, and who pray to the four winds as an immutable and perfect economic system. Counsellor, what are you doing and what are you planning to do to keep this business and the jobs threatened? Because -- I repeat -- this is a book ball. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u297	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u298	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The fact is that it is very difficult to establish a debate in this parliament when you want to bring the situation of companies. Actually, they just want to bring some of the reality -- they don't get informed, or they just don't want to transfer the whole reality of what's happening. What if I can move them, especially to the workers, is that the Galician Union will work; the Galician Union is next to it and will be up to it, and we will become involved with this company, precisely, so that it can maintain industrial activity and keep the job. We have already done so in 2016, when it was granted loans for EUR 1,080,000, and therefore we have already shown that this government is actually next to the industry and is next to the job. He knows the company committee, with which we have met on several occasions; also, the contest administrator, who is logically responsible for presenting a feasibility plan. And we, from the Government, are going to assume our responsibility, our roles in industry, not through opinions — which is what you come to move here — but through facts. We'll look for a solution that will guarantee the future of the company. And we, of course, will work to identify how, through the different instruments that have the Unity of Galicia, we can maintain this activity. We are doing this with Galicia's business financing plan on all projects that present a feasibility plan and also with proposals that are proposed that are within the legal framework. And we already have examples. It's easy to come here to make a partial account of the reality of a company, as they're doing today, but the workers know that the Galician Union is next to the industry and is next to the workers. The workers of Paquito know this: three million euros through a loan to refinance debt and ensure the continuity of activity in Boiro. Nor Rubber workers know this: three million euros. The workers of Fandicosta know this: we act precisely to maintain the activity by covering the needs of the circulator. The Copo workers of Clessa know this, with an investment of more than five and a half million euros. So there's a government coherence that works to find solutions. And, unfortunately, what is inconsistencies in the speech that you, both the Galician Nationalist Block and the Joint Left Group, bring to this parliament. Incoherence because, firstly — as always — they only care about part of Galician workers; it seems that there are once again first and second workers. I'm hoping that you will bring to this camera the situation of the workers of Alcoa-San Cibrao and bring the situation that the workers of the Bridges currently have, and that they will bring here the situation that the workers of the auxiliary industry have linked to the Bridges, and I hope that someday they will also bring the concern that they have eighty thousand families who depend on the activity they have in Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] And so I think that's really coherence...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u299	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u300	...that you must move.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u301	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u302	But look at Mrs. Chao's lack of information...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u303	Quiet. Mrs. Chao, be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u304	...who speaks in this chamber of the wind sector.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u305	Quiet, please. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please. [[Mr. Cal Ogon pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Cal, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u306	The Left Joint Group speaks in this chamber of the wind sector. But if you're not supporting him on any project in the wind sector in Galicia! But if this government is what it is allowing the reactivation with more than 480 megawatts in operation in 2019! You're trying to block the development of the wind sector, and you want to talk here about the industrial sector linked to the wind sector! But who do they want to fool? Or do you want us to talk about how you supported the Socialist Party, which put us in a tariff deficit of EUR 30 billion precisely because of a disorderly increase in renewable energy in 2010? I believe that, in wind sector lessons, no opposition group can give them to this government, especially if it is linked to industrial activity. But look, you talked about part of Emesa's reality, and you talked about part of Emesa's situation. By the way, Mrs Chao and Mr Rivas, the grants you speak of are granted by the Bipartite in 2007 — EUR 1,300,000 —. [[Murmurs.]] You'd probably have something to say while they were in government for the application of those subsidies. What this government did was provide a participatory loan in 2016, which allowed, at that very moment, that the company could reflect the situation of difficulty they had. And thanks to the help of the Galician Union — 2016 — this loan can be solved. What they don't mean here is that the creditor contest in which Emesa is based has a origin in the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party; that's not what they mean. And they don't mean that it was precisely an act of the June Tax Agency of 2018 and the inflexibility of the Tax Agency throughout the process that caused, with the requirement of an endorsement that was already covered by other companies, which led Emesa couldn't hire public administrations over the last two years. We're serious, if you like, about Emesa; we're serious about the future of Emesa...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u307	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u308	...and we're serious about industrial employment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u309	Thank you. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u310	But don't come here with lessons and don't come here with partial readings...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u311	Thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u312	...the situation that Emesa and her workers have. The workers don't deserve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u313	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u314	Mr. Count, once again you have lost the opportunity to give a concrete answer and to give some information to people who hope that they will have a specific project on the table ever since their advice. We'd like to hear what his proposals are for the future industrial future of the region; that said absolutely nothing at all. We told you, the workers' demand is clear: they're asking you to get involved in the search for a project of your own that guarantees the future of employment in the area, focusing, for example, on wind production. Because look, we, of course, are in favour of wind energy, as long as it returns to well-being for citizenship. What we're not in favour of is the cop for his friends, which is what the People's Party has used to us; that, of course, we're not in favour. And instead, you came here at the usual, showing your absolute disinterest and inability to solve some of the problems of this country's industry. His word is absolutely worthless, because those empty vaguities and promises we've heard about Vulcan, we've heard them talking about Isobar, we've heard them talking about Poligal. And the result was exactly the same: closures and layoffs, twenty-two thousand five hundred jobs in the industry destroyed in his government, Mr. Conde, twenty-two thousand five hundred jobs, one in every three of the industrial posts that were destroyed throughout the state. And of this you say absolutely nothing. The question is simple: what will they do to reverse this situation? Because look, the counselor up until now is you; if he's not able, leave the position he occupies; other people will come; we'll be able to put other people on the table. [[Murmurs.]] I told you before: we're in front of a company that has received millions of public aid, about which you should say something. What are you doing now? We say it clearly: the Greek Government has to really get involved looking for an investor; not ghost investors, like the one who said they had for Vulcan and never showed up. We want a clear investor. You must actively intervene to prevent the closure of the company, to secure the future of the industry and to open the door to hundreds of jobs that could be generated if Emesa remains open. He knows perfectly well that it's a fundamental issue for the county. You'll understand that the workers have a lot of concern...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u315	Thank you, Mrs. Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u316	...because your promises always end in the same...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u317	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u318	...in farewells and sufferings. It's not a funny question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u319	Thank you, your time is up. Thank you. Replica, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u320	Mr. Count, you're talking about us theorizing. We made him the only possible account: the one about the policeman. Some of the mobsters who enter, buy -- and you knew who they were and who they were -- they enter a company, they disguise it, they wake it up, they wake up and they extortion it to get as much performance as they could; and what they care less about are the workers. And you lend them loans and don't follow them. And this is the only reality, Mr. Conde. Because the bad thing is, you're the one who gives theoretical support to this committed mafia, really. You see, you didn't speak of that theory here, but Mr. Cividanes the other day, speaking of Isobar in commission, if you spoke of that theory, and told me textually, and before a more or less similar question, that the market alone balances the conflicts between companies and workers. So the question that comes out of here is that they paint -- I'd say a word -- what do you paint in the government, man? What do they paint if I'm not able to monitor and track public money; if I'm not able to swallow contracts and purchases and sales from companies to mobsters? If I can't do that job, what do they paint making a salary they don't make? It's just that this is the reality! [[Applause]] Look, the workers are what they don't care about. They urge them now, whether we're in pre-election or electoral period already; they urge them to make propaganda and to be well. Look, as far as Alcoa is concerned, this Member and some of my group have often stepped on asphalt in solidarity with them. And they didn't just step on asphalt. Not only did they step asphalt; they accompanied them to Madrid and they were where they were to be and we are where to be, always. Not you. You are the great absentee.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u321	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Closing shift of this question, economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u322	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Unfortunately, Mr. Rivas, Mrs. Chao, your demagogy, once again, will be of no use to the workers of Emesa. Emesa's workers know that this government is working, that logically will develop a job together with the contest administrator, who has to present that plan of viability. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And we'll also try to work to attract an investor and therefore there can be continuity in Emesa's industrial activity. That's our commitment, that's going to be our job, together with the workers and the contest administrator. And that you have no doubt the Emesa workers that we will work to identify what the solution is to give your project viability. The workers of Emesa know this, but they also know that the workers of Paquito, the workers of Nor Rubber, the workers of Fandicosta, the workers of Copo, the workers of Clessa, who unfortunately went through similar processes, and here there was a government with responsibility who was able to identify viable projects and that allowed all the workers of these companies to continue their activity. And that commitment is where we'll work with the Emesa workers to give that solution. Sorry! Mrs Chao and Mr Rivas: Bipartite loan in 2007, one million three hundred thousand euros. But how can you ask me for responsibilities of tracking and executing those grants if you have granted them? You were in the government. They hear: we, in 2016, when this company was going through a huge treasury difficulty, we identified that we could actually invest and that we could therefore help Emesa to continue her activity, and we gave her a participatory loan of a million and three hundred thousand euros. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And I'm going back to reality: in 2018, June, the Tax Agency opens an act, raises a record of Emesa, for the responsibilities of the old Isolux, and requires her to present an endorsement of four million euros, which had already been covered with the assets of another company. Keep that record open. It remains inflexible in negotiations for two years. Inflexible, straight, inflexible. And that record prevents Emesa from hiring other public administrations. It prevents them from contracting with other public administrations. They therefore limit the ability to contract and to develop that activity. That's the real source of the competitive situation that Emesa has. If you want to move another completely different reality, I'm sorry. This government will work with the contest administrator and the Emesa Business Committee to find a solution. Unfortunately, Emesa has seen herself inflexibility in the Tax Agency. And, I remind you, your government is the government that has proved inflexible with Emesa. And so surely you should talk to your colleagues in Madrid, go to the Congress of Deputies and ask the current Government to explain why the Tax Agency kept itself and remained inflexible with the situation of Emesa, when it had covered the risk of the endorsement it demanded, and kept the record up. Therefore, a little rigour, a little truthfulness and a little professionalism in your development as Members, because the workers do not deserve this ideological treatment that you want to bring on the situation of industry permanently. [[Applause]] You are, ladies and gentlemen, making a systematic attack on the Welsh industry. A systematic attack. Galicia doesn't deserve it, and workers certainly don't deserve it. You try to come here and identify who's good and who's bad. Gentlemen, there's only one problem here, and it's the Emesa workers, and that's whether we can work to give that solution. I see they're following me and I appreciate it. [[Murmurs.]] Mr Rivas, do you refer to the 2009 election campaign when the Bipartite has granted a hundred million euros that have been failed for the public administration, being precipitately and campaigned? Do you mean that you were in premeditating by granting loans that were failed because they were impermissible projects? [[Murmurs.]] Are you referring to Alfageme's thirty million euros? [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Do you refer to loans granted to T-Solar or Infinite Renewables? You mean that kind of loan? This government will not act with the irresponsibility of the Socialist Party and the Galician Nationalist Block, and that led to a loss of one hundred and thirty million euros of bankruptcies for irresponsible management. [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Chao, check the population survey data. The data is that 13,700 people in employment were those who increased in 2019 in industry. It was this sector, that of the industry, which generated the most jobs in 2019: 8% more than in 2018, while Spain grew to only 2%. Unfortunately, you are generating unemployment in Spain; your policies, from an energy point of view, are generating a problem in Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u323	Thank you, Counselor, thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u324	...and here is what is a responsible government that will be...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u325	Thanks, time's up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u326	...with the workers of Emesa. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u327	Thank you. Question by Maria Ángeles Antón Vilasánchez and seven other MPs from the G.P. Galician populace, about the evaluation of the results of the last PISA report for Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u328	Mrs. Antonio Vilasanchez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u329	Thank you, President. Counsellor, last December we were aware of the outcome of the PISA 2018 report, a report whose objective is the analysis of the different teaching models so that responsible authorities in the educational field can design educational policies that can correct, encourage and adopt solutions in those areas where the report points out signs or weaknesses. Its purpose is to continually improve education in the search for educational quality and equity, in a changing and absolutely dynamic society that forces the authorities to be in constant evolution. An international report that allows a comparison of Galicia's education system not only with the rest of autonomous communities, but also with regions and countries around the world; so the data reached by Galicia in 2018 is of greater value. It is data that undoubtedly endorses a model of teaching promoted by the Galician Union that places the student at the center of the system, with a strong commitment by programs to support scientific skills in mathematics that is being developed in the teaching centers of our autonomous community. Indeed, Counsellor, the Galician Union is making a great effort to develop the Welsh Strategy for Digital Education, integrating technology and innovation into classes in a cross-sectional, natural and gradual manner, strengthening STEM competences, introducing subjects as robotics or programming, but also leading educational and technological innovation to all subjects, in all areas, such as libraries. This effort can certainly explain Galicia's tendency for continued improvement in scientific and mathematical competences, with results above the average of Spain, the European Union and OECD. Counsellor, we often focus the PISA report on the results of student competences, when the report says other matters that are undoubtedly so relevant or more. For example, Galicia is one of the most equitable autonomous communities; which means that there are no significant differences in the student's results due to its social, economic or geographic situation. It also says that there is greater equity in the equalization of results between boys and girls, that we are a community that knows how to make every euro for education — which accounts for over 4% of the GDP of our community, which places us in one of the most student-student communities destined for the state as a whole. We can say in no way that the non-university education system in our community has changed and changed a lot in this decade of People's Party Government. So, Counsellor, we'd like to hear what valuation does the council of the 2018 PISA report. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u330	Thank you, Mrs. Antonio Vilasánchez. Response from the Education, University and Vocational Training Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u331	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. It is known that, as a teacher, and also as head of the Board of Education, University and Vocational Training right now, I always advocate working for the improvement of the education system through stable educational policies, innovative educational policies and that involve the whole educational community and not only the Administration. At the Education Council we see with satisfaction the results of the PISA 2018 report, which was presented last December. And the data confirm that Galicia reinforces the trend of improvement, a trend of improvement continues in scientific and mathematical competence, and that Greek education continues above the average of Spain, of the European Union and also of the OECD countries in these two competences. From the 2009 PISA, Galicia moved from the tenth to the fifth position in mathematics and from the fifth position to the first in scientific competence. The German student is therefore at the level of students from the United States, Korea, Germany, the Netherlands or the United Kingdom in scientific competence; while, with respect to mathematical competence, he is at the same level as Germany, Sweden or Finland. It's not about falling into purchasing, but we have to value Galicia's own educational model, differentiated and evaluated by the results not only of PISA data, but also because our community closed 2019 with the rate of early dropout from education, and that's 12.6%. Galicia is again, for the third consecutive year, under the target set for Spain by the European Union for 2020, set at 15%. And we've also improved the goal, even more ambitious, of reaching the 13% rate in 2020 in the Strategic Plan of Galicia. Once these milestones have been reached, Galicia continues to work towards further progress. The educational policies that have been promoted since the past decade have allowed to set up a quality, inclusive, multilingual education system that thinks of students and teachers, while adopting new technologies as an essential tool for training and skills learning. In short, it is an educational model in which to deepen and which can serve as a reference to other parts, other communities of the State. In fact, some communities are already sending technicians to know how educational initiatives are being developed, precisely in Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u332	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Antón Vilasánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u333	Thank you, Counselor. Yes, Counselor, we're on our way. The experts say that the quality of governance in education has an impact on the students' results. So, expert John Hattie gives a 30% of the teacher's quality in these good results. Therefore, the teacher's figure is indispensable to get those good results. This leads us to insist on the need to determine access to the teaching profession, as well as to persevere in continuing training, something Galicia has been working very hard in this decade in order not to leave anyone behind. Therefore, we must highlight the support for students with difficulties through the programme contracts, which incorporated 572 teachers for this purpose in this course. Nor can we forget the improvement of the working conditions of the teaching body to continue to maintain the conditions of a teacher/student ratio. Today we have, as I said, the lowest ratio in all of Spain, which allows more personalized and direct attention. Thinking of the student, the Welsh Autonomic Administration is also developing and putting into the hands of different families measures that contribute to that equity and equality that I had previously commented on in my first intervention. Perhaps it's all these issues, among other things, that explain the results of this PISA 2018 Report, since the advisor you're conducting has a line of work and a clear roadmap that is incorporating plans and programs that cover a wide range of education today, which is not confined exclusively to knowledge. The stability of which the Greek education enjoys is one of its strengths; and it shocks the national landscape, so I would like it in its reply to comment on what its impression of it is. Because, in order to maintain the Welsh educational model and persevere in its improvement, it is necessary for the Government of the State to fulfil its obligations towards Galicia. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u334	Thank you, Mrs. Antonio Vilasánchez. Close the question, advisor of Education, University and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u335	Thank you, President. Mrs. Antonio, on more than one occasion I have expressed in this House the idea that Galicia can serve as a reference to other areas for its educational model. And it's not the first time I commit that the council will defend the interests of Greek education since loyalty and general interest. After the political paralysis in the state, we are again, for months, to be decisive both in regulating non-university education and in regulating universities. In this context, Galicia wants to defend its singularities and its model, in addition to ensuring the financing it deserves. The First Council of June, on 31 October 2019, and this Parliament, through a parliamentary agreement this morning, set the Galician Agenda as the fundamental demands to move to the Central Government. I expect official confirmation of the specific date of the meeting that I will hold with Minister Isabel Celáa who, in response to the request by counseling, is scheduled for this same month of February. The meeting should serve as an exchange of positions on topics of interest to the teaching of Greek. Galicia supports the social demand for normative stability in education, while it considers it appropriate to take advantage of the work done in the past in Congress and achieve that pact for education. In this regard, it is priority that formulas that guarantee equal opportunities in access to university at the state as a whole be established within the shortest possible time frame. Another aspect that we are going to claim before the Ministry is that a model of access to the teaching profession similar to the MIR is approved, which reinforces the initial training of the teacher and supports the role of the collective as falling out of the educational system. Similarly, on the basis of the Greek teachers, since the Council, we are going to ask the Central Government to enable funding for Greek education in accordance with the first final provision of Law 4/2019 of 7 March to improve the conditions for the performance of teaching and teaching in the field of non-university education, as a step before the most appropriate decision can be taken on the schedule of teaching staff. And, pending the convening of the corresponding body, we will also anticipate the parliamentary agreement on the need to take steps to achieve the transfer of competences corresponding to the management of scholarships for study and the economic resources corresponding to them. The German teaching, ladies and gentlemen, has evolved a lot in the last decade and we can't waste our time on meaningless polemics. The educational results support Galicia's legitimate claim that the State offers normative stability, support for innovative projects and adequate funds to ensure the quality and fairness of the students' whole. The Council will be loyal, but do not give up defending the interests of German education. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u336	Thank you, Counselor. Question from Noa Presas Bergantiños and four other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the immediate improvements that will be carried out by the Government of Greece to rectify the deterioration of health in the district of Valdeorras
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u337	You have the floor to Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u338	Counsellor, this Saturday in Valdeorras the folios of Petin were not the only noise that was heard; it was also heard as thousands of neighbors and neighbors of the district of Valdeorras claimed in the streets of Valdeorras — worth redundancy — a public health, dignified and near. Public, worthy and close, Counselor. Because they no longer believe the lies of the People's Party for years and years, breaking their own promises. [[Applause]] Look, you know they've been promising improvements for years in the hospital that aren't coming, years making it difficult for a new health center in Valdeorras Street. Many years of many words and few facts. I ask you if you think you can go the day before that demonstration take a picture with the mayor of the street and with the president of the House of Ourense and think that, so, people will stay at home instead of telling you what you think about the state and how you're mistreating the public health of this part of the country. [[Applause]] They don't fool anyone, because those neighbors have been showing up for over a year every Monday, every Monday!; it could have agreed before that Friday before the demonstration demanding commitments to a new health centre. And that doesn't deal with photos, Mr. Almuña. Do you know what people were shouting at last Saturday's demonstration? "Where are the lands, where are they?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Because that's the degree of credibility that you have. So, I beg you today... you're teaching papers. I guess it's going to tell me the three things I'm going to ask you: budget, because in the budgets of the 2020 Galician Union nothing comes; deadlines, because you talked about months, and I don't know if in a few months you can build a health center; and clarity on the land, because with those planned you know the problems that there are and, if you don't know, I'll tell them later. But the question is, it wasn't the only one that claimed Valdeorras' neighborhood last Saturday; it was also solutions to Primary Care, because they still don't cover your squares in Rubiá, Veiga and Bolo. Because there are still hours of pediatrics in Viana do Bolo, and because there are also a lot of problems in the hospital. Problems like there are budgeted staff, like Cardiology, so that then he's serving mostly in other centers. Because there are unmet squares in specialties like Dermatology. There's a coincidence with Verin. Do you also know he screamed at people?: "We, as in Verín, united to the end." Because no one will stop this neighborhood in defense of its health. [[Applause]] They've also been promising home hospitalization for years and years, which is still a service that is not fully equipped, and they've also been denying other dramatic realities, such as those we've brought to this Parliament, for the counterfeiting of guards...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u339	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u340	...or other needs. Therefore, Counselor,...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u341	You know the question. Thank you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u342	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Noa Presas, "bad day to stop smoking." That's a phrase that came out in a movie, and that's what happens to you, because it doesn't usually represent health issues. And so were the ones who passed the papers to him -- as it is said here too much -- they weren't very focused. I fully agree with the first part of your speech. We want more services, closer to the citizen. We agree. With the second part, when he speaks lies, if I agree; but the lies are on his side, not on the side of the Government. Yesterday I had the audience talking only about comarcas hospitals, because, as I say, they cover as if it were the largest city in Galicia, because there are three hundred and forty thousand inhabitants. Therefore, for us it is a matter of priority and importance. And we said, speaking of the hospital in Valdeorras, that we expanded hospitalization home to 100 percent coverage. In this month of January we begin, and we'll go little by little encompassing, as I say, all that. But, in addition, we have investment in works. Do you want data, figures and so on? Then we give them to you. Work to reform the external consultation area: it is bided and recruitment procedure, started in December. We calculate that, with the presentation of bids and various administrative processes, in May this year, in a few months, it's in operation. It aims to install a new mounted elevator, equip the turn system, improve the thermal comfort of Rehabilitation, wait for Magnetic Resonance and reform and update of External Consultations. We're talking about going to act about eight hundred and eight square metres from that hospital, with a budget of almost half a million euros and a five and a half months execution. And we're also working on the reform of the Day Hospital, Oncology and the Digestive Area, Major Ambulatory Surgery Unit and Pharmacy. At this point in time the project is being carried out — this project has been helped — in two months they have to present the project and then we'll bid it out. So we'll also be in tenders, in the other at work and here in tenders, about, with an investment of nine hundred thousand euros. Totally between the two are almost a million and a half euros of investment in the boat hospital already. And we are going to act in four areas in this last work, where we are doing the project: in the area of the Day Hospital, in the area of Oncology and Palliatives, with more consultations; in the area of the Day Hospital itself, with twelve chairs and light transport beds; in the area of Endoscopy-Digestive, to make rooms independent of what is the waiting room, the room where we do the tests and the room to recover from the sedation; in the Ambulatory Major Surgery Unit, where the areas of adaptation to the environment will be expanded — preoperative — with a bad room to act both by medical personnel and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u343	Thank you, Counselor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u344	So we keep working to improve Valdeorras hospital...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u345	He's got another shift later. Thank you. Your time is up. He's got another shift later. Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u346	Your Honor, I advise you to stop smoking. I don't know much because I've never done it before. But, look, I'm going to give you advice: it's never a bad day to abandon the paternalism you bring. For that, it's never a bad day. [[Applause]] And another tip: if you were as many times, as we were any of this parliament, listening to the staff board at the Valdeorras hospital, maybe you'd better do your job. That would probably do better. To have so much interest yesterday in today's question — which I was listening to and actually referring to the issue of the health centre — he forgot to answer that. I suppose it will be so that I will not counter-repeat the lie that will tell me in the next paragraph. Yes, yes, yes! Because those problems about the lands that were planned continue, as far as we know. In any case, he sends the information that this parliamentary group has requested, and that he has also requested our municipal group, and we can talk about it. In any case, three questions: we want to know the location, we want to know the deadlines and we want to know the budget, Mr Almuña. And the second question, about the issues that sold us from the hospital: smoke and more smoke. I will no longer take away the cuts from the sale of home-hospital smoke because I would not have time; but, look, we can talk, by choosing a member of this House who is now changing, we can see how you, on September 29, 2017 — I have the photograph here — were already talking about the good that the home-hospital service worked. Of course, because it's like Guadiana: sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn't. And you know there's a lot of incomplete time issues. [[Applause]] He also told me about many works, because they think they can supplement with cement what they don't complete with professionals. You gave me data on hospital improvement commitments that were already committed to a written response -- here's the Galician board member; you can take a copy if you want -- by November 2017. Because that's what you do with Valdeorras' public health: selling smoke when...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u347	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u348	...there are elections, but it doesn't work and people don't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u349	Thanks, time's up. Thank you. Close the question, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u350	I think the paternalist concept should check it out. I think we're talking about aspects of knowledge and what we're talking about. [[Applause]] I know you don't like the works, but they're important, because the pharmacy, which also enters the restructuring, is fundamental to adapting new oncoholic day hospitals to new treatments. So we're going to do a major pharmacy reform. Of course, equipment too. There are five thousand euros in the 2020 budget for this hospital's equipment. I mean, brick, equipment, personnel. Look, we've incorporated more than thirty-three professionals into this hospital in the last five years. In five years, five more optional, twenty-seven non-optional health care. So we're adding works, equipment and personnel. Waiting lists, I said yesterday: of the best figures we have. Yes, yes! Look! The surgical waiting list numbers: 37.4 days. Below, 17 days less than half Galicia, which is within the top four of all Spain, and 11 days less than in Ourense, in Ourense capital. So we're talking about an important level. Activity also: 39,000 diagnostic tests, 62,500 and 2,191. But you were worried about the street health center. Look, the current mayor, from the very beginning, said they wanted to make a health center there. I think it's okay, because the old man has limitations. And we decided to put it in writing, with a protocol exactly the same as what the mayor of Moaña signed, exactly the same: PP mayor and BNG mayor. We both sign a protocol on the condition that they make the plot available, and at the same time we've already given a draft agreement for when the plot is located, as we have some obligations. The duties of the council are the project of work and those of the council, the plot. But, look, they haven't been asking for a health center for so long! Because I signed with Mrs. Maria González Albert an agreement where what the previous mayor of the BNG asked for was... [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no! Don't call me a liar with documentation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u351	No, Mrs. Presas, no. Please! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u352	What they asked for was an elevator, an elevator.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u353	Shut up, Mrs. Presas! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u354	If they asked for a new health center, we'd sign an agreement for a health center.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u355	Silence! Madam Presas, you've already spoken.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u356	He signed up for an elevator, and so the elevator is set. Of course, protocols we've got them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u357	Mrs. White, please! The question is from Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u358	...and what we ask the Mayor of the Street and the Mayor of Moaña is that they give us the plot; as soon as it looks like, we, project and work. And we'll do it. He smokes with papers. With papers, we met.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u359	Thank you, Counselor. Quiet, please! Silence! Please, silence! Calm down, please. We must respect who is in the use of the word, fundamentally, because, if not, from then on, I understand that for a person who is responding, this is disturbing to you. I'd ask them to respect who's in the use of the word. Because to you, Mrs. Presas, while she spoke, everyone respected her. Yes, I was here. Then, please. We know what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u360	Let's move on to the next question. Question by Mr Aurelio Alfonso Núñez Centeno and six other Members of the G.P. Galician populace, about the balance that makes the Galician board of the current degree of development of the primary care plan and its results
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u361	Mr. Núñez Centeno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u362	Thank you, Mr. President. Let's see if we're able to ask the question without interruptions, as you said. Counselor, good afternoon. The importance of primary care in public health I think it is unquestionable for all of us in this room. It was initially conceived as an entry door to the health system but now integrates a multiplicity of functions that convert it into the vertebrate axis of the health system. Galicia has perfectly trained primary care professionals who have been, or have been, progressively expanding competences, over the years, until they perform functions and activities that would seem unthinkable when I myself began to work as a head doctor. The increase in life expectancy, resulting, among other reasons, from the improvement of the health system, has led Europe-wide to a situation of chronicity in the predominant pathologies that need a response from the health system, and must further enhance the fundamental role of Primary Care in people's health. At this point, we find ourselves in a situation of difficulty because of the shortage of medical professionals in Primary Care, both in family medicine specialists and in pediatrics. All these circumstances were evaluated by the Councillory of Health, pioneer, together with the Basque Country, in taking measures to alleviate the situation, launching working groups with the different professional categories to develop a primary plan of primary care 2019-2021, which has already been approved and implemented, which brings short, medium and long-term measures and seeks to solve the current problems of that level of care. At the request of professional colleges and scientific societies, he formed a group of experts, coordinated by doctors Bengoa and Varela, to discuss and present proposals for primary care for the coming decades. From the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Counsellor, on the basis of all the above, we would like to ask you: What balance does the Galician Union make of the current degree of development of the primary care plan and of the results achieved so far by the same? For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u363	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u364	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is we're very happy. We know that Primary Care is a fundamental element of the health system and, in addition, a Primary Care of Success. It transformed the attention of the traditional head doctor, where a person alone had to care for his patients, with equipment integrated into health centers. But we believe that the model has a number of problems that the passing of time has shown that there was a need to change, and therefore from the very first moment, as an autonomous community, we have taken some pioneering measures to try to deal with these reforms. For us, Primary Care is the vertebrate element of the system. Primary Care consists of the main core of citizen health care: Primary Care with planned and distributed health resources according to population needs, Primary Care where professionals work in a coordinated way among themselves and taking on the new roles, a Primary Care oriented to the community, with trained professionals who form and investigate, and with appropriate material resources and collected in a needs plan. All of this is collected from the primary care plan 2019-2021. Sometimes, when the opposition says there's no commitment on the part of the board... this was adopted at a Council of the Council of Galicia, with a clear economic endowment, with an economic memory that everyone can see. We made a follow-up plan to the primary care plan of the city of Galicia 2019-2021 through the indicators developed for each of these actions. They are evaluated in short-term actions — at this moment, logically, is the first part — in addition to the medium-term and long-term. The results of the implementation of the short-term actions — which were a very important percentage of them — indicate that 98.8% of them are already completed or in progress. It's more: 88.8% are already finished. So we think it's very important. Which are the ones I would like to highlight from those already finished? For example: the call for opposition competition for various categories of Primary Care, a number of squares offered in 2019 that rises to 254 squares in Family Medicine, 93 squares in Pediatrics and Primary Care, 7 squares in Dentistry, 18 in Pediatric Nursing and 30 in Family and Community Nursing, in addition to 135 in General Services. I also highlight the creation of 45 squares in 2019, I insist, the creation of squares. In Primary Care they are already budgeted. The established squares are: 12 for Family Medicine, 25 for Nursing and 8 for physiotherapists. In addition, 23 professionals specialize in Family and Community Nursing at the Galician Service and 13 with the specialty of Pediatric Nursing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u365	Thank you, Counselor. Your time is up. He's got another shift later. Replica, Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u366	Thank you, Counselor. At this very plenary session, we discussed a motion on the expert group document that showed the contradictions of opposition groups between what they say and what they really believe should be done in Primary Care. With regard to the current fundamental problem — the shortage of professionals — they are confined to blaming the whole People's Party, when I can remember the similar problems of the shortage of optionals that existed in the years 2008 and 2009, with a two-party government in Santiago and a socialist government in Madrid. The opposition is to blame, ladies and gentlemen, but it doesn't help to find solutions, even though they now have many possibilities to do so with the new government of Spain. You have asked, on repeated occasions, and our group since 2017, for the withdrawal of the restriction of restorative rates for public health, implanted with 10 per cent — I think we must remember — by the Government of Mr Zapatero. You had requested, and were approved in the Interterritorial, all other measures such as professional registration, speeding up the accreditation of new teaching units for specialized health training, approval of non-Community optional titles or revision of the rules of incompatibility. But now that Socialists and the United Nations can rule in Madrid, and the BNG has joined an investment pact with the Socialist Party, it seems that they have forgotten all these measures necessary to address the current and future deficit of optionals. In that BNG pact of what we talk about so much in this plenary, there is no single line on public health or primary care, and it refers to the rate of rest with a diffuse "analyse formulas to progressively improve replacement rates", which has nothing to do with what we approved or with what they asked for in this same Chamber, which was the elimination of the said rate. On this second occasion, Mr Counsellor, we would like to thank you, apart from completing, if you would like, the answer to inform us of the activities in infrastructure and technology carried out or provided for in the primary care plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u367	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Close the question, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u368	Thank you very much, President. I was commenting that it is also very important, logically, to increase the number of training squares, which, after many calls to the Ministry, we were able to increase. And we're going to get -- we're, in fact, we're going to take out -- in the last MIR two weeks ago, 129 places of medical specialists in Family Medicine, the largest number of all history; 27 pediatrics squares, also the greatest in history; 49 places for the formation of Family Nursing, Community and Pediatrics, also the greatest in history. So we keep working and taking measures. In fact, yesterday at the Interterritorial Council, which was a monographic to talk about the coronavirus, as we had commented, I told the new minister that it was necessary as soon as possible an Interterritorial Council to talk about these issues: the reposition rate and the subject of training specialists. Because we have real problems and we must deal with them all. We're also talking about changing the management structure and enhancing the role of primary care chief. We believe that the primary care management, the primary care chief and the nursing coordinator of these centers are very important. In other words, in 2019, we have EUR 8,591,000 for electromedical health equipment, clinical furniture and general office furniture for health centres. All kinds of equipment needed to improve attention to our patients. It's a fundamental thing. Logically, as I said, in addition to creating squares — more doctors in training — more equipment, and we also followed the works. We have just put into operation the new Gondomar health center, from which the president put the magnificent photo; but we also expanded the Laracha CAP, expanded the Arousa Island health center, the Borbent Peace Center, and we are building an important number that we are going to open in a short time: The Milladoiro-Ames, The Road, The Saviñao, Paderne de Allariz or The Pereiro de Aguiar, in addition to the Salceda de Caselas health center, also of the most important ones we have in construction, and improvements, as I say, in Mugardos and the Bridges centers. By the way, these two Mugardos and The Bridges were transferred after thirty-one years of belonging to the Town Hall. The truth is we're doing a work almost from a new center, because maintenance there wasn't too good. Of course, we said it's not all done, we're still working to complete the actions, but we're the autonomy that differs from the Basque Country; it's true, the Basque Country came after us, it goes quite ahead, because it's a problem in general of all Spain that only measures of a community can help but we can't solve the problems. That record of professionals and other kinds of improvements we're asking the Ministry for and we're going to keep working to make an important improvement. And, of course, I would like to thank the primary care professionals for the magnificent work they do every day, and that they have also made possible [...].
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u369	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u370	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u371	Next question. From Noela Blanco Rodríguez and D. Julio Torrado Quintela, from G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the stage in which the report on the phenomenon of loneliness is found in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u372	You have the floor to Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u373	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. As you know, a PSdEG initiative was unanimously approved in June 2019 to combat unwanted loneliness. A reality that especially affects our biggest and, if we go to the most concrete, women over eighty-five years old. In this text that was approved unanimously in this House, it was collected that you, the Galician Union, would produce in this X legislation a complete report, in collaboration with the Fegamp, the Government of Spain and the third sector, which would collect a census of older people living alone, with the intention of, later, developing a strategy for the prevention and attention of this problem that we have in our autonomous community. It is therefore a question of making a complete social map that collects that forced suffering that many people have in this country because of this failure or lack of interpersonal relationships, so as to put more resources from it to deal with dignity that we always say they deserve our greatest and, above all, because of the social debt we have with them and with them. More resources are needed, and more after eleven years of the People's Party's government, of 11 years of Feijóo, where the attention of the elders was maintained in minimum services, where many poles were placed on the wheels to the attention of these people, who — they will agree with me — need it and well deserve it. We say it because the latest data we've met tells us once again that we're in line for spending on dependents; that there are nine autonomous communities, Counselor, that exceed us in investment, in expenditure for dependents. And you know, as we have repeated to you on many occasions, despite the makeup that you try to apply to the issue of the number of squares in residential care, which even recognizes the Board of Auditors itself, that in eleven years of Mr. Feijóo's government they started in Galicia zero; zero direct management squares of the Government of Greece, of the Autonomous Administration. You know that we have a residential care square rate for people over the age of sixty-five who is below the state average and who is also well below the demand, as required, of the WHO itself. With regard to the issue of the census of older people, we have seen in recent months, Counselor, many press releases. It is true that you took on the initiative of the PSdEG and that they advertise it, and that pleases us. But today we want to ask you whether, in addition to sending press notes in the last eight months, they've done something about it. And nothing else for now, thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u374	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Response from the Social Policy Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u375	President, ladies and gentlemen, very late for everyone. Mrs. Blanco, I would like to thank you for your interest in the Social Policy Council's work on the strategy against unwanted loneliness. One of the consequences of increasing the longevity of Greek society is that there are a high number of older people who still live alone today. A proportion of these older people is in an unwanted loneliness situation. Naturally, this situation concerns me, just as I imagine you're actually worried about me. That's why one of the challenges that has marked the Galician Union is to act to alleviate the sadness that many of these people will feel and, very especially, the risks that it entails for a older person to live alone. That's why the Social Policy Council has started work in recent months to develop a strategy that confronts and gives effective answers and concrete answers to this phenomenon. Tell him, as you ask me, the steps we have been following by the Social Policy Council. First of all, on September 9, we held a working meeting with the management teams of the Galego Institute of Statistics to determine the methodology to be used, first step in order to be able to define the figures of loneliness. Secondly, in October, the first contact was established with the Galaga Federation of Municipalities and Provinces to establish the channels to be able to share all the necessary information, since local entities must be first-level allies in the fight against unwanted loneliness. Thirdly, in recent weeks there have also been several meetings with entities and institutions related to older people such as the Red Cross, the Galaga Association of Pensioners or the Galaga Confederation of Persons with Disabilities — Cogami — to achieve their involvement in the elaboration of this strategy; something that I would like to transfer to them today, of course, our gratitude. In parallel to all these facts, the Social Policy Council team also participated in various meetings and forums convened by the Imserso and the State Council of Seniors, where we moved to the national authorities that Galicia is already working on this strategy. Ladies and gentlemen, with this new Galician strategy you will demonstrate that you not only seek the physical well-being of our older people — who too — but also your emotional well-being. Because this strategy will sort out and complement the resources that are already available to all older people. I, Mrs. Blanco, don't know...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u376	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u377	...in which country he lives...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u378	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u379	...I live in Galicia and here we give more services and more [...]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u380	Thank you, your time is up. Thank you. [[Applause]] Replica, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u381	Thank you very much, President. Look, Counsellor, I live in a country where, according to the latest report of directors and managers of social services, there is a deficit of 14,858 residential squares as far as WHO itself is concerned. I live in a country, Counselor, where four out of every ten residential care squares — only four out of every ten! — have public funding. [[Applause]] That's the country where we all live, and, of course, that's what we want to change. And the truth is, you said you were worried about us. Man, we're so worried that it was the PSdeG who had to bring an initiative to this House so you could start doing something about it! Because — I repeat — it was not in the agenda, in that agenda that you so much sell, that you so much claim lately, in the social policy agenda itself, of your department. We are concerned because we know that they contacted the Fegamp and sent us to all parliamentary groups a report on the information requested by the people's valet. We're very concerned that you try, as always, to take charge but to throw the loads to the Town Councils. Therefore, precisely, the Fegamp has already told them to look! that they will collaborate, but that they cannot throw away all this strategy, the cost that they will have, in the municipalities, and more in the small municipalities. And he was also reminded of those restrictions imposed by Mr. Rajoy's Government in 2013, of rationalization, which was -- and I quote from the Scriptures -- that "many municipalities could not allocate more resources to the use of assistance in a very complicated years of economic crisis." The charges are yours; they don't burden the municipalities, as they usually do, they repeat it again, Counselor. Look, you're the only thing you've done in these years was a program, together for Christmas, and curiously it turns out that it's okay for older people to get together in a residence, but it's just a few meters away...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u382	Thank you, thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u383	...a larger residence that's with the squares...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u384	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco, time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u385	...without covering, with list [...]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u386	Thank you. [[Applause]] Shuttle shift, Social Policy advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u387	Thank you very much, President. Mrs. Blanco, I live in a country where in 2009 there were 14,000 dependents, and in that same country, in Galicia, today there are 61,600 dependents cared for, and the road already of the 65,000 dependents, Mrs. Blanco. [[Applause]] I don't know if you care — the truth — about the strategy against unwanted loneliness; for me and this government, yes. So I don't know what events in your calendar worry you either, but I do know what concerns me: in the area of older people, to arrive, as I told you, to 65,000 dependents attended, to multiply by ten the extension of the care program door-to-door and, of course, also to bring this much-needed Welsh strategy forward against unwanted loneliness. In case you're interested in the near future, I can make an announcement today: next week we'll take a very important step within the elaboration of this strategy, as a working group will be held in which the challenges and main lines of action will be defined. This group will be composed of specialists from different administrations as well as various institutions such as the Social Policy Council, the Health Council, the Fegamp, the IGE, the Red Cross, the Glaga Society of Jericho and also various social initiative entities in the area of older people and care for dependent people. Ladies and gentlemen, once again the German Government demonstrates its commitment to older people, and so we will always do it. We will always continue to take decisive steps to reach the goal of a better society, where older people can freely, actively, and fully integrated into our society. Mrs. Blanco, the older people, for this government, are not a burden; I hope they're not a burden to the municipalities either. But what I hope is, too, that the central government, where you rule, doesn't charge them either, and that they start entering the 200 million euros a year that they owe to older people. [[Applause]] Because that's the real commitment of a government that thinks and wants older people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u388	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Moisés Blanco Paradelo and six other Members of the G.P. People of Galicia, on the assessment made by the Government of Greece of the actions carried out since the signing of this new accession to the cooperation agreement between the Galician Union, the Gallaga Federation of Municipalities and Provinces -Fegamp- and the Galegos Agrarian Services Company, S.A. -Seaga-
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u389	Mr. Blanco Paradelo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u390	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor. You're going to allow me, before you ask your question, I'm only half a minute to give a little explanation, because I think one of the previous questions I've been approached without being appointed. And if I'd like to explain two questions. First: a few years ago, of course, the home hospital service was implanted in the boat, and what you've done now is to implant it in the whole area, and that's why you hired a doctor and a nurse. So I think that's important to differentiate it. And on the other hand, it's true that the current Mayor of the Street has been doing for seven months and what he's doing... in the previous government there was a socialist mayor for two years and a mayor of the BNG for another two and they haven't succeeded; this mayor in at least seven months has already been able to sign an agreement and sure that he will get that [...]. [[Applause]] Having said this, Counselor, I wanted...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u391	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u392	I don't understand, really. Little fit! Counselor, as you know, August 10, 2018...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u393	Madam Presas, silence! Silence! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u394	I don't understand, really.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u395	Mr. Peace and Sir... we're finishing up now, please, a little bit of rope. A little rope! It's okay, nobody's changed here, and what's changed is better not to come. Or altered. [[Murmurs.]] It's better not to come, because this isn't to be changed, it's to be quiet and ask questions as you should. If not, we're going wrong. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Time's up, calm down. Now you go.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u396	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, as you know, last August 10th of 2018 approved the Commission's opinion with one hundred and twenty-three measures. We have discussed for several months many issues in which we all agreed: the economic and demographic decline in rural areas in Galicia last century prompted the concentration of population and economic activity in urban areas; the deforestation process made a large number of agricultural land stop working, while growing large areas with slaughterhouses. This problem of fires in the urban-forest area, known as fire-interface, was analyzed in a number of appearances, which can be spread within housing and which causes specific and distinct problems to arise from purely forest fires. In addition, they increase the risk for population, for property, and cause a growing complexity in prevention and extinction. Recommendation No. 54 said, among many paragraphs: "to provide stable collaboration and advice to the municipalities in meeting their prevention obligations, giving them uniformity to the procedures and actions developed by them." I also think it is important to remember that Law 3/2007 of 9 April on fire prevention and defence states that the obligation to clear secondary strips of protection belongs to the owners and, in their case, to fail to comply, corresponds to the municipalities. You've done what you've done is to help the municipalities, and that's why they signed an agreement with Fegamp and, recently, with an addition to that agreement with Fegamp, with the advice you're directing and with Seaga, precisely to work together in these cleaning, care and maintenance of secondary tracks, and to be able to keep them in good condition [...].
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u397	Thank you, Mr. Blanco Paradello.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u398	What is the valuation of your government of this debt?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u399	Thank you, thank you. So long the clock here, now I have to go back to... No, no, answer, answer from the rural councillor. A clock problem. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u400	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mr. Blanco Paradello. First of all, I would like to point out, as you have also conveyed to us, that this agreement actually emerges after the wave of fires in October 2017, of the reflections that were made in the study committee we had here in Parliament, and, on the basis that the obligation to clean the 50-metre fringes around all the villages we have in Galicia is compulsory for the owners, there is also an important task of the municipalities in which we refer to the subsidiary execution. But we also understand, when we reflect on this, that the Board had to take a hand, it had to help, it had to collaborate with the municipalities in the development of their competences. And this agreement is an example of institutional collaboration between the Union and the Fegamp — the entity representing all the municipalities — and also the Seaga public entity. And I hope now, also taking into account the report of the experts that we have designated all parliamentary groups in this Parliament, who are also coming up to this agreement, in defense of our neighbours and neighbours, in defense of the people who live in villages, in the face of forest fires, the provincial deputies. I've been talking to the President of the Provincial Parliament this week and moving him to the necessity that we all collaborate in the fight against fires, in his prevention. Look, this convention, as you know, implements a public system for cleaning secondary fringes around the villages. At this point in the convention we already have 252 of the 313 municipalities in Galicia, and we have 35 municipalities that have priority parishes, which are the most dangerous parishes in the face of forest fires. That's where we clean up in exchange for 350 euros per hectare. But we were also aware that we had to give more benefits to all the municipalities that joined us, and that's why we were working on the agreement with the different salaries. At this point, all the municipalities benefit from the possibility that we make the municipal prevention plans for them. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight the work being done by the Instituto de Estudios do Territorial, along with the Directorate-General for Defence of the Mountain, which has already managed to ensure that 157 of the 252 municipalities have a municipal plan to prevent forest fires. I remind you that it was one of the issues that the Prosecutor's Office required most about the Town Councils. But we also put forward the slot viewer, which allows you to view them on computers and be able to identify those that are not clean; the computer program, which will be fully developed this year, from the Xesbius; or the management that we are doing to the councils in the notification of subsidiary executions. Several thousand reports of subsidiary executions are being centralized. And the novelty that we have in the second addendum that we have just signed is that we extend the possibility that, through the Seaga public entity, if we perform subsidiary executions to all the municipalities that are attached, which are 252. For those 252 will be able to have five hectares of subsidiary executions. I'll continue in the answer by explaining to them all the advantages of this...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u401	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u402	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, indeed, we want to positively appreciate the help they are providing to the municipalities, because, as we remember, it was Law 3/2007 that gave that responsibility to the properties, and in your case to the municipalities, and you are not leaving them alone. I think it is also necessary to recognize the effort they are doing and the goodwill they have put in place by all the mayors and mayors of Galicia, who have, of course, encountered many difficulties for this fulfilment by the great number of population nuclei and the multitude of plots that they had to manage and, above all, by the unknown owners, which in many cases made cleaning work impossible. So we want to very positively value this agreement. In recommendation No. 54 there was also another paragraph which said: "To direct and coordinate all public administrations with fire prevention powers, given the need for all administrations involved - councils, deputies and joints of Galicia - to comply with their legal obligations in this field". We believe that too, and we want to make a call to the various provincial deputies. They have a lot of machinery, they know the land very well, they also have to advise and help the municipalities. I believe that it is also essential that these four institutions so important for the rural environment should be able to collaborate in this task of cleaning and extinguishing fires. It's very important to fight fires through prevention and extinction, but it's also very important to do so through the recovery of activity in those strips of protection and land-use. And for this we also want to value and highlight the projects of the model village that are being carried out. Today we hear opposition groups talking about the rural environment. They always speak in a negative; we do not expect much help, of course. That's right, what they're getting ready to go to different demonstrations, but in Galicia; because to the demonstrations in Madrid you have to see how many buses you've taken to go there to accompany other farmers. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u403	Thank you, Mr. Blanco. For the closing of the question, the Middle Rural Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u404	Thank you very much again, Mr. President. Mr. Blanco Paradelo, perhaps earlier it was not clear enough what is meant by the second addendum, because we are continually playing the convention... I wanted to say, and I repeat again: there are 252 municipalities attached — 80% of Galician municipalities — and I ask those who are missing to adhere to it, because all are advantages. And as we want to give everyone and each one of them the greatest possible advantages, what we did in this second allowance was incorporate the possibility that in all of them we can do, through the Seaga public entity, five hectares of subsidiary execution. Town Councils have to notify us of the sites where the cleaning is done, and we, under the agreement, go there and do, totally free of charge, to the cleaning council on those five acres. We recommend that it may be around schools or other sites where it is appropriate to clean up; but it is a way to start extending the public service or system of cleaning strips to all municipalities that are attached. We were also aware that unbundling every year is an inescapable economic cost for both public administrations and owners themselves. That's why we designed the model village mechanism, where the owners, instead of paying for scraps, are going to charge for renting. What we want is that people can rent their farms for the development of agricultural activity, with which they do prevention in a more permanent way. Look, the model village program is working very well and it's going to work exceptionally well. At this time we have six declared model villages where the works are already started; in this February we will take to the Council of the Galician Rural Development Agency eight other model villages, and we are currently collecting firms in about twenty-five model villages. We have over 50 applications. And you know what? When we're going to visit the villages, and when we get there and ask people, that's what gives us more strength to carry on with the project, because they're very, very excited about them too. At this point, the model villages in which we are acting mean, towards land mobilization, 620 hectares. And I want to pay particular attention to the number of plots: we are mobilizing more than 13,000 plots — the exacerbated minifundism — of a total of 3,200 owners. More than 90% of the headlines in the fringes, in the model villages, are giving us the consent to enter. So we're betting on a diversification of our territory, a bet on agricultural activity as the best natural firewall and as the best way to prevent forest fires. Because we want to recover and put into value, and with enough added value, so that people want to live in rural and also live in rural. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u405	Thank you, Counselor. Question by José Manuel Pérez Seco and D. Óscar Vilar Chento, from G.P. of the Galician Socialists on the notification to the beneficiaries of agri-environmental aid
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u406	Mr. Pérez Seco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u407	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Mr González, last December you sent a letter to the beneficiaries of agri-environmental aid stating that the extension of this aid continued in 2020. In this letter you didn't explain anything about the public act held in Lugo province in September 2019; an act carried out by the staff you are conducting in the Council and in which the personal statement assured that there would be no such aid in 2020. I also forgot in this letter to explain that these aids were not included in the preliminary draft budget of the Autonomous Community of Galicia by 2020. Made all these who have provoked several criticisms by the various agricultural organizations representing the follow-up committee of the PDR of Galicia 2014-2020; criticisms that caused their advice to have to rectify and facts that forced them to amend themselves. Counsellor, these agri-environmental aids benefit more than 4,000 farmers, farms located - most of them - in mountain areas and disadvantaged areas. These are aids which are of great importance to the survival of these farms and which also help to combat the abandonment of rural areas. What you said was this: that we see the obligation to take this initiative in the face of the various information disseminated by certain media and organizations, those who accuse themselves of not giving true information. Mr. González, we here today, with this question, are not going to accuse him of giving true information or not. You'll know. What we are asking you to do is to coordinate with your own staff and not confuse people. What if we criticize is this practice practiced by you. We believe that sending these letters is the start of a more indirect advertising campaign of the Galician Union a few months from the autonomous elections. And, on the other hand, we also criticise this strange request for personal data—name, surnames, address, postal code, province, mobile phone and e-mail of these beneficiaries—with the pretext of enabling more fluid communication; data that you should already have in your archives. This data was requested, obviating at all times the information on the treatment they will receive, thereby violating the current data protection legislation. So I ask you the following question: Do you believe, Counsellor, that it is good to use sending letters to recipients of environmental aid with the request for personal data? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u408	Thank you, Mr. Pérez Seco. Answer from the Middle Rural Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u409	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Pérez Seco, I understand perfectly that it costs you so much to ask the question, because... order a trick, eh! First of all, let me, however, thank you for your question, both to you and to the Socialist Parliamentary Group in Galicia, above all, for showing such a deep interest in matters of a purely administrative nature. I believe that the current situation of farmers and farmers in Greece and Spain deserves us to focus on questions, no doubt, much more relevant. The future of our sector, which we see in these weeks as being defending on the street, is now the main concern of this advisor; but if we have to talk about procedures, diligence and processing, we are going to talk about it. Look, the question is quite clear. He says, "Is it good to use sending letters to recipients of environmental aid with the request for personal data?"Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh And my answer will be also clear: yes, it's a fantastic prax. I wish all public administrations would inform and communicate stakeholders the same way they're doing here in Galicia. I'd just miss it! [[Applause]] Look, we watched a horror film where there was an interest in transmitting to people who were of age and who lived on these aids that there would be no help. We were in a transitional period between the two CAPs, and we were defending to maintain within that transition period the status quo and, of course, to secure environmental aid. It seems interesting, at least to me, to give relevance to a question where, from the Middle Rural Council, if you're doing a very good job. And I would like to thank you again for coming here to the Galician Parliament to value the communication made by the Board of Directors to our farmers and livestock. But, ladies and gentlemen, would a public administration want to communicate with the recipients of its measures, farmers and livestock, is it wrong? We will have to continue, in your case, improving in form, frequency and background, but we thank — again to tell you — to highlight this work, today, in the home of all the Greeks. From the Council, ladies and gentlemen, we have to make an effort to update the data on agricultural holdings. It's our competition. Keeping up-to-date information is, of course, necessary. And in this case, I'd like to know where you see the bad spot, since there's no such thing. The Council's own Legal Counsel reads all the letters I send to farmers and farmers. And they can be quiet: we will never make use of that data without first fulfilling all the data protection procedure. But, as they are so concerned by legislation, I read to them: "He has complied with the provisions contained in the Security Measures Regulation, in Royal Decree 994/1999, as well as with the aberration of Organic Law 15/99, on the protection of personal data, and in Law 3/2018, on the protection of personal data and the guarantee of digital rights." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u410	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Pérez Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u411	Thank you very much, Counselor. I mean, whenever they make a phone call or we have a phone call, they tell us about data protection. And when they send us a letter to cover our data, they always come along with what you just said and mentioned now, so I think that in the letter, to you, to your advisor, they forgot to put something on. Those who confused the people were you with this act of Lugo. The situation in the agribusiness sector I think we're all worried about, but we're also concerned about the treatment they can do from an advisor's point of view with the data of the applicants for this aid, for example. These are data that you already have in your request to the Council, because any citizen who makes any request to the Administration has to cover a series of data, and those are left in the archives of that advice. [[Applause]] Counsellor, look, another councillor, at the end of December 2019, sent the city council a letter to send documentation by email. That letter was an error in the email address. What have they done since that council? Calling the county council to cure that data. That letter I'm speaking of was not signed by the counsellor; it was signed by a general address, just as he had to be signed by a general address and not by you. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u412	Thank you, Mr. Pérez Seco. For the closing of the question, the Middle Rural Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u413	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much again. I am obliged to reiterate the fantastic work of the Rural Council in its attempt to update the information on agricultural holdings and maintain a fluid communication with farmers and farmers, with our farmers and farmers. Look, it's not that it's the councillor, but it's the responsibility of the Rural Council to maintain the Glagas Agricultural Exploitation Register, and it's logical that we try to update the data of our farmers and livestock owners so they can quickly pass on to them all those measures that can benefit them. Taking account of farms, as well as other elements, is a necessary activity for the proper time of the Council. It's not an election act at all. It's just that it costs me, really, Mr. Pérez Seco, to explain that talking to farmers and livestock can be an election act. And I'm saying this because, in fact, they've only managed to enhance communication between the Union and the German farmers and livestock. I repeat the questions I asked you before, because I haven't been able to understand it yet: where do you see you voting at the bad spot? Or in the transmission of the need for a fluent communication between the Council of the Rural Environment, who has the competences, and the farmers and recipients of these powers? From the Rural Council, we work and we will work hard to defend the status quo and the situation of our farmers and farmers in the negotiation of the CAP. And in this transitional period, if there were any doubts, we would solve it, ensuring the maintenance of agri-environmental aid, always thinking in the sector and, in any case, in each of the Greek farmers and livestock or in the set that would be the future of the sector. This concern reaches both the German farmers and the Germans as well as this councillor, and I am sure that to all their lords. Because, as you can see, the Council focuses its attention on dealing with the real problems of rural areas. That is why I repeat that purely administrative matters — and more so when it comes to establishing eloquent and fluid communication — do not in any case represent priority issues and only make a further effort to advance the Council's policy in its relationship with the sector. Therefore, I hope your doubts are met with satisfaction. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-02-05-DSPG148.u414	Thank you, Counselor. There's no more questions. It ends here. Good night.
