ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u1	Good morning. We're going to start the session. The next item is the Official Gazette of Parliament, so we will not proceed to its reading. Mrs Maria Guadalupe Murillo Solis justified her inattentiveness and delegated the vote to Mr Pedro Puy Fraga. The Bureau, now meeting, authorized this delegation to vote. No more, we're on the agenda and we're starting with the legislative texts. Comprehensive discussion of the Bill of Museums and other Museum Centres of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u2	The Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group have tabled amendments to this bill. For the presentation of the bill, the Councillor for Culture, Education and University, Mr. Román Rodríguez González has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u3	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we bring to this House the draft law of museums and other museums in Galicia, which is the first legal text that will regulate, autonomously and independently, this area of action and which will grant these institutions all the protagonistism and relevance they deserve. This new rule, which begins the parliamentary process today, comes to an ambitious regulatory process—we could define it as a true virtuous circle—by what we have already approved the Library and File and Document Law, and which we hope to be able to culminate next year 2021 with this law, which would be the first Welsh museum law. Access to culture is a right of all people, so it is recognized by our Constitution and also by our Statute of Self-Government. And museums are a fundamental instrument, the most fundamental of which we have the public powers to guarantee this right. They are true institutions serving citizenship and the highest relevance in a democratic and modern society like ours. Galicia currently has 94 museums of very different typology and nature. Our community has experienced an important growth in recent years. Since 1986, when the first regulations appear, the number of museums has increased by 200%. Before the current health context, data indicated that more than one and a half million people were approaching our museums annually. They are also genuine economic assets that depend on a large number of workers, both directly and indirectly. This clear evolution has also highlighted the importance of regulating this area through a comprehensive and specific policy framework. This bill comes to fill an existing void so far. Without a doubt, it will be able to deepen the consolidation and empowerment of the museums in Galicia by fulfilling the constitutional mandates and by being in line with the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a standard of technical marking that has a common structure of very diverse institutions. The future law orders all and every one of the typologies that are under the generic concept of "museistic center": the museums themselves, the museum collections and the cultural heritage interpretation centers, which are included for the first time in our legal order. The text defines and limits its functions with a contemporary, plural and integrative perspective; a perspective in which, expressly, the perspective of gender and collectives with greater difficulties of inclusion is taken into account. It addresses aspects related to the organization and comes into regular questions relating to funds, such as allocation, deposits or basic conditions in which conservation or restoration acts must be carried out. This project also collects the necessary conditions for defining, creating and improving museums. It is worth noting that, within these dynamization measures, it focuses on the importance of social participation and private initiative, since museums are opportunities for dialogue with citizens and, therefore, this law believes that they must be empowered to maintain constant dialogue with the public to which they are addressed. Similarly, it takes into account the momentum and the promotion of scientific research, another area that cannot be absent or hidden, since in these centers there is an important study work that facilitates a better understanding of our past and our present. In direct connection, this new legal framework does not forget the pedagogical dimension of these institutions as broadcast and knowledge dissemination agents. There is, of course, also the economic dimension, as museums are important assets capable of boosting the tourist plan, as evidenced by the data we have just seen. In short, the project we have come to present today includes the plural role of museums, a role that is currently not limited to the mere conservation and exhibition of cultural heritage, but takes into account areas such as social, educational, research and economic. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to establishing the legal regime for all museums, this law creates, as a great novelty, the Greek System of Museum Centers; an organizational and functional structure that, with a wide dimension, will allow to efficiently coordinate the cultural resources of the centres that integrate it, and that will, of course, respect its autonomy at all times. This system will consist of an administrative body, the Culture Council itself, which will have leadership and coordination functions and will design and plan the museum policy in Galicia. Secondly, it creates the Council of Museum Centers of Galicia, a council for cooperation between the different entities that provide services in our community. The system will also include the different museums, museum collections and heritage interpretation centers in Galicia. Belonging to this structure will bring together a number of benefits, such as participation in aid lines, priority in access to certain collaborative or formative actions, or participation in cultural and tourist promotion initiatives. Different from the system, but as part of it, it is also planned to create networks of museum centers. The aim of this figure will be to promote cooperation and cross-cutting use of resources. Museums will be able to voluntarily adhere to networks, which will be established in the light of different areas, such as title, thematic content or museological discourse. These are operating subsystems that will operate under criteria of efficiency and constant improvement. All these contents and all these news are the fruit of an open process. From the German Government we wanted the drafting of the text of the law to be participatory. That is why we have created a working group consisting of representatives from various areas of the museum sector. In total, we invite about 50 recognized prestigious entities, both public and private, representatives of very different realities. This process and these entities have contributed to the orientation and consensus of the content of the regulation. Through their approach, we were able to carry out a correct diagnosis of the starting situation and first-hand knowledge of the interests and needs of these centres. It was a very participatory process that led to amendments prior to parliamentary procedure being almost non-existent, to a small number of them. The result of all the approaches made will advance in universal accessibility and equality. The new law presents museums as cultural centres within the reach of society and bets on non-discrimination and taking into account the needs of collectives with greater difficulties of inclusion. Throughout the drafting process, we have responded to many of the approaches that have been made by entities such as the Galician Confederation of Persons with Disabilities or bodies such as the Economic and Social Council. In the same way, this project bets on the implementation of new technologies. The goal is twofold: to facilitate citizen access to the museum heritage and to introduce integrated information, documentation and management systems. Ladies and gentlemen, we're making an important leap. With this bill, the German Government once again expresses its commitment to culture, a commitment that not only aims through an undeniable legislative advance in the area of museums, but also in the budget. Until 2022, we will invest 36 million euros to ensure the functioning of these institutions, these appropriations. This investment represents a 12% increase over the previous year. We are already looking at this amount about 10 million for the programming of the multitude of activities that will take place in its midst; and all this at the doors of Xacobeo 2021, which will be a real dynamizer of cultural consumption and where museums will have a relevant role. Finally, the new law of museums and other museums in Galicia comes to respond to the needs and demands of citizenship in its relationship with museums and to fill the existing normative void with an ambitious, specific and broad-eyed framework. For this reason, I also want to appeal to consensus in such a sensitive area as this, the scope of museums. The text that we are debating today in this Parliament is up to the role of these institutions in our time, in ordering and regulating these resources and in providing them with their own identity. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we have drafted this project, basically technical profile, listening to the sector and the experts, and waiting for the opposition to know how to deal with it in this case. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u4	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u5	The role of defence of amendments to the whole, return and position of the bill. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u6	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. We present this amendment to the whole about the Bill of Museums and other museum centers in Galicia because, although we agree with the need for a law specifically dedicated to museums and this type of centers, this project is not of our liking, since its content does not regulate with the extent and accuracy necessary fundamental aspects of this activity. But well, before we enter the text, we think we should start at the beginning — for a bad start or a bad start — because in March 2019 there was a meeting of the councillor and the Director General of Culture — as the Counsellor has already said — with representatives of 30 Greek institutions — it seems that 50 were invited but only 30 — to advance the process of drafting this law. Until then, nothing to object. At that meeting — especially at work — they heard the first technical approaches by the professionals involved in these museum activities. You said in a press release -- because you were talking about transparency -- that it was about achieving a participatory and transparent process. Of course, we wonder where that transparency is if there isn't — or at least we haven't — any reports or documents on that meeting or about the work of that group. We would like, of course, to have someone explain how many times this group has met, because the fact is that there is no report or conclusions prepared by it or any minutes raised from the sessions, their composition or the reports drawn up... that is, nothing. So it is true that we can question what they say is actually achieved. So, yes, we started wrong and already doubting the imperative necessity of this law. And I say "imperious need" because it seems like it was the way it was sold on its day. But it doesn't seem like it should be so imperious if we don't really know what the opinion of the sector was, of the people involved. By going to the text, from our point of view they are already beginning to go wrong in the main, which is the description of "museum", because for this parliamentary group it is not only an institution dedicated to promotion and cultural development, but its existence is also defined by the dissemination of cultural memory, the promotion of identity and cultural development, yes, but also social development. And they also forget, in our opinion, to clarify what the mission of the museum centers is. They forget that fundamental mission, which is the dissemination of cultural memory. But they don't even define precisely the different types of centers. For example, the article on interpretation centres is totally confusing, when this was one of the basic objectives for which the Board justified this legislative text. It also does not do so with primary aspects, such as museum management, documentary management and the use of information and communication technologies. You just said here that it was one of the important issues, another of the elements that underlined your advice, and we, of course, see that this bill has little to say about ICT. Even less it pushes the promotion of museums to make them real elements of cultural diffusion and social cohesion. But there's more oysters or empty ones. The bill, for example, does not include any obligation or measure on the part of the Galician Union — especially its obligation — for the impulse, encouragement or economic support of museums other than its title or management, nor even for the members of the Galician Museum System. The reality is that it doesn't even cover the obligations of the Autonomic Administration with these centres. It seems that the Galician Union just wanted to add a more legal initiative to the whole of the past legislation. I mean, to advertise your management again. That's what we're talking about perfectly in the press notes, because it's the only thing we know about this process. Those press releases published on this bill, by the way, accumulate a lot of inaccuracies, like, for example, they say, or they say, that this was a pioneering rule in the autonomic field. Most communities in the Spanish state already have similar laws, some elaborated more than 20 years ago. Summer, they have specific laws about museums Castile and León, Castile-A Mancha, Cantabria, Andalusia, Catalonia, Aragon, Euskadi, Madrid, Navarre and Murcia. So we don't understand that as pioneers. Another "information imprecision" of the Galician Union — by taking out a little of an euphemistic term — is given when it tries to explain to the media its projects, and that that "will first legislate the role of museums", when you know that these museums were already regulated in the Law on Cultural Heritage. Despite what is stated in the explanatory statement, this bill, of course, will not provide greater protection to the cultural heritage of what is already developed in that Law 5/2016, of Galicia's cultural heritage, which already regulates museums and museum collections and foresees a regulatory development that essentially contains — although quite confusingly — this bill that we are discussing today. The question is that, although the last third provision of the law in force — since Law 5/2016 — enabled the Council of Galicia for its regulatory development, it was not carried out. But what is also curious is that much of the content collected in the new text, much of the new text, should be the object of regulatory development and not appear here too reflected. I don't know if there's a problem with the regulatory developments that oppose us. In other words, given the content of this text, it would be perfectly useful to reflect in the Law of 4 May of the cultural heritage, in its title VIII, devoted entirely to museums — Articles 111 to 118. You say -- we don't say it -- in the council's own report that joins in this bill: "Title VIII of the Cultural Heritage Act already regulated the so-called visiting collections, while laying the foundations of what is conceived as a network of the Greek Museum System." This bill is not what he talks about for the first time either the German Museum System or the network, but it was already mentioned in that law. You said, "... while laying the foundations of what is conceived as a network of the Welsh Museum System to integrate all those museums and visiting collections that are found in the territory of the autonomous community." But, continuing with Law 5/2016, this text is drawn up with such a lack of attention that it is not coordinated with it in several respects. For example, the archaeological finding deposit scheme is not collected, when in article 99 of the aforementioned law we are talking about casual findings indicating that they can be delivered to a public museum. It is also surprising that references to the museums of the Heritage Law, as if museums were not part of the cultural heritage, given that they are transmitters and depositors of the collective memory, are eliminated in the derogatory provision. Among the shortcomings of this text is especially serious also the lack of references to the planning of museum staff and museum centers and the setting of the functions of each job in the different functional areas that are envisaged. It is also not acceptable for it to be legislated that the leadership functions of museums of ownership or self-management may be assumed by the mid-level scale of museums, when there is a higher scale. It does not seem to be acceptable either to the desire to introduce and control the Council of Galicia in the autonomy of the other public administrations that appears in this bill. This same willingness to dominate the system by the Galician Board was also appreciated in Article 10, which regulates the composition of the Council of Museums of Galicia, where all members are appointed by the head of the council and their election is somewhat arbitrary. And at this last point, we wanted to stop a little bit, because, of course, from our point of view, what is entirely unacceptable is that the Galician Council of Culture has absolutely no presence in this bill. It is not in the relationship of bodies and entities which, according to the Council of Culture, constituted a working group or were invited to draw up this text. Nor is it expected that the Galician Culture Council will be part of the Galician Museum Centres Council. He doesn't show up, he doesn't show up ex-profess. By the way, it is not expected that the municipalities, represented by the Galician Federation of Municipalities, are part of that council, given that many museums in our country are of municipal ownership. But following the Galeg Culture Council, it seems to us to be intolerable, of course, that the Galician Council did not ask it to issue a report on this bill, which, in addition, confirmed its president last week. Mrs Rosario Álvarez confirmed that, indeed, no report had been requested on this project. Of course, since the Galician Council of Culture has as its functions to investigate and evaluate the cultural needs of the people of Galicia by trying to make the most valuable products available to all Galician citizenship, both in their own culture and universal culture, to analyze those issues that refer to the Greek cultural heritage in their various facets and levels, in view of their preservation, their study, their valorization and dissemination, and to advise the public authorities of the autonomous community, especially the Galician Union, we believe that it is the institution that could best inform and correct this bill, max when it has a section of work specializing in heritage and cultural goods. And, of course, he has a lot of experience in studying museums. Something that also surprises us is the elimination of an express reference to continuity in the recognition of the competence of the Galego People's Museum to act as a synthesis center of all museums and collections, both public and private, integrated into the Greek system of museums dedicated to the study, promotion and dissemination of Galician historical and anthropological heritage, as contained in Decree 111/1993 of 22 May of the Council of Culture and Youth. We also know that it was the Museum of the Galician People that he had to request later his inclusion. For all these reasons, of course, we consider this bill unacceptable, which was not born — or does not seem to us to be born — to legislate the centres which should be guaranteed by our collective, cultural and social memory, but it was, as I said, a more propaganda act to put crosses in the excellence of works done, but it does not intend to clarify, manage, organize and protect our museum heritage. For all this, we logically demand the return of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u7	Thank you, Mrs Varela. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] You now have the floor to Mrs. Complaines Zas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u8	Good morning, gentlemen. Since the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group we had hoped that, after so many years of promising and advancing this law of museums and other museums in Galicia, the Government of the People's Party would bring us a truly pioneer legal framework, adjusted to the most innovative currents in the science of the museumology. We trusted in their ability to come up with a document that finally established the foundations of a living and truly inclusive museum network. But I must anticipate since reading his preliminary draft law has led to our disappointment that we cannot regard it as a sufficient legal framework and also to the opportunities of our immense museum heritage. That's why we're asking for your return. We do it, to see, for two great reasons of weight, one meets the shape and the other meets its background, which I will begin to explain briefly. As far as form is concerned, it must be pointed out that in democracy the content of legislative projects is as important as the procedure of their processing. In this process, if something has not been lost — or at least so they have come to understand it — it was a lack of time or improvisation that prevented a high level of consultation and specialized contrast that a legal framework of these characteristics needs. That's why it's always unacceptable, strong and inappropriate for a government — when it's not the first time they've tried to legislate to the shortcut — that once again the Galician Board of Directors has made clear fundamental consultative bodies, such as the Galician Council of Culture — of course, referred to in the Budget Project, with which we've been working these days, as the high-level board of the Galician Union, the university or academies, as well as other institutions and entities, to speak through the corresponding reports on this preliminary draft museum law and other museum centres in Galicia, which is a practice that we see to be a good test and guarantee of democratic maturity. It must be noted that Article 32 of the Statute of Self-Government places the Galician Culture Council as the highest body for consulting and consulting the public authorities of the Autonomous Community in the field of culture and heritage. We would like to highlight some justified reason for such absence, but the recent presence of the president of the Galician Culture Council in Commission 3 has ratified the worst agoure: the Galician Council did not request the report from the Galician Council of Culture. We regret this deep disillusionment — when I do not exercise silence — of a high institution with high statutory responsibility. The Galician Council of Culture Act states in its Title II, concerning competences, which are the functions of this statutory institution to consider how many matters refer to the cultural heritage, to promote the language and culture of the Greek people, to investigate and evaluate the cultural needs of the Greek people, to advise and consult the powers of the Autonomous Community where necessary for the defence and promotion of the cultural values of the Greek people and to raise to the powers of the Autonomous Community reports and proposals for the defence and promotion of the cultural values of the Greek people. It is equally surprising that neither one of the other entities mentioned above, such as the Royal Galaga Academy of Fine Arts or the universities, collected in the Galician Cultural Heritage Act — in particular in Article 7 — as advisory and advisory bodies in this area. It should be borne in mind that this law is the direct history of the draft law of museums and other museums in Galicia that the Government now presents to us. None of these institutions and entities also participated in the working group set up by the Council of Culture and Tourism at that time, with which the Council of Galicia spoke in the drafting of the text, according to the information reached in memory on the allegations presented to the draft law. As in so many times, this is again a perverse practice of end-of-life politics. We make that we offer a democratic menu, well-customed of headlines and administrative literature at their point, but then there are no options to choose who to consult, because their kitchen is that of the single command, a sad definition of democracy and child respect for the Greek cultural values. On the other hand, and also in relation to due transparency and participation in the legislative process, it is highly questionable that the public exposure period coincided with the summer months — from July 10, 2019 to August 1, of the same year — which obviously makes it difficult ––we know it well–– – to present the arrivals, and which was evidenced that only three claims were collected, as stated in the above-mentioned memory. As for the background or the concrete content collected in the articulate of this bill, since the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego we want to make the following considerations, which, in our view, support the present amendment of return. First of all, the bill collects a conservative and limited definition and consideration of museums and museums, even outdated, because it does not take into account the recommendations made by the ICOM at the 139th meeting of its board of directors, developed in July 2019 in Paris or the new trends in the thought of museumology – – – by the way, a word that has little impact on this preliminary draft law –, beginning with social museum, aimed at enhancing the social function of museums as tools for the development of communities and social transformation. Even the word "museology" – – I insist –, with all that it means as the science of the management of the museum, is merely reflected in this document; which, in some ways, also expresses the delay in the empowerment of as attractive natural and tourist resource as is the museum and the professionalization of staff: the museumologist or museumologist. In fact, this preliminary draft maintains the definition of "museum" collected in Galician Cultural Heritage Act of 2016, a new proof of the anachronic basis that supports this legislative support. Secondly, it is particularly chaotic that the traces that make up the museums are not included in their own definition in Article 3 and should be expected to arrive at Article 13 — as the Economic and Social Council has also observed in its report. The same is true of museum collections and interpretation centers. Thirdly, although UNESCO's recommendations on the protection and promotion of museums and their collections are cited in the explanatory statement, they are not later taken into account in the articulate. Thus, the bill does not collect the necessary collaboration between museums and civil society — such as development and social transformation tools — nor the adoption of codes of ethics and good practice, nor the mechanisms of cooperation between museums and other institutions related to culture, heritage and education. And it even contradicts the articles of the 2016 Cultural Heritage Act itself, such as, for example, Article 6, which alludes to collaboration with the Catholic Church, who owns — well we know — an important cultural legacy, subject on occasion to rules of closure that hide it and of what actually ignores its museum value. Fourthly, it excludes from this legal document the intangible cultural heritage and industrial heritage — also deep-rooted and encouragement in our culture — as defined in Galicia's Cultural Heritage Act. And the historical memory is also openly excluded. Fifthly, we understand that this is a very ambitious, unclear bill in many respects, even – and it must also be said – disorderly and to some extent chaotic in its formulation – – as the Economic and Social Council also points out in its report – that it violates a basic standard of any legal document and any administrative procedure, as is the importance of the ease of understanding for compliance. Sixthly, this draft museum law does not collect the competences of the Autonomous Community in relation to museums and other museums. Nor does it raise the general criteria that public policies in this area should follow, nor the clarification of those competences and obligations that correspond to other levels of the Administration – – which also have them –, as is the case with the municipalities and provincial deputies, which, moreover, are holders of some of these spaces, or other museum funds belonging to the military heritage, port, etc. To speak, as it is collected in the articulation, coordination and cooperation between administrations without clarifying competences or drawing up formulas to achieve these objectives means only a declaration of intent, but it was necessary to move forward. In seventh place, this bill waives clearly regulating museums or museum collections that are held by institutions such as the Church or the Army, as well as the obligations that these have in order to guarantee – among other issues – the right of access, not only for interested visitors, but also for investigators, and it leaves in their hands the aforementioned conditions beyond the principle of non-discrimination, which shows little ambition. From this legislative framework, it is necessary to open channels for the management of this heritage from optional museum optics, which affect security, conservation, documentation, study, digitisation — ultimately disclosure — which include, in addition, this legislative and practical interaction, the Cultural Heritage Prosecutor's Office and the police specialized in crimes against it, among other departments. In the eighth place, we also understand that it is obvious in this text — even in the exhibition of motives — that the historical tradition of Welshism in museum matter, as well as the national identity of Galicia, when proposing new categories, such as that of "museums of national interest", understood as the one that identifies spaces that exceed its framework and have a special meaning for Galician cultural heritage — something that proves immaturity in a matter that has already been dealt with at the Galego Studies Seminar itself almost a century ago. In this regard, it should be clear that the primary idea of empowerment of the Museum of the Galician People as the National Museum of Galicia is similar to that of Wales, Cardiff, or the National Museum of Scotland. In the ninth place, it could be added to this bill for the empowerment of museum centers, with everything that involves their management, those significant collections of the same administrations, capital councils, deputies, Parliament itself, the board of Galicia, universities, etc., as a way of documenting and disseminating the origins and ends of this heritage. And in the tenth and last place, with regard to the Greek System of Museum Centers — which constitutes the central element of the bill — it should be remembered that it had already appeared previously collected in the Galician Cultural Heritage Act — in article 114 in particular — without having been developed for the last four years since its entry into force. Title II is the most chaotic part of the bill, especially with regard to the management of its content and the rights and obligations of the centres integrated into the Galician System of Museum Centers. In this sense, the text lacks concreteness in fundamental aspects for its application, such as the necessary definition of the content of the museological plan, the annual programming of activities, the management memory, the organisation of staff, as well as the functions of management. With regard to the Council of Museums of Galicia, the bill merely gives representation to the Government of Galicia and to the persons appointed by it, and excludes from other institutions such as the Parliament of Galicia, the Fegamp or, as otherwise, the Council of Galician Culture. Finally, the draft law does not include a specific paragraph aimed at regulating the work of inspection, as a mechanism to ensure strict compliance with the obligations laid down in the standard. As stated above, the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group considers this amendment to be sufficiently justified to the entire Bill of Museums and other Museum Centers of Galicia and calls for the return to the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Complaints. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the non-amendant parliamentary group, the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Ferro Iglesias has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u10	President, Bureau members, ladies and gentlemen, very good morning to all. First of all, I would like to congratulate the Government and, by extension, the Councillor of Culture on this new law, a dialogue and consensus law. We want it to be a law of the future and that's why we're going to take your contributions and partial amendments very seriously. With this law, Galicia will be one of the Spanish autonomys that will have a specific museum law. We won't be the first, right, but we'll try to be the strictest and most effective with this technical, modern law, and, yes, adapted to the present and future reality of our museums. I assure you that we have put on and will continue to put forth every effort to make it a participatory law, because we understand that a law of protection of our culture and our traditions cannot separate us. That's why I know we will overcome political discrepancies and reach many points of encounter. Galicia needed a standard that would regulate the museum sector flexibly and look to the future, that would provide legal security and enhance the activity developed in the museum environment, and that it would take into account the plural dimension of its role within modern and democratic society. As you know, our community has exclusive competence in heritage matters. The first museum regulation is a decree of the year 1986. Later, in 1995 the Galician Heritage Act regulates the area of museum in Title V. This law was also repealed by a new law of 2016, which deals with Title VIII on museums. Now we'll have a specific and own law for the museums. The future law will be the first specific regulation that will regulate this matter in our community and address globally the challenges facing these institutions in the twenty-first century as well as first-level cultural services within the reach of society as a whole, both Greek and foreign. In addition, it incorporates the approaches of different groups and institutions. This is a clearly technical law that is born with the aim of structuring the internal functioning of the ninety-four museum institutions registered in our community, including public and private centres. This is the first law of this issue in our sphere. It is the law that was lacking in the normative articulation of reference cultural institutions — that is, of our archives, libraries and museums —: the Library Law of the year 2012, the Archives and Museums Law of the year 2014 and now, to finish the cycle, the Museum Law. During the period of allegations and reports of the future law, improvements were included aimed at integrating the gender perspective of these appropriations and respect for plurality, participation and collaboration of different social agents, and also making these centres fully accessible. In this way, this regulation meets the considerations expressed by the Galician Confederation of Persons with Disabilities and the Economic and Social Council. [[Cogami]] It presents museums as cultural centres within reach of society, in conditions of equality and non-discrimination, and considers, in addition, the needs of collectives with greater difficulties of social inclusion. Even so, it is apostatized by the implementation of new technologies in these appropriations with a double objective of facilitating citizenship access to the museum heritage but also in order to introduce integrated information, documentation and management systems that improve the functioning of these centres. The direct participation of the sector was carried out, as the advisor said, through a working group formed by March 2019. In this working group, ladies and gentlemen, there were members of the Galician Culture Council. This working group has allowed professionals of recognized prestige to participate in the drafting phase of the text and has served to take the momentum of the situation and the interests of the sector in our community, thus achieving a better orientation of its contents. So, the objective of this law is to promote the Greek museums as reference assets in the social, scientific, educational and also economic plans. To this end, the Board — also reminded the Councillor — will invest EUR 36 million up to 2022 to ensure the operation of these appropriations. Within that amount, some 10 million will be included for the programming of activities of the Greek museums. The future law has as its object the regulation of the legal regime of museums, museum collections and, as you know, for the first time, of the centres of interpretation of Galicia's cultural heritage, as well as the establishment of a Greek System of Museum Centres to improve organizationally and functionally the centres that will integrate the said system. This system will be structured around an administrative body of leadership and coordination, a consultative body called the Council of Museum Centers of Galicia, and includes all museums, museum collections and interpretation centres that integrate into this system. The project defines each of the typologies that integrate the broader and generic concept of "museistic center", and defines the conditions necessary for its creation, as well as organizational and management aspects. In addition, it regulates a whole series of dynamizing measures in the museum area and finally describes and also sets the applicable sanctioning regime. The basic organization of museums is determined, which will include the existence of a governing body and the following basic functional areas, which will develop their activities through the necessary internal coordination. I mean the area of documentation, conservation and research, the area of dissemination and communication, and finally the area of administration. With regard to sponsorship, it is stated that the Autonomic Administration will actively promote sponsorship actions directed at the support of museum centres, as well as the development of its projects. With regard to social participation, public administrations will encourage the creation and promotion of the work of associations of friends from museums and other Greek museums in order to enhance and disseminate their role in society and facilitate their participation in these institutions. A regulation is made according to the role of museums in our time by expressly integrating their social, pedagogical, research and economic function. And I'm done. Finally, this bill, which expresses the commitment of the Greek public authorities to the fulfilment of constitutional mandates and the achievement of a system of museum centres specific to our autonomous community, presents the museum centres with the contemporary perspective that existes the present times: centres with a broad, plural and inclusive function within a society also plural and democratic; centres that, beyond the classical cultural aspect, are powerful economic and social assets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u11	Thank you, Mr. Iron. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica of amending groups. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, you have the floor to Mrs. Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u12	Thank you, President. As we have already said, from our point of view and for this Socialist Parliamentary Group, this bill is drafted with a certain disillusionment, which also causes serious confusion which can even lead to legal defence. The very organization of some of the titles and chapters that structure this rule leads to confusion. In addition, I assure you that, as drafted, it is very complicated, even impossible, a new clear wording of concepts. We thought, rather, I'd deserve a complete drafting from the beginning. Many articles related to the structure, obligations, operation and management of museums, funds and collections generate doubts as to whether they apply to all museums or only to members of the Welsh Museum System. The lack of attention in writing even leads to infringements of the non-compliance of actions that are only mandatory for museums integrated into the said system, when the inspection is carried out over all centres. We believe that this text should start again as should be done, with a well-developed text, the result of a collective work of many entities and experts, and, of course, with the relevant and necessary reports — including that of the Galician Council of Culture —. We note that in the two short periods of public exposure for the presentation of suggestions on the Galician Board's Transparency Portal only four approaches were presented, a fairly small balance when it directly affects 115 entities, 115 entities that will be directly affected by this bill and those that are not aware of any of the documents submitted. Of course, we can conclude from this that there doesn't seem to have been a great spread or there was too much interest in citizenship by this bill, something that contrasts with the justification of this law by the Government itself, which said it was justified by the demands of the sector and also of citizenship. If that is the case, we, as you have said, have doubted that a genuine process of participation on the part of the Galician Union has been advocated. I continue to insist that we have not received any report, no statement, no record of the various meetings of participation in which it seems that this project was being developed and whether they knew the interests of the institutions or the people affected by this law. Nor does it tell us — as it would be most logical and reasonable — that the text of the preliminary draft had been moved to museums and museums in Galicia, for example those under the dependence of local administrations. It can't stand us. If that's the case, fine. But it's not up to us. For all this, we, of course, insist that this process of processing the Galician Museums and Museums Law Project should be paralysed to begin again if it is considered appropriate, but whenever it is done with continuous counseling of the people and expert institutions, which are the first interested. We too, but they're the first ones interested in the text being as best as possible. We think that you have too many evasive, too empty, and that, to present this bill, it would certainly serve, as we said in the first round of interventions, a regulatory development of Title VIII of the Cultural Heritage Act. That's our opinion. Obviously, the People's Group will decide no. We've been waiting for the answer. But, of course, we understand that this text can be very improved. See if it's also understood this way later, in the process of defending partial amendments, because we understand that the future drafting of this law could be greatly improved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Varela. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, you have the floor of Mrs. Complaines.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u14	Good day again. Well, the counselor's words referred to a first text. Obviously, that is undeniable, it is unquestionable, it is a necessary text. The first drafting, with this framework of law for the field of museumology, is necessary. It's irrefutable, indeed. Objectivity returns to first text. But from there on, I think that, with our intervention, they were more than questioned and sufficiently demonstrated some other characteristics that the counselor has attached to this rule. The "participative text" and "consensual" must continue to question it. In fact, in his speech, there was no explicit mention of who that work table was -- so let's say -- prior to the drafting of this document. Of course, our words, as we always say, do not correspond only to our will or to our private and personal reading, but are always contrasted with the sectors and representatives, in this case, to the field of museumology. And they weren't, they weren't. Our arrivals here presented and collected in the amendment evidently come from them and from them. Nor is it proved to be ambitious text. You were talking about the virtuous circle, and we suppose it refers to the virtuous circle of success. But we must be careful because, if we do not measure it properly and have not worked enough — and we understand that this law, despite the time it has passed, is not — we can move on to the vicious circle of failure. We really don't want it to be a law for failure in the Galician Nationalist Block at all. That's why we ask him to come back to work with other bases and really supported in a much wider, open and truly participatory contrast. You also said that it represents modern Galicia. Well, for us, a technical text like this really hurts to represent modern Galicia in taking into account everything that it represents and everything that has been and how we have come here, because a technical text runs certain risks — which we think is evidenced here — as it forgets the fundamental, that it is the humanization of values that approach museums, museums as living beings not as mere spaces, passive continents, but as generators of cultural life and also of formation, of the formation of society. Many concepts are missing here for different approaches to the museums that Greek culture offers: megalitism, castrex culture, Romanization, of course also romantic art — fundamental —, the solemn period, etc. I mean, there really is a whole categorization of that wealth that our museum network offers and why we understand we have to bet. We are surprised — we insist again — that fundamental reports such as that of the Galician Council of Culture are being made. And we think that it was also very representative, very significant — and in this case so transparent — the writing that we came to us from the Sponsored Association of the Museum of the Galician People registered in this House, in which we are asked to incorporate an amendment that is fundamental, a transitional provision that is fundamental, in the sense that we do something that we really miss and that we understand there is no reason to avoid it: a reference to the continuity of recognition to the Museum of the Galician People — their own terminology well indicates it — of competence to act as a synthesis center of all public and private museums and collections integrated into the Greek system of museums dedicated to the study, promotion and dissemination of Galician historical and anthropological heritage. And we expect it to be so, because it is really inexplicable this lack of consideration towards what it represents, as the Museum of the Galician People, this center. In the same way, we are also surprised at the lack of compliance with the word given to the Museum of the Galician People itself at the moment when they are assuming something fundamental, as are the works of enlargement. We know of the collaboration of the Council of Culture, but we also know of the insufficiency and, above all, of the failure of the word given at the time to the Museum of the Galician People to assume those works that are fundamental. When we talk about commitment to culture, as you have said here — which we obviously do not doubt, but we understand that it is insufficient and that it still needs to take steps forward — we understand that it is concrete in the budgets. And here we hear — like many other times — many figures, but indeed, in the analysis we made of the budgets, they do not appear so represented. Museums are not especially an object of special attention or gravity in the budgeting of this council. And I didn't want to forget that we have large museums that are completely forgotten and abandoned, such as the Carlos Maside Museum or other museums that seem to have a minor relevance to being popularly built, such as the Olympian List Ethnographic Museum, in Oseira, that we are at severe risk of losing, knowing that there is a very important cultural heritage there.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u15	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u16	So please review this preliminary draft again and of course we will be able to speak again asking for attention to the partial amendments we have tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Complaints. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] [[Pause.]] We continue the debate on legislative texts. Debates of the entire Galician Contaminated Waste and Soil Project
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u18	Amendments have been tabled to the entire Socialist Parliamentary Group and to the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block. For the introduction of the bill, Mrs. Ánggeles Vázquez Mejuto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u19	Thank you, President. Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, let us bring to this House today the project of what will be the future Waste and Contaminated Lands Act of Galicia, a text that is supposed to fulfill our commitment to Galicia, to the Green Galicia, to the future Galicia, to the sustainable Galicia, to the resilient Galicia, to the Galicia that fights climate change. So we started updating and adapting the law after twelve years in which everything changed, both how to consume and how to generate waste and how to manage it. What we want is to provide Galicia with a new legal framework adapted to Community legislation, which is complete, clear and legally safe. We are aware of the need to adapt legislation to the changing model that is being experimented, a system that walks towards a circular economy and is called to be the only model of the future possible in Galicia. In fact, in the last decade Galicia has always been close to and in the vanguard of European waste planning. Thus, in 2010 we designed the Galician Urban Waste Management Plan, which allowed our community to be able to move towards a new design of waste policies. In 2016 we approved the Industrial Waste Plan of Galicia, the PRIGA. He will be alive until 2022 and will allow them to assess how these wastes are being managed and whether his generation is becoming independent of economic growth. I have to inform you that you will soon see the first PRIGA report, which analyses from 2016 to 2018 — the latest data we have on 2018 — and in which we have authorized a total of 750 plants. From 2016 to 2018 industrial waste decreased by 8.5%. We are destined for recycling and recovery of a total of 82% of Galicia's industrial waste, and its disposal, 18%. This means that we not only plan the results, but we are aware of the results, which are the ones that are now transcending and that we will soon introduce: in 2016, 3 million tons of industrial waste; in 2018, 2.8 million tons — of which recycling is destined to 82% —; in 2019 we have two milestones, two important keys: the first is that we gave green light to the Strategy of Climate Change and Energy 2050 and the second is that we approve the Welsh Strategy of the circular economy 2030, with the objective of moving from a linear economy to a circular economy — in which the lines of waste policies are defined in the most relevant sectors and all its inspiring principles have been added to this bill. Now we want to move ahead firmly in a modern and effective waste management. That's why we are faced with a very necessary law for our autonomous community, with which we advance the Central Government's approval of state legislation, which had to be already operational in July 2020 and which today has only one joint text. So we're closing, from Galicia, the circle of necessary tools and putting ourselves at the head of Europe in a circular economy. In short, this is a law that stands out for being more complete and technically appropriate to give real and necessary answers to the activity in Galicia. We simplify the administrative burden, which is fundamental, we improve control but also manage administrative procedures and bet on green employment. One of the guiding principles of the law is hierarchy in waste management, and it focuses especially on the first step, which is fundamental: the prevention of these wastes. The law does not only make European and national objectives its own, but in some cases, such as the reduction of waste we produce, we advance ourselves in five years — from 2030 to 2025 — with a view to reducing them by 15% on the data we have of the year 2010. In addition, in Galicia we mark ourselves as a target to achieve in 2021 that more than 50% of textile waste, as well as electrical appliances and furniture, are introduced into the repair chain for reuse — a percentage that will be 55% for the year 2025 and 60% for the year 2030. In this same line, the text also includes the establishment of centres specialized in the repair of waste reuse, especially waste from electrical, electronic, textile and furniture appliances. In fact, we've already had some program, some pilot plan, like what we inaugurated in the year 2019 in Valga Town Hall. The new text envisages the progressive increase in the re-use or material recovery of non-hazardous wastes of construction as well as demolition, up to 75% in 2025 — compared to 70% proposed by the State. It also sets recycling targets by boosting the recycling of single-use packaging, with the goal of being able in the year 2025 to recycle up to 65% of these, and reaching 70% on the horizon of the year 2030. As regards the shipment of waste to landfills — as well as another European target — it states that only 10% of the waste generated to landfills can be shipped. That's what we call "zero technical truth." With regard to this point, I would like to remind you that since 2009 the German Government has put an end to the landfills and we are moving towards a proper management of our waste. We ended up with the dump model that meant depositing the garbage directly on the territory and without control and security measures. And in 2013 we closed the last unauthorized municipal dump existing in Galicia. Even so, since April 2009 we have eliminated more than a thousand points of uncontrolled dumping throughout Galicia. Between this year and last year, it was more than 200 of the spills that we eliminated. The future law also lays the groundwork for plants to reach this technical vertigo in 2035; that is to say, lead to the single and exclusively waste dump that we are not able to deal with on any of the pathways, a goal that Sogama is about to fulfill this same year. That means we're moving ahead with the European guidelines for fifteen years. I'll give you an example. The direct entry of waste into the Areosa landfill — which is Sogama’s — dropped from 209,000 tons in 2018 to 40,679 tons in 2019 —a transcendental step towards that goal. The future waste law has as one of its basic pillars collaboration, support and coordination with the municipalities, as it could not be otherwise. We recognize their potential, and we also know their problem. But, on the other hand, we are aware of their abilities so that we all engage in a common objective and therefore that the data we draw to public light are met everywhere. One of the main points of collaboration of the Union is the local authorities, which will continue to do, as is their obligation, the management of bioresidues, as municipalities must establish separate collection from the year 2023. They know that the articulated text of the Central Government here makes a separation between municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants and more than 5,000 inhabitants, so that the municipalities of more than 5,000 inhabitants begin their management from the year 2021. Galicia opts for all the municipalities, both of the least and of the most inhabitants, to make this collection separate from the year 2023. We are aware of this goal, so in the budgets of the year 2021 we reserve a total of 25 million euros for the construction of three bioresidue plants. The first will be in Vilanova de Arousa and will serve a total of 25 municipalities. It is, of course, added to the opening during this year established in the municipality of Cerceda. In fact, last week we auctioned the project of Vilanova de Arousa. It's a basic project. It will be a pioneering and modern plant in the use of efficient technologies, and it will facilitate the creation of 30 jobs, between direct and indirect. With regard to the municipal area, it should be recalled that the municipalities should also implement the collection of textile and hazardous waste from domestic origin one year later — before December 31, 2024 —. Another of the basic objectives of this text is to drastically reduce the consumption of plastics from one use. Human action is plasticizing the planet, particularly the marine environment, so we have to get the life of plastics to circulate. That's why the law prohibits the free delivery of plastic bags and the sale of single-use plastic vases. And they do it for two main reasons: they are products that demand a lot of energy for an excessively short useful period and, when they come into contact with the ecosystem -- in the seas, for example -- they produce damage and consequences that are devastating. We must remember that 80% of marine waste comes from the land and that one of the most abundant waste in the seas is plastic. That's why we must fight to avoid the plasticization of the planet and, above all, the plasticification of our seas. Braking food waste is another of the evasive measures that the German Government wants to respond to the entry into force of this new normative text. In this sense, I would like to remind you that about a third of the world's foods are lost or wasted, which amounts to 1,300 million tons a year. We must reduce food loss, not only for food, but also for saving on resources, both those needed to produce them and those needed to manage them later as waste. Besides, as citizens we must be more responsible for our buying habits. To be more attentive to what we should discard or to what we should take advantage of, as 42% of food waste is generated in our homes. To achieve this food waste reduction target, the law states that in 2025 we have to reduce by 30% the amount of food waste that we generate over the year 2010, a percentage that takes 50% five years later, in the year 2030. In order to achieve this, catering holders will be obliged to deliver, if the customer so requests, the spare portions of food not consumed on their own premises. And they should do it in compostable containers at 50%, with biodegradable material, never in single-use plastic materials. In addition, we will promote a code of good practice in relation to food surpluses; that is, a social pact, involving all the agents involved in the Horeca channel, to mitigate the production of food waste. So, and for all this, a lot of training and a lot of environmental education is needed, because in this way we will enable the consumption of raw materials and products to take place from an increasingly responsible perspective. In fact, this law bets on pushing younger people to act as catalysts for a better future. It's going to be their future, what belongs to them, but also what they deserve. Finally, the text also makes a special bet on a sustainable and environmentally friendly administration. For this purpose, it includes numerous measures, including the use of renewable energy in the administration and the impulse of the so-called 'green public contract'. But this law not only deals with waste and its management, it focuses on the prevention of contaminated soils. It is established that soils must retain their natural functions at its maximum level, and recover using the best available techniques and always prioritising on-site recovery treatments. What we want is to promote better recognition and control of the quality of our soils. To achieve this, the creation of a complete inventory of soils will be established through the Sun Quality Register. This is complemented by a sanctioning regime that defines new sanctions for contaminated soils, with a maximum amount that can reach 1.7 million euros in the case of very serious sanctions. Finally, we are faced with an essential law for Galicia that will allow us to continue working towards a more sustainable future. It is a text with which Galicia advances to state legislation, which currently simply consists of an articulated text which has not yet obtained the visa and pleasure, or the green light, of the Council of Ministers to be referred to Congress. Suppose a bet determined by the transformation of Galician society into a committed model of different production and consumption, and that seeks to achieve a resilient Galicia that works to reduce climate change...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u20	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u21	...and to gather the efforts of the Government of Greece to meet the sustainable development goals in which the 2030 Agenda is being implemented. It is therefore a law that responds to environmental, social and economic challenges, and that will enable Galicia to become a community adapted to the changes and challenges facing us in the future. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u22	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The role of defence of amendments to the whole and position of the bill. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, you have the floor to Mrs. Castro Rey.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u23	Thank you, President. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we are considering the return of this text from Galicia's Bill of Waste and Contaminated Lands because, although we are defending the need for a legal amendment to the Waste Act of 2008, which is currently in force, we believe that this new text should be much more ambitious. This text is in the middle of what we had and the progress in European postulates in dealing with waste management, as I shall develop below. Without going into assessing the point changes of its articulation — because this is not the moment — the fundamental and weightier reasons for proposing our refund amendment are, on the one hand, the practical lack of regulation of plastics — because they must be integrated here and should not be left for specific regulation because they are present in most of the products, and on the other hand, the difference in the concept of waste management, since from the Government of the Union we continue to tend to centralized management and we advocate more for proximity management. For us Socialists, the first objective of any waste policy must be to minimize the negative effects of waste generation, both on human health and on the environment. Even so, and in line with the principles governing the circular economy, we understand that this policy must also have an object, on the one hand, to make efficient use of resources, with a determined strategic commitment from the Government of Galicia, good coordination with the rest of the public bodies — and I refer to the councils and the four deputies — as well as the involvement and commitment of all economic and social agents, and essentially also the involvement of citizenship. So there are four actions that we understand as fundamental: political will, coordination, consensus and awareness of citizenship. A regulation that leads us to a proper management of waste prevents them from ending in the marine environment, and policies that prevent the deposit of biodegradable waste in landfills will help reduce greenhouse gas emissions. So for us, a new waste law in Galicia must have four main objectives: to set the principles of the circular economy in terms of waste, to contribute to the fight against climate change, to protect our marine environment and to contribute to the creation and consolidation of jobs in the waste management sector. And after these lines are a little more generic and I'm focusing a little bit on the articulate of this bill, we must not forget that European environmental legislation is very dynamic and is constantly moving forward. So the delay that led to the processing of this bill — which started almost three years ago — has caused, among other things, that this bill does not appear in line with current European policies on waste management. And I refer to European Directive 2019/904 of 5 June 2019 on the reduction of the impact of certain plastic products on the environment. On the contrary, if there appears the preliminary draft law that is being dealt with in the Congress of Deputies. At this point, we cannot understand a waste management regulation that leaves out the new requirements regarding the management of plastic use. Plastic, as we know, is a material that is very present in our lives, which has beneficial effects — such as food safety or transport ease — but which also presents many and serious environmental problems, as it is a material that is fragmented into many particles and which deteriorates very slowly. The European Union has set out a clear strategy to move towards a more circular plastic sector and, above all, to fight against marine pollution from these plastics. This is one of the main reasons for our amendment, because we do not understand how this European regulation is not included in this management; and above all, in terms of Galicia, a place where we have great marine wealth and where it affects much more of this problem. Marine animals are ingesting a lot of microplastics. And in addition, by transferring into the food chain, this causes them to end up in our dishes, also affecting human health. On the other hand, there is also the waste accumulated on the beaches, which directly affects the tourist sector and which also costs the Administration in cleaning work — among many of the things we already know about plastics—. On the other hand, according to data from the 2016-2022 Framework State Waste Management Plan, it is established that selective collection and differentiated treatment of organic matter of domestic origin implies 42% of municipal competition waste, so we understand that deadlines should be cut and set as an objective, both for smaller and larger municipalities, the separation of bioresidues before December 31, 2021, thus adapting to our territorial reality. Because you have to combine different formulas, those that can be the most suitable at each place — some places can be composting or others can be the collected door-to-door, and apply above all and essentially the guiding principle that those who pollute pay. With regard to local authorities, this law should require greater inter-administrative coordination, regulate mechanisms to achieve sufficient funding and enable municipalities to participate in autonomic plans, taking into account the municipalities and their specialties for their drafting. On the other hand, in relation to the waste management model, we reject the concentration model, the Sogama model, which is still present in this bill. We choose – – always without prejudice to the application of the management hierarchy, which must prevail – by a model of adequacy and proximity. We bet on the creation of a network for waste recovery for the remaining fraction, as well as for energy recovery and the use or treatment of rejection; a network that allows waste recovery and, in case it is not possible, its disposal in more appropriate and nearby facilities, which provide service to a specific territorial area and which use appropriate technologies and means in each case to ensure a high level of protection for public health and the environment. We consider it more appropriate to assemble a given territorial scope to achieve a better economies of scale, without excluding, for specific areas, the bet on smaller and local or comarcal facilities distributed across the territory. On the other hand, they would also help generate jobs in these different territories. And we reject the incineration by the environmental impact that it produces as a solution. We understand that prevention is fundamental. Within an efficient waste policy, prevention measures are essential by including concrete and quantifiable targets for the prevention of waste generation, which I believe could be more ambitious in this law and have a greater tax burden. It has to be done very well in reducing packaging by promoting the use of drinking water sources and reusable packaging, especially in sectors such as accommodation or catering. Specific articles should be included in which prevention measures are collected, which appear in the directive mentioned above, on the promotion of sustainable production and consumption models, on the design of products which are efficient and durable in terms of useful life, as well as on the reduction of the generation of waste in the industrial sector, on mineral extraction or on construction, by taking into account the best available techniques. As far as environmental taxation is concerned, it is necessary by establishing tax figures that have to constitute a complementary economic instrument to combine environmental protection and defence, which, although they are certainly not politically profitable at first, if they are necessary to stimulate and encourage more respectful behaviors with the natural environment and can be combined with other figures, such as subsidies or tax exemptions for private companies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u24	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u25	...that they meet certain environmental objectives. It is also necessary to increase transparency in waste management. A basic principle in this sense must be transparency towards citizenship. The citizenry has to know and receive clearly and disaggregated what it pays for and why it does it. And it has to be rewarded with its own effort towards a positive, supportive and environmentally friendly attitude. For this purpose, all concepts and services, which in each case include public prices, rates or rates of collection and treatment of waste, should be shaped. With regard to the involvement of the councils and the citizenship, the ruling of the Economic and Social Council accompanying this draft law criticised in its general considerations, on the one hand, the lack of real measures for environmental adequacy and training, the lack of coordination with other autonomous communities, the insufficient funding of the councils or the lack of ambition in the administration's obligations to ensure access to information. In addition, I also criticized the fact that it was not easy for municipalities to participate in the planning process. This law therefore needs to also focus on aspects such as the need to share citizenship in this work through the creation of awareness-raising campaigns for integration into programmes which are established, for example, for the protection of the marine environment or for water. It is also necessary to improve information available to citizens on prevention in waste generation, their proper separation in origin, possible reuse and recycling, campaigns that promote active participation in waste production reduction actions, about their danger, preparedness actions for reuse or in the implementation of selective collection. An example of the importance of this, of the information campaigns I'm talking about and of good management, we have it in my province. The Deputy of Pontevedra has campaigned to inform, raise awareness and raise awareness of the municipalities about composting which, in the end, is causing the implementation of this system in the different small municipalities to have a high degree of success among the population. That is why, given these precedents to which I refer — from the Pontevedra Parliament — it does not implicate the Union in the mistake of attempting to impose without first informing and raising awareness. And in addition, taking into account what the Government of the United States likes these great advertising campaigns of automobiles, they could also use them for these information and awareness-raising work for efficient waste management. And finally, I wanted to include in my intervention -- because I don't think we can extract them from this regulation -- the new circumstances in which we find ourselves. And I mean the pandemic of the vault-19. The struggle against this pandemic has also led to the increase of certain types of waste; in particular, plastics of one use such as gloves, covers or protective screens, which are no longer used only in the health system, but we are also using them right now in the street. The demand for these products has multiplied, and this also poses a serious pollution problem because many of them are non-recyclable — and I mean gossip — or because in other cases, being recyclable, on many occasions it is not done. Even though I hope this new normality we find is temporary and it doesn't happen again, it doesn't come to stay, I think it would be good to take it into account for a regulation, since this law is still in processing. So we're at the moment of being able to include it, because if we don't efficiently regulate the management of these new resources, the consequences for the environment can be devastating. No more, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u26	Thank you very much, Mrs. Castro. [[One person from the House services comes to disinfect the stage.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block, Mr. Bará Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u27	Good morning. Counselor, you know what this is? If you can look, you'll see that this is composed of the highest quality, compound produced in Pontevedra, 100 kilometers away from home; i.e. strictly and exemplarly fulfilling the principle of prevention, the principle of self-sufficiency, the principle of proximity, the principles that must govern waste policy, the policy of zero kilometer and of converting waste — which is waste, waste — into resources to make more productive soils. [[Mr. Bará Torres shows a glass container with a material from the street.]] This is the model why you have to bet on Galicia's board and definitely abandon the Sogama model [[Applause]] Let's see they fall off the horse! See if they fall off the horse not on the way to Damascus, but on the way to Cerceda or from anywhere, but to see if they fall off the horse. Because this is the modern one, that is the future, that is the European one. [[Murmurs.]] It is not the vanguard, its seals in the state and Europe in the treatment of waste. That's not the way. Because you know what you're doing with this residue that I can pull 100 meters out of my house and make it compost? You know what you're doing, what does Sogama do? Move it hundreds of miles to burn it. That's not the solution. And you've just recently assumed that they're extending Sogama to be able to handle all the garbage produced in Galicia. But that's absolutely insane, that's aberrant! How they can still be there! You are located in the pluttocene of waste treatment These are policies of the past, they are policies of the 20th century and we are in the 21st century, Counsellor. [[Applause]] This doesn't make any sense. This isn't circular economy, this is the vicious circle of the rotating doors that you have with Natural Gas and Fenosa. Because it looks like Sogama. It's about moving the garbage, which in 70% is water, hundreds of miles. Note that inefficiency of this centralized system! It consists of drying it on a plant with natural gas — which you already know who gives it to you and who pays it to you — and then you burn it and produce thousands of tons of rejections that go to a dump where there are more than 5 million tons accumulated — in Areosa, Counsellor. You're talking about eliminating the landfills and there's 5.5 million tons accumulated in the Areosa dump. On average there are more than 120,000 tons of garbage and waste—some dangerous and toxic—that you are depositing there. And it's hundreds of thousands of tons of CO2, and it's the result of transporting the garbage -- as much as now a part to be transported by train -- from drying it, from burning it, and also from the very action of the dump. It's more than half a million tons of CO2 that you emit with that system, because Sogama is a great climate change factory. That's what you're doing with this system. [[Applause]] It is a technically inefficient, economically cost-effective, socially irresponsible and environmentally harmful system. And you can't go that way. You can't go on a path that consists of taking 80% of the waste produced in Galicia to Sogama and getting very little back. They recycle 3% — you said it in memory of the year 2015 — and the rest is going to burn and for a dump. This is your vanguard model of what they assume so much. Well, that's not the way, Counselor. And that's why BNG makes a whole amendment, an amendment to return to this project, because it's an obsolete project, failed, doomed to disappear and you want to shield by law. Because it has nothing to do with what you've said here -- what they put into the law because they have no choice but to put it, because it's an obligation of European legislation that they have to transpose -- and what they're actually doing. It has nothing to do with it. It's day and night. You act, in the matter of waste, like a kamikaze driver who goes in the opposite direction and thinks they're going to reverse the others. But who goes backwards is you with this system. Don't you realize they're completely wrong? You do not comply with the European Waste Directive, do not comply with the State Law of 2011, do not comply with Pemar, which clearly says that the autonomous plans have to establish the system of collection separate from the waste. You don't have to wait for a law to do it, Pemar says. It also fails that "before 2020 the amount of household and commercial waste intended for re-use and recycling must reach at least 50% overall". Do you know what month we're in 2020, Counsellor? In December, and Galicia is at 15%, at 15%! Sogama is less. The average is 15%, when we were supposed to be 50%. And you know who's better? Those who go on another road, those who are betting on composting, on separate collection, on the treatment of more than 50% of the fraction of municipal waste. It's not 43%; 43% are organic waste, bioresidues, but that's what you have to add the remains of pruning, the rest of gardening... and it goes from 50%. That is why there are models in Galicia — which are not campaigns, they are models — technically very advanced and very studied systems that are actually being implemented, for example, in Pontevedra province, because there was a government with vision and courage — by BNG, by the way, and that takes this area — to implement the Revitalize model. And also Allariz, by the way, Allariz RE. Do you know what percentage Allariz has? About 15% on average in Galicia. By 2019 it was 40%; it is in a position to meet by 2020 50% that Europe calls for. And in the province of Pontevedra, the Councils of Line 2, the most advanced, like Vilaboa, like Mondariz, Mondariz-Balneario, or like, for example, The Snows, are above 30%; they were around 30% in 2019. They are also in a position to approach this European goal. They're improving, in addition, by sympathy, the collection of other fractions, because when people separate organic waste they also improve separation, reuse and recycling of glass, paper and light packaging. It's something that is technically and scientifically proven. That's the way, Counselor. And you know what they're doing? You don't pick up the phone; not the political leaders of Revitalization, but you take the phone to your council -- I can tell you here -- to Revitalize technicians, who want to talk to the board. Why do you know who the Revitaliza technicians are talking to? With the European Commission, which is asking for the data, and countries around the world are coming here to copy and learn the model. And with the State too, which also asks for the figures and experience of Pontevedra. And you don't pick up their phone. That's sectarianism, you can't call it otherwise. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] You yourself are in breach of your own 2016 waste plan, the review that they had to do after Pemar, which established composting goals... by the way, home composting, composting — which is not yet regular — composting on microplants and then on plants. And now you've discovered composting and you're doing, to stay well, a plant in Areosa -- it would be for big producers and now it's for nearby municipalities -- and another plant -- by the way, it's called Arousa. Since you started to pronounce Galicia, it's Vilanova de Arousa. [[Laughter]] You said here "Arosa." [[Applause]] I don't know where that laugh is or what the council is; it's Arousa; and "Galiza" too, Mrs. Egerique. Congratulations on this step taken by the People's Party! [[Murmurs.]] You threw yourself into the mountain in waste and took a path, a run forward, which does not go anywhere. Because, which you've been hiring recently, when Europe goes in the opposite direction, an extension of Sogama's plant? By the way, with a contract that mortgages this country for a decade, because it's a 15-year contract for the expansion and management of the plant to a company called Valtalia — which I don't know if it's second — and a ten-year contract for transport. They add these 500 million euros contracts to treat all the waste — you assume — produced in Galicia. They're not going the other way! Don't you realize they're going in the opposite direction? There Mrs. Prado is pointing out that Pontevedra is in the Sogama system. Of course we're in the Sogama system! Of course we are! [[Murmurs.]] But I explain why and where we are now, where we're moving with composting, which is the solution; it's more than 50% of the waste produced. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So don't come to us with stories, don't come to us with campaigns, that they do very well, do a lot of propaganda and do the campaign, "Galiza adds to prevention" and "Sogama distributes composers." No, it's not that, it's a process of sensitization, a process of training, a process of learning, a process of commitment, a process of self-responsibility of people. Because the future isn't about throwing a garbage bag in front of the door of the house in a street so they can pick it up and do with it as it seems to them; people have to respond. And that's the circular economy, it's on-site treatment, it's proximity, it's zero kilometer and it's job creation. Because you said here that the Vilanova plant in Arousa would create 30 jobs. In the Plan Revitaliza — which is still at an initial stage — more than 100 people work, Counselor, more than 100 people! And you know what they work at? They don't work on a plant, they work on raising awareness, they work on raising awareness, they work on empowering people, they learn to have another relationship with waste to make them resourceful. That's absolutely fundamental, it has to be almost 90% of the job, and for that we have to train people with skills, with technical qualifications. And that's why in Revitaliza they created the "Faculty of Compostage", which is an example throughout Europe and they're setting up all over Europe. There are organizations in Europe that are saying that Europe will end up copying Pontevedra's model, do it yourself! No... laugh at Mrs. Novoa, laugh at her! [[Murmurs.]] Yeah, that's right, it's written. They are consulting organisations in the European Union — you would have to go a little further to the hemero library, be more careful and remove the ears — which they are saying the European Union will end up setting up the Revitaliza system. I would really invite you, Mrs. Novoa, to meet him, to take the phone to the technicians, to meet him because he's not much to learn. Knowledge doesn't take place. They should have a little more humility and get closer to reality, get down to the earth and know how things are doing well, because that's where representatives from all over Spain and the world are going, and both UNESCO and the UN are also putting that experience as an example. For Sogama, yes... for Sogama, you better not get close because they might end up in chamois, because that's what you guys do there. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Anyway... Then, of course, you, who are smugglers of ideas, approach the discourse, the message: the green, the sustainable, the circular, when they do the opposite. You can't do that, manipulate ideas and concepts and use them for the opposite direction. Look, plastics, packaging and packaging... you talked about the residue of food, but, well, I'll tell you something... I haven't told you before — that I can also tell you to see the data — that, look, these are the data from Galicia's Waste Plan. Do you know what you spend most of the money, 80% of the plan? [[Mr. Bará Torres shows a document.]] Incineration, 80%, 427 million. Do you know how much you spend on prevention, which is the highest point in the hierarchy, the first point in the hierarchy, what should be priority? You spend 11 million in ten years, 2.23% of the whole plan, and to burn, 81.92%. With this, there's nothing else to say. You're failing at first to end the waste hierarchy, you're going in the opposite direction, you're spending more on what should be spent less, where it should be the last solution. Because we don't say right now that you don't have to incinerate, but that formula has to go towards disappearance. And that's why we propose an agency, an alternative organism to Sogama, because the word Sogama itself has already gone back: Sogama, Galaga Society of the Environment. They should change his name: Sogain, the Galician society of incineration, and landfill, because that's what they're devoted to. Well, that's the data. But, look, incineration and dump are at the last place in the waste hierarchy; it should be the last option. You in the strategy of the circular economy that they took care of at universities and then they capped -- yes, they put the scissors, the sawmill -- you know what they put there in measure 8.1.3? [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The establishment or, at least, conducting a study for the establishment of a green tax that penalized incineration, in addition to dumping. Where's that in the law? Where is he? If you put it on...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u28	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u29	Already?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u30	The clock's 20 seconds ahead of time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u31	Oh, of course, I saw the clock backwards.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u32	You have another second shift later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u33	Before that, we have proposed the alternatives: we propose a tax on incineration and dumping, we propose a Welsh agency of waste and the circular economy, we propose a waste fund, we propose a system for packaging and packaging alternative to that perverse Ecoumbs system...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u34	Thank you very much, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u35	...the deposit system of return and return...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u36	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u37	Finally, we have many proposals and alternatives that are also based on the experience of what is being done well in the world, what is being done well in Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u38	Your time is up, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u39	...of what is being done well in the county of Pontevedra. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u40	Thank you very much. You have another shift later. I was in purple!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u41	Yes, but it's not worth making up for other groups. This... is that if we don't, we're gonna get caught! Finally, you are an experienced spokesman in this Parliament. [[Laughter]] You have the floor, on behalf of the non-amendant parliamentary group, to fix your position, Mrs. Nouveau Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u42	Mr Bará, the People's Group is making an error that occurred in an amendment in a debate last week. But, look, the Greeks have already answered him: Galicia, Galicia, Galicia, and, for the fourth time, Galicia. [[Applause]] Look, I would like to begin by thanking and congratulating Mrs Medio Ambiente, Territorial and Vivenda for the achievement of this important law, the Waste and Contaminated Land Act, which assumes that Galicia is leading the rest of the Spanish regions in the adaptation and integration of its legislation into the content of the European Waste Directive. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating at parliamentary headquarters your opportunity, and it is incomprehensible how the opposition can question the suitability of this bill at this moment. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia has an autonomous waste law dated 2008 which, after twelve years of its entry into force, is obviously obsolete, so it is essential to have a new legal text, without prejudice to it being adapted according to the regulatory changes that are taking place. As you know, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, there are important European directives adopted in recent years which are obviously not in the Law of 2008, because the whole European regulatory framework on waste, circular economy and climate change has been in the last few years as a review, and Galicia needs to adapt. It is surprising that if you oppose the need for a new rule of law in the Autonomous Community on waste, wanting to maintain the supervision of a 12-year old text, seeking to postpone Galicia and claim the opening of a dialogue process that only conceals the desire to try to hinder the legislative process, because they know that in the processing of a bill in parliamentary headquarters, amendments are tabled, they are due... in fact, to many agreements with the opposition which, consequently, improve the initial texts. From the People's Group we believe that it is perfectly possible to process this legislative project at the present time, in which a new production model cannot be left behind at European and global level. And we cannot wait for the introduction of the State Basic Law, which, yes, Mrs. Castro, is late, because it had to be in July when European regulations had to be adapted, European directives, and Mr. Sánchez's Government did not do so. That's too late. Moreover, until now, the Central Government has made the only one that has brought out a preliminary draft law which has not even merited the approval of the Council of Ministers to initiate its proceedings in the Courts. That is the example, ladies and gentlemen, of the dialogue that Mr Sánchez has used to us. On the other hand, the Government of Galicia, in its autonomous competence to adopt the additional rules on environmental protection and landscape, sends Parliament this important and appropriate law which aims to define a policy framework of vanguard that takes on the challenges of the highest European standards. The truth is that they are predictable, and the criticism of Sogama is what centers most of the amendments to the whole that you presented. Look at the best proof of the sustainability of the Sogama model, Mr Bará. Look here, I'll show you a map of Galicia. [[Mr. Novoa Iglesias shows a map of Galicia in green color.]] This is the best evidence: 295 municipalities - from 314 - acceded to Sogama; 295 municipalities voluntarily joined, who have skills in waste management. All these councils, all of them, of all political signs, are attached to Sogama; municipalities with governments that, as I say, have exclusive competence in the collection and treatment of waste and who voluntarily decided, in their day, to entrust the management of the remaining fraction to Sogama, and remain attached to it until today. [[Applause]] It should be borne in mind that this accession does not involve a commitment to supply a certain volume of waste. The municipalities that are attached are those who have the responsibility to set up selective collections of the different fractions as a prerequisite for achieving greater re-use and recycling quotas. Sogama itself put in place a drastic process of modernization that allowed it to double its treatment capacity and improve it qualitatively by increasing the recovery of waste recyclable materials in mass, but maintaining the essential energy recovery of non-recoverable materials, and which is subject — as it cannot be otherwise — to standards of efficiency, energy efficiency and emission limitation, in line with the aim of achieving the zero technical discharge. In fact, the modernization of Sogama was involved in meeting the demand of the Greek municipalities and ensuring the proper treatment of waste and not with a centralizing spirit that would be irrelevant in view of the exclusive competence of those entities to put in place the system of collection or treatment they consider. But the truth is that you, ladies and gentlemen, ruled in Galicia and were able to change the Sogama model, and not only did they not do so, but it is more, in addition to not being exempt from Sogama, what they did was lead her to a disastrous management, under the direct responsibility of a councillor rejected by the PSdeG at that time what they did was to increase by more than 60% the volume of waste deposited in the Areosa dump without having received, lordships, any treatment; to the point that in 2009 the verdict was virtually exhausted, Mr. Bará. That was his responsibility at that time. And they did not take any measures to prevent the imminent collapse. Therefore, waste management lessons from your opposition lords, few, lords. I insist on this law, of course, that it remains within the competence of the Greek councils to articulate alternative waste treatment systems, whenever they adapt to the autonomous and state planning in this matter, and receiving, of course, the collaboration of the Galician Union, as it is already being done right now. She commented on this in her speech today and a few days ago in the Committee on Budgets, in which she told them about the new composting plants and the economic support the municipalities will receive in this matter. He named the Vilanova plant here today; very soon there will be another one in the northern part of Galicia and also in the south of my province. He also told you about it in the Budget Committee. As for the criticisms of Sogama incineration, they know that it is at the end of the waste disposal preference order, the penultimate step being the energy recovery that is used for waste that cannot be recovered after recycling. Mr Bará, two who cannot be recovered! You don't understand! What part of that phrase don't you understand? The criticism you pronounce, Mr Bará, is for total ignorance. The energy enhancement Sogama applies to the remaining fraction is fully in line with the waste hierarchy, and they are practices perfectly accepted by the European regulatory context, which even little financed such plants in all countries. You set an example for Germany and Denmark when you want to -- I can't say another word, but well, when you ask them, better said -- At that time they set an example for those countries, but when there is a plant that is at the top of all European standards, you criticise them, as they always do, even though they are predictable. On the other hand, if we took its principle of proximity, the principle of proximity that BNG drives, would force every Greek council to have a system of collection and treatment for all fractions of municipal waste, which would be admissible, ladies and gentlemen, but they have the competence of the municipalities. [[Murmurs.]] Neither this law nor us, this group, deny that the municipalities are competent, but it is obvious that these infrastructures are very complex, both from a technical and a human point of view. You and I, who have government responsibilities -- I don't know if you have them now, but I do, who are the mayor's lieutenant in a council of more than 5,000 inhabitants -- we know the complex that is all about waste. So, you... Finally, we defend and hope that each council will implement the selective collection of the treatment of the organic fraction that it wants and is oriented to composting as well, which unfolds the selective collection of packaging, glass and cardboard and, ultimately, that it will deliver the remaining fraction to Sogama. For all this, the Galician Union has been providing support to municipalities both individually and jointly. But here we can also analyze other types of alternative models, such as the Coruña one, don't we? launched by a government of the PSdEG and which is currently responsible for its management. From the beginning I intended to circumvent the incineration, and the result was that very important efficiency problems were accumulated, and even now there is a single dump that is completely exhausted and pendant of sealing. That's his management. And another point, Mr. Bará. You're here today, you're just composting, and, look, the Plan Revitalize, which drives the Deputy with 10 million euros, which has caused the increase in shipments to Sogama since 2015. Man, the statistics are there, more than 2%. [[Murmurs.]] Is that the success...? That's the reality, that's the data, and that's the success of your management. [[Murmurs.]] Look, in Galicia -- the advisor said a little ago -- there were over 3,000 illegal landfills. Since 2009, all the landfills have been closed and many have been eliminated, ladies and gentlemen. But what is clear is that you continue to turn your back on reality and do not want to recognize what, on the other hand, if you recognize local governments, also — I insist — from all parties, even your parties, who recognize the value of Sogama and 294 the municipalities that are attached. And by giving you some more data related to Sogama, I tell you that in 2008 it carried the 46.38% of the waste it received, and in 2008 I think you governed, Mr Bará; and in 2019 the direct dumping was just 5%. We can put Nostián's data in the Coruña, with 47% in the dump, and Lousame's plant, with 61%. That's the data you don't want to see. This year, as the Councillor said, 15 years before the European Parliament set up, Sogama will be the technical discharge zero - 15 years earlier; neither does it value it -. What it means is that Galicia has done her homework. This is the fruit of the investment, work and government betting of Galician Union for that waste management system. With regard to bioresidues, this law strictly adheres to the collection in European directives, while the state introduces differentiation for municipalities of more than 5,000 inhabitants. 113 municipalities in Galicia would be forced to perform before time, two years before what Europe says. What proves all this is that they are still far from municipal reality, because paper supports everything, but reality isn't, and it's going to be very complex that councils of this kind, as I live, can adapt to this system that you propose. But, yes, they are not able to put into value, for example, the goal of achieving the recycling of 75% of non-hazardous waste from construction in 2025, as this law says, whether the state project or its name. As for the dates of the rest of the objectives collected in the law, it is clear that we will have to update when this law is passed and I hope that in the process of negotiating amendments we will be able to reach agreements with all of you. I think this dialogue should be the normal one, and it doesn't match much of these amendments to the whole thing you're proposing. As far as environmental tax promotion measures are concerned, it is surprising that both groups, both the BNG and the PSdeG, want to establish autonomous taxation, when the Central Government has already announced an important tax battery. We believe that the market unit bet is important and we believe that these issues should be homogenously regulated across the state. We also believe that what pollutes must pay, but not excessively; I think it's not the time to raise taxes. As far as waste management is concerned, it was very well explained by the advisor in the Committee on Budgets. They're being treated on an independent line of urban waste, where health waste is subjected to a pretreatment and then eliminated at more than 850 degrees; a temperature that eliminates any kind of pathogen. More than 65,000 kilograms of health waste have been dealt with, and there's how other communities have been affected by complaints in the Prosecutor's Office; well, the Prosecutor's Office is reviewing it, but it hasn't happened in Galicia. So, I think it's a success that we all have to bear in mind, that all our waste was treated in Sogama and that we didn't have to see accumulated waste, as happened in other communities, outside the hospitals. That didn't happen here, gentlemen. It's good that you're always criticizing and not recognizing things and work, above all, that makes all the staff. It is important to highlight, as the advisor here well explained, all the objectives of this law, which obliges the elimination of plastic in Galician society, prohibiting the free entry of bags and the sale of plastic vase. As regards food waste, it also promotes the delivery of waste in restaurants and highlights the creation of industrial waste collection points on large commercial areas, public buildings or the regulation of municipal clean points. It also promotes green public procurement and highlights an important goal, which is the protection of our soil, for what is established its regulation, as well as an inventory and more a financial guarantee. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Group defends a law which will replace another law in 2008 and which, after twelve years since its entry into force, obviously becomes obsolete; a law which has as its priority objective the necessary thrust for selective and separate collection and to fully enjoy the useful life of waste, thereby consolidating a change of production model to enable Galicia to move forward towards the circular economy. You are, Counsellor, a whole bet on prevention, reuse and recycling, in line with the principle of hierarchy in waste management. With you, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that we will be able to reach agreements in the process of drafting the dictation, as an example of a dialogue that allows us to bring forward a law that represents us all. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u43	Thank you very much, Mrs. Novoa. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] A replica shift is open for the amending parliamentary groups. First of all, you have the floor, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Castro Rey.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u44	Thank you, President. I think we all have to have as a priority objective in our policy in Wales the fulfilment of these sustainable development goals included in Agenda 2030 and, above all, related to waste management; I refer to production and sustainable consumption, climate action and underwater life. As far as Mrs Novoa was concerned, you say that state law is very late. If we put on a balance, we see that there is a current state law, the current one, which is of the year 2011, and a preliminary draft law that is being processed in Congress, which does include the transposition of the European Directive of June 5, 2019 -- therefore, a year and a few months ago -- and which deals in its articulate -- as I was repudiating in my first intervention -- the reduction and impact of certain plastic products in the environment. We also put on a balance the current law that is in force in Galicia, which is of the year 2008, and the preliminary draft law that we are discussing, even if it is in a phase a little more advanced, which has started for more than three years, I don't know what would be going on later. I think it is urgent to define clearly the obligations and extended responsibility of the producer, which are the main, at the end, responsible for the waste generation, and we have to put with them the principle of "who pollutes, pays", because this legislative reform alone will respond to the challenges that expose the climate emergency and the necessary change to a circular economy, of which you were also talking; a circular economy that is consistent with the limits of the planet and respectful to human rights. This bill of waste and contaminated soils is far away at this time of responding to these challenges. We need a law that incorporates more ambitious targets to reduce waste generation to levels below 2010, limiting the annual production of the remaining fraction per inhabitant and achieving a 20% reduction in waste by 2030. Specific measures have to be taken in the field of prevention - prevention is essential - measures that address the early stages of the life cycle of product, design and design, production or consumption, and that are effective in reducing the amount of resources used, waste generated and its impacts on the environment as well as the toxicity of materials and products. So far, the policies that are being made, to focus only on the waste management and disposal phase, tend to demonstrate or demonstrate that they are ineffective to reduce environmental impacts. This approach contravenes the hierarchy of waste established by the European Union and has been shown to be ineffective especially for certain fractions, such as packaging and plastics. According to recent data, with the current container system we only recycled about 25% of the packaging. This cannot be, and clearly shows that recycling alone is not the solution. In view of this wrong strategy, I believe that the law must point to the first responsible for the selection of waste, which are the producing companies, to demand the reduction of overpacking and superfluous packaging, to eliminate the products and packaging from use and disposal and, above all, to avoid falling into false solutions such as the bad bioplastics, which, among other things, aggravate the problem of scattered waste. It requires a commitment determined to combat the obsolescence programmed and perceived and to prolong the useful life of the products, their repair and their reuse, laying down design and production requirements and promoting second-hand repair and sale services, including, as I said earlier and in my first intervention, tax measures. There is a need for green tax or tax figures as a complementary economic instrument to stimulate and encourage more respectful behaviors with the natural environment. It is not a matter of overcrowding taxes of a state character, but of coordinating them with some of an autonomous nature and of setting specific targets for waste flow, such as textiles, packaging, personal hygiene products; of implementing a system of deposit, return and return; of ensuring an effective collection and treatment of organic matter; and of disincenting through a tax, as it said, finalist treatments such as dumping and incineration. And finally, to conclude, I don't think you can afford any more makeup or facial wash. We have to take advantage of this context to give our production and consumption model a 180 degree turn and give the problem a kick forward. It's a model where the time to act is exhausted and, therefore, we need an urgent and effective waste law. And thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u45	Thank you very much, Mrs. Castro. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block, Mr. Bará Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u46	Thank you. For them to be clear from the beginning, we don't oppose a law, because it's mandatory. European legislation must be transposed. The state, the central government, is going to be a turtle pass. Let's see if they're gone! We do not oppose a law, we oppose this law, this system, which is obsolete; a failed system and a system of the past, an inefficient system, a costly system, an environmentally indefensible system and a system, besides, centralized. And a centralized system goes against the whole waste system and the European directives. It's antithetic. And, of course, we are, with 13% reuse and recycling data. We're in the state queue. And thanks to the fact that there are other alternative systems to Sogama that go up half - that we don't put them here as examples of perfection, because they have a lot to fix, they don't work well, but they go up half -! You have us in line. We are after Melilla and after the Community of Madrid; we are the third worst in the state. And you come here pretending. Of what, what do they assume? Of course, about the rest, I tell you that Sogama without the rest, without the organic matter, has no fuel. Sogama's food is organic matter. No, they buy natural gas to dry organic matter, because it doesn't burn wet, wet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] With 70% of water, it doesn't burn. So, we'll buy natural gas from Sogama's partner -- it's the perfect circular economy, the vicious circle -- and everything stays at home. It's Juan Palomo's: I cook it, I eat it. That's the philosophy of the People's Party Sogama. Mrs. Novoa, there's nothing else left. And you'll say, is that my county is small... there's nothing else left! It's mandatory by law -- that we think it should already be -- the separate collection and also the separate treatment of organic matter, and that goes down the Sogama model, the Sogama system -- which is not a model, by the way -- And, of course, you're making that trap for the lonesome that has increased the shipment to Sogama since 2015 of the Revitaliza Town Councils. Falso! Of all falsehood! It's not true, from 2015 to 2016, with the economic cycle, it has increased the production of waste in general, but the municipalities of line 2 of the Revitaliza are greatly improving the selective collection of organic matter. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The collection of the other fractions, too, out of sympathy, as I told you earlier. If you took the phone, you would explain it to them; if you collected the data that Sogama sends, which they have in the European Union and in Madrid, they would know that the People's Party councils, such as Mondariz-Balneario, are examples of Revitaliza. It's not a question of acronyms, of political ideas; they're councils of the People's Party, the PSOE and the BNG that are in the Revitalization, line 2 of Revitalization, and they're already going to go to line 3, with a new tax system as well. Valga is another county of the People's Party, an advanced student of Revitaliza. It's not a question of acronyms. Look, I'm done with the proposals -- which you haven't given me time before -- that we offer them options, as alternatives, to work for an agreement, because we can't afford a country that doesn't have an agreement on this matter. It's a fundamental issue, also for emergencies, for environmental emergencies that we have on top of. So we propose model change, the bet on in situ treatment, proximity, local treatment, zero kilometre, so that means to treat more than half of municipal waste, by the way; it's more than half. Second, the establishment of the deposit, return and return system is another key piece so that the garbage, the plastic, does not end up inciting our rivers and our rivers. Tomorrow we'll talk about the laughs, I don't have time here to spread out on this issue, but the laughs are in a critical state, and one of the causes is this. You have to break up with that monopoly where the big garbage producers, packaging companies, like Coca-Cola, Danone, at last... and also the big commercial surfaces are in Ecoembes like a lobby that controls this issue. We have to change the model, because, besides, it's in our culture, in our tradition, that of returning the helmet. It's very easy, like recycling and composting, it's in our DNA, in our tradition, and people understand it perfectly and get involved in this system. We must have stricter targets, for all fractions and targets to reduce food waste, much more ambitious. Administrations should set an example of promoting green public purchasing, bio-economics and also circular economics. It is essential to encourage participation in the whole cycle and in every process and to create the Galicia Waste Commission; to create a tax on disposal, incineration and disposal in landfill; to create a waste fund to finance, above all, measures to prevent and promote such alternatives; and to transform Sogama into the waste agency...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u47	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u48	...for the circular economy. It's over, Mr. President. These are proposals - which we offer - advanced, realistic, possible, contrasting, successful, efficient, environmentally friendly, to place Galicia in the head of Europe and in the head of the world. It's already done, it's possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u49	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. We now move on to the next point, which is 1.3. Debate taken into account by the G.P. Galician people, amending Law 8/2008 of 10 July 2008 on health of Galician citizens
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u50	For the presentation of the non-law motion, by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Mr. Puy Fraga has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Very good morning to all and all. It is an honour for me to present today, before this House, this bill amending the health law of Galicia, Law 8/2008. It's probably one of the projects, within the many bills and legislative proposals this House is debating at the beginning of this legislation, of which we consider most important. This bill has clear objectives, which are to cover the ponds and deficiencies of the vigorous legislation to fight better against the pandemic; a health situation that turns out to be, for us, for our generation, completely new, unpredictable and, for its duration, a long epidemic, for its persistence in time, and even because it is a situation that we all think can be recurrent, not only in the short term but with regard to the coming years. When talking about the pandemic, it is necessary once again to remember the latest data we have in Galicia: there are over 52,000 people suffering or suffering from infection; this second wave, fortunately, is being less intense, both in Galicia and Spain, than was the first, the difference from what is happening in other European countries; Galicia, within Spain, also continues to have a smaller cumulative incidence, both seven days and fourteen days - the last one, the fourteen days, which we are with the latest data made public by the Ministry - is 178 versus 215 of the average of Spain; and we also have less positivity. This less bad data, of course, doesn't mean that we don't have to keep working and, of course, always carry in memory the more than 1,200 dead in Galicia, always bear in mind their suffering, those of their families, those of their friends, with whom we share their pain, and, of course, always carry in memory all those who are fighting against the pandemic in whatever places it is. We all want to give them courage and strength, and also all those who are still infected today. As a society we have a ring, and there's a light at the end of the tunnel, which are the vaccines, which are already beginning to think about their distribution, but there are still months left. The Spanish Government itself announced that this until summer would not be resolved. We must therefore continue to behave with responsibility throughout this season and always bear in mind those who suffer from illness, but also their economic and social consequences, and we must do everything possible to minimize the consequences of this unprecedented situation in many years. Precisely, the bill we understand is an exercise of responsibility because it accumulates the management experience since March by the Autonomic Administration; a period in which it was pointed out that our health policy framework was not prepared to face a long pandemic, with widespread effects on society, itself and ethymologically a pandemic, both on public health and on the health system as a whole of society; that is, both in economic, social and even political aspects, because we saw and experienced in the first person the effects on the very functioning of the democratic system. As we know, the regulatory framework is characterized by a constitution that provides for states of emergency, specifically the state of alarm for pandemic situations. It was an optimal application of the Constitution at first, and it allowed to face the first collision, the first wave of the pandemic. My group has always agreed to that alarm status application. Our party supported the first two months four consecutive votes; the votes of the People's Party allowed that statement of alarm status, but the fact is that that alarm state is underdeveloped. The organic law governing the states of alarm, exception and site, which is organic law 4/81, is referred to in Article 12 for cases of health crises - in Article 4(b) such as epidemics, to which the competent authority, when the state of alarm is declared competent, may adopt by itself, according to the cases, the measures laid down in the rules for the fight against infectious diseases, and the fact is that the health laws, both national and national - organic law 3/1986, on health - such as the Galician Health Act, which is Law 8/2008, do not provide for pandemic situations such as those we are currently living. So there was an attempt to reform the State Organic Law. It was proposed at the Conference of Presidents early in May that there was even a commitment to reform before the second state of alarm by the Government of Spain and finally did not take place, despite the fact that the Ditome of the Congressional Reactivation Commission – – which was drawn up in June– July– advised to implement this reform. But only the legal problems raised during the first months of the pandemic were solved, and the disparity of the judicial review of the measures taken by the various self-governments at the co-governance stage prior to the second state of alarm showed the need to make reforms, as one that was done - which was correct - which was the reform of the Law on Dispute-Administrative Jurisdiction, so that the competence of the review of anti-ronovirus measures adopted by the autonomous communities would be carried out by the higher courts of justice. There was no legislative action in the rest. I think it's obvious that two problems arose at the co-governance stage. First of all, the strictly legal ones. There's an auto from the Madrid High Court of Justice that constitutes a clear call for attention to the need to resort to law rather than to ministerial orders or advice orders to restrict the exercise of fundamental rights. And I remember what that car said. It literally says: "The fundamental rights conferred by the Constitution on citizens cannot be affected by any state interference not authorized by their representatives by a rule of law that meets the minimum requirements required by the legal certainty requirements." Moreover, the judgment advises the use of instruments that provide for the rule of law - which are the laws - to legislate in pandemic situations when health authorities are forced to restrict the exercise of fundamental rights. The second call of attention was already in the second state of alarm, also in the period of co-governance, when some autonomous community, for example, Asturias -- in which there was exemplary behavior in the first wave, but which was especially affected by the second -- its autonomous government, called for total house confinement in its territory. The Ministry of Health then requested that it be expected, said that the total house confinements were not planned and that they would therefore have to wait for the effects of the intermediate measures being taken by the various autonomous communities. The fact is that the period of co-governance has been contradicted by the fact that an autonomous community has asked for a measure which has not been adopted, because neither was it provided for in the organic law nor in the corresponding autonomous law. It is finally necessary to give legal certainty, both to the administrations and to the administrations. It was not possible to update the state law, although we ask it here from this House, but we can reform the autonomous law; of course, by also fulfilling the fifth recommendation of the Congressional Social and Economic Reconstruction Commission, which approved, with the vote of the parties represented here in its health part, the fifth recommendation on "...upgrading national and autonomous health legislation", giving priority to those who would be directed against a possible second outbreak of the pandemic, which is what we are living in. Finally, we are proposing a legislative debate that wants to be projected for what remains of the pandemic, but also to stop the possible pandemics that may come in the future. In the face of improvisation, uncertainty and disparity of legal criteria, we believe that regulation by law guarantees the automatism of responses, reduces uncertainties in administrations about what the Administration can do and in what circumstances and allows a more homogeneous interpretation by the courts of proportionality and the adequacy of the provisions that the health authority adopts, as well as resolves – – – we are trying to solve – the problems of competence, as has been raised in Galicia regarding sanctions. And precisely this bill, the first thing it does is to define which authorities exercise jurisdiction in the event of a pandemic. It is therefore established, and it delineates who is the health authority, which includes from the Board of Trustees, the person who holds the Health Council – – who today accompanies us, and that is why we also thank him – to the persons who hold the Service Inspection, to the holders of the territorial health offices and to the mayors and mayors. Secondly, with this bill we also list the measures which may be taken by the health authorities, ranging from the seizure and immobilization of products - something which is provided for in the state of alarm, but not in the Greek Health Act - to measures of all kinds: delimitations of capacity, security measures and hygiene in certain places or activities, self-protection measures or intervention in social services centres or the provision of data necessary for the control and containment of the risk to public health. Thirdly, this bill also provides preventive measures of recognition, treatment, hospitalization or control when there is supposed to be a danger to the health of the population or to a person or group of people. We provide for home isolation, hospitalization at a hospital or other detention, the submission to quarantiners at home or in another suitable place of persons with illness, or measures to restrict or restrict the movement or mobility of persons within an area affected in certain places of the home or in certain time slots. We also anticipate the intervention of social services centres, as soon as it has been found that this is an essential measure for the protection of public health, especially for older people and people with disabilities. In addition, these measures will be taken with the urgency required, without, of course, avoiding their subsequent control by the judiciary. Thirdly, it lays down guarantees for the protection of the rights of citizens. Obviously, respect for the dignity of the person is imposed as an absolute limit, and it provides for a number of rules of action, such as those concerning which should be the least intrusive and invasive possible in order to achieve the public health objective, but it is also envisaged that they are temporary, that they are transparent and that they are motivated in accordance with three rules: the suitability, necessity and proportionality of the adopted standard. Fourthly, and finally, three questions are introduced. The proposed law for the amendment of the Galician Health Act pays special attention to new technologies, such as the mechanism for information, prevention, detection and follow-up of diseases, something that this new pandemic has just proved to be a useful tool that can be used to improve the situation, follow-up and tracking of the pandemic. Secondly, it also requires, in some ways, or refers to the necessary collaboration between the Government of Greece and the municipalities, which must provide information and provide the necessary cooperation with one another. And finally, the sanctioning regime will be clarified with a clearer and more complete sanctioning regime than preventing the rules from being met, because, among other things, even if sanctions are imposed, they are not effective. Ladies and gentlemen, social psychologists say there are three ways of dealing with a pandemic, like any other kind of misfortune that affects an individual or a group of people. There's a first answer, which is negationism. In politics we have seen denial by the American Administration, and all we can say about this is that it is politically regrettable. There's a second answer, which is self-referential, which tries one to worry about himself, how it can affect the situation and how it can get out of it. This attitude, from a political point of view, we think it is clearly irresponsible. And there's a third way to deal with a tragedy like the pandemic we suffer, which is being effective and focusing on knowing and analysing the situation well to find the most effective ways to solve the problems. That is the position that we believe must prevail in this House, and that is why we put forward this debate, which is genuinely legislative, to determine among all of us how to act in front of a pandemic, with the law in hand, with all possible guarantees that will minimize its impact on public health and on social, economic, personal and all kinds of relationships, both in the present and in the future. We hope, ladies and gentlemen, as always, that this genuinely legislating debate will be a constructive debate, with useful approaches, which, of course, we will try to incorporate into the rule finally adopted by the House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u52	Thank you, Mr. Puy. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Round of parliamentary groups. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr Torrado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u53	Thank you, President. Good morning. Good morning to all and to all. First of all, I want to celebrate the importance of social psychology in parliamentary debates. I'll never be happier. It also says social psychology that at times of uncertainty like the ones we live tend to appear authoritarian populism. That's what he really says, and I think it's suitable for today's debate. We can't agree with this law. I think it's also an ethical commitment not to agree with this reform, and I'm going to explain why. First, by saving the inaccuracies - understanding that involuntary, but strange - on the exposition of motives of this law, this is a debate, obviously and purely, of right and not health. And secondly, by appealing both to the Ditam of the Committee on the Reconstruction of the Congress of Deputies, it would be very good for the PP not to vote against in the committee itself, because, by appealing to it, a reform of the law is done here, now, but there it has voted against. And it is also called upon that the People's Group has always been in favour of the state of alarm, which the People's Party may not have known, but has not always been in favour of the state of alarm. It is therefore important to appeal to matters which are, first, certain. [[Applause]] We cannot agree - in fact, we do not agree - even with the way this debate is brought here. First of all, because a very relevant reform is proposed, as it has been announced, and it is true that it is, but it proposes the People's Group avoiding legal reports, of which we will be very happy to know what they say, because there are a lot of legal problems in this formulation of the law. But he doesn't have them. The only report we know is that of the General Secretariat of Equality of the Galician Union, which says you don't like the law because of some issues affecting your area. It's the only report we know today. So there is no legal report for a law, which is also a purely legal debate, as it was moved here in the explanatory statement. Therefore, it is already a strange parliamentary manoeuvre, a parliamentary manoeuvre of dubiousness - of doubt! - appreciation and proportionality for what we are debating, only made to feed a certain Bolivarian delusion of Mr Feijóo after the batacazo he led at Congress, where they were left alone making a proposal like this; alone! We would agree that what is being brought here is a debate on the sanctioning regulation, which is necessary. We could safely disagree on some issues, but the sanctioning regulation may be necessary, because there is a problem in the courts with the sanctions, with the regulations that are issued, and obviously there is a job to be done about it. But it's a sanctioning regulation that we need, not an amendment to the Health Act, which does something else like what this one does. We need a sanctioning regulation, like what, by the way, they've done Andalusia, Extremes, Navarre, Aragon, Valencia... and I can follow. That is what we need, a sanctioning regulation, and it would be fine, would make sense and, of course, it is a necessity. But not this, because this is not a sanctioning regulation, this is something else, this is a permanent alarm state. The PP, who didn't want the alarm state in a pandemic, wants to deploy a permanent alarm state now in Galicia, whether or not there is a pandemic, and that's what we can't accept. [[Applause]] Article 38 to which it refers is practically, with some nuance—some nuance!—a replica of the actual decrees of the alarm state. 38 bis is the ministerial order of 24 March with regard to intervention in the centres, in the homes of older people, mainly. It's basically a replica of the alarm state brought to law, and therefore so that it can always be used. We don't agree with a state of alarm in an exceptional historical situation, but if we agree with a state of alarm -- which is actually what it is -- moved to the whole debate every day of the rest of our life. And that's not understandable if it's not an authoritarian drift. We have a problem with this formulation, because it makes rules that you're going to see if it's going to be the PP that didn't agree because the central government applied them, but the ones that were lightningly against, and it says things about the state of alarm like what Mr. Feijóo said and that I'm not going to repeat because they look obscene to me, but now they want to implement it. The alarm state is fine if I use it, that's what's distilled from this legislation. So we can't agree, of course we can't agree. He's got some serious questions, basically, which are worrying. First, the delimitation of the health authority. It's a serious matter. Let me say that this will make health authority the neighbour of the fifth, it will make health authority to everyone, to everyone! The delimitation of the health authority is — i.e. diffuse — practically disappeared from this law, disappeared! It's everybody. According to this law — Article 33 — a Heritage Inspector may apply a sanction to a citizen without explanation why, and this makes no sense. There's a curiosity: they're inspectors, but autonomics. One of the state store can't, the state inspectors don't want them anymore. This confrontation is already extreme. The state inspectors, no; but the autonomics, yes. It does not say at any time that it is related to the field of health or, more importantly, any professional in the exercise of health work — which may have a certain meaning —. But then we asked ourselves — and we're going to bring up a debate, Counselor, and allow me even though I know it's not up to you — we don't know what trackers are yet but they're going to be able to make decisions about it. Maybe we can delimit and know how many they are, because they're going to be able to make sanctions decisions on the street. Then we've demarcated them. You have to identify. Oh, no! You don't have to identify. Don't tell her. We don't know who they are, we don't know when they are, we don't know who hires them. They're hired for days by an external company. But they can apply sanctions to any citizen solely based, and — as the law says — without the necessary administrative procedure, only because they decide. There is some appreciation — let me take the law to quote textually some questions that are delicate — because, of course, yes, the Madrid TSJ spoke of some matter and of the amendments in matters such as fundamental rights and public freedoms and their necessary modification. I'm not a juridical technician — I sleep in social psychology — but he said one very important thing: that can be modified by organic laws. That's what Madrid's TSJ car says. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And the proposed amendment of the law here is about the limiting measures of fundamental rights and public freedoms. We want a legal report to really know if this can be done through an amendment of an autonomous law. I won't be the one who takes the opposite of those who know right, but it's amazing that we have a question about fundamental rights and public freedoms that was a nuclear element of our democratic transition, a fundamental element of our constitutional debate, with a very clear legal anchorage and that it only has very established procedures to be able to change itself, and that it can be modified with a proposal that brings here a parliamentary group to an autonomous parliament. [[Murmurs.]] You can, by the way, modify a matter as important as fundamental rights and public freedoms in Ribadeo yes and no in Vegadeo. And we don't agree with that either. There is no time left to talk—it would be for another debate—that in the regulation it brings two different sanctions regimes, and it recognizes the law itself; even with the mention that there can be confluence of sanctions on two different ways. We have one law and two sanctions regulations, one law and two sanctions regulations! And it surprises us, moreover — and I cannot let it happen — that there is no mention of the question of legitimate and important debate on the mandatory vaccination that this law implies, because it implies it. It's a complicated debate. First, our position is clear, first, about the debate, which is legitimate; second, we believe more in awareness than in compulsoryity; third, data say that Galicia and Spain have historically high levels of vaccination, far above countries where they are mandatory vaccines. And the example is in childhood, where we are clearly better. There's no problem with anti-activacins in Spain even though some people want to feed it — for example, when the PP had on Spanish TV every day to Javier Cárdenas talking about anti-activacins and diseases coming through vaccines. We all know that there's no problem with anti-activacins in Spain, but we know there's a problem with poverty, because people who don't get vacant are those who are in cores or in social environments that are difficult to access to the system. They're few, but too many if we see the realities one by one. And that's the problem of vaccination. There's the vaccination problems. It's a socio-economic, non-healthy problem. There's no real anti-activacin problem, you can have it if you feed it. By the way, it also feeds itself — as social psychology says — if we do frenzy. If we're forced to vaccinate, we're going to feed anti-virgin people, and that's evidence. We therefore believe that this debate must be dealt with in this way. But in any case, having a legitimate position on compulsory vaccination — which we do not share but which is legitimate — the law says that any health authority can carry out or order this. And I literally mention it, I'm going to read it: "Although there is still scientific uncertainty, a health authority...--that can be any official, as it is collected here, any one of any scope-- "...may force you to vaccinate..." It's in the law: "Although there is still scientific uncertainty..."—it's reading directly, article 38b. This law therefore has serious debates and is only a delusion of greatness. What's the matter? That the People's Party publicly claims it's a health law, but what you really like in private is that it's a law that restricts rights. And that's why they like it too much. And that's not what we're going to support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u54	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u55	Good morning. I'm going to start by saying that this bill that brings here today the People's Party is for the BNG remissable both in the form and at the bottom. This is the way because it is curious, after the President of the Board has been announcing for months and demanding the need to amend the health legislation, announcing the presentation of the amendment of the Health Act — including the 29 October Board of Boards, and the official information of the Board of Boards says that the Board will reform Galician Health Law to count on an adapted regulation to deal with the pandemic, and curiously reports a series of arguments which Mr. Puy gave here today, with which I suppose he will come here today as a delegate of the Government and not as a spokesperson of the People's Party — it is surprising, therefore, that it is not the Boards who present a bill that he announced, which led to the Board of Boards, but rather, to surprise!, he does not present it to the Boards but the People's Party. It would be good if today's government delegate, Mr. Puy, would explain to us why, the reason. As much as the confusion between the Government and the party is customary — it's something that the People's Party practice with a lot of profusion — it's always surprising. And maybe it has something to do with skipping all the pre-emptive reports that I would have to bring this law if I came here presented by the Government and not by the People's Party. Well, it's more than a doubt that they were favorable. For example, the report on the gender impact issued by the General Secretariat of Equality says on page 4 that "it is necessary to make an observation about the consequence that the practical application of this forecast may have for people who have the status of victims of gender-based violence" — if they are sanctioned, because they may be left out of that consideration, and on the help of it—. Say it to the General Secretariat of Equality. Or, of course, it would be interesting to see the legal reports on how fundamental rights can be defined in an ordinary health law. It would also be very interesting to know those legal reports. We could talk about what the ESC's assessment would be, perhaps, of all those reports. This is certainly why they use this joint mechanism in a bill announced at the board of directors, drafted at the board — obviously because it has the same content — but presented in Parliament by the People's Party and defended today by Mr. Puy Fraga as a government delegate. So there's more than obvious discrepancy about the Galician Nationalist Block as to how and how it is presented by the emergency procedure. It's a law announced for months now, which was urgent, which was necessary, which was essential because, otherwise, there would be no mechanisms to act. And it takes months to face it and then they do it by an emergency mechanism maybe not because it's so urgent -- because everything here is looking at is applying it in one or another measure -- but to insist on the idea that things go wrong because Together has no tools to be able to effect them. I think it has more to do with that than with reality. And there is discrepancy, of course, at the bottom, because the People's Party intends to regulate in a law of ordinary use an entirely extraordinary situation, which seeks to regulate hot in the middle of a pandemic as we have not known another, with the Welsh and Welsh in shock state and with great uncertainty as to what may happen, which we consider to be a genuine irresponsibility. And it only has an explanation, from our point of view, of the race in which the People's Party is immersed — and Nuñez Fexóo in particular — from the start of the campaign, installed in the permanent campaign of the daily commercial spot instead of leading the situation, putting itself forward and providing solutions. Instead of taking responsibility, choose easy. And the easy one is to blame others, to derive responsibility for individual responsibility so it seems to be a personal problem, which is a problem that either this person or that group skip the established measures; instead of addressing it as a collective issue, it moves responsibility to the Greeks and the Greeks as if the situation was responsible for the non-compliances of the Greeks and the Greeks in order to conceal that in health, education, social services, employment, the results have much more to do with social investment, economic investment or political investment that takes place and not with individual behaviours — which, of course, the Greek people are being exemplary in that individual compliance with the measures being implemented. And the PP is pushing a law of coercive measures, a law of coercive, little to do with a law of health change, which can be summed up in cutting rights and freedoms, and in sanctions to strengthen the account of that individual responsibility and criminalization. It tells the People's Party that it is necessary to amend the law because it is not appropriate to declare a state of continuous alarm before each outbreak and therefore makes a state of permanent alarm. It is not appropriate to declare the alarm status when appropriate, but it is best, in a health care, to have a permanent alarm state to apply it when they consider it necessary, without any type of control. And, therefore, it presents this restriction law. This proposal for a law — which is certain — sets time limits for the implementation of these measures, which are, to an important extent, the elimination of fundamental rights. And it does not set time limits for the enforcement of measures. He says, "...as long as it takes..." Great legal guarantee is how long it takes! Come on, in any democratic state it would be considered fantastic! It does not establish any obligation to render accounts to the Government, it does not have to render accounts anywhere, nor does it have to come to this Parliament to explain what it is applying for how long or why. Democratic everything! It's all tremendously democratic! The People's Party is responsible for the brutal deterioration of public health. Mr. Puy said at first that he found us this pandemic without legal legislation to meet this need. What he found us was without an agreed sanity to defend and deal with this situation. That doesn't mean to hear anything from the People's Party. For the person responsible for the deterioration of public health and that he is in a situation that does not deal with the previous situation and that of the pandemic speaks of this need and of having instruments to fight effectively against the pandemic. Instruments are such as those I said before: restrictions and restrictions. And the main tool to fight the pandemic is a strong health system, with sufficient professionals, with decent working conditions. That is a powerful tool to fight against the pandemic. And does this amendment to the Health Act that the People's Party presents measures to rectify this roadmap and strengthen public health? The answer is, no. All expert people — and here's the Health Counsellor — claim by active and passiveness that, in the fight against cowardice, primary care is fundamental, a key piece. Do you see this amendment to the Health Act any measures to strengthen primary care as a key piece? The answer is, no. All expert people claim that an efficient tracking system is fundamental. Early detection of positives, identifying them, isolating them and tracking contacts is crucial. Do you see this amendment of the Health Act, theoretically, to fight against the pandemic, any measures to have an effective and efficient tracking system? No, not at all. Do you see this amendment to the Health Act any measures to strengthen the public health system, preventative medicine? The answer is, no. Do you see a change in the model of older residences — that the current one only seeks profit at the expense of our older ones — a change of model for a really socio-health model in which the elderly care from primary care? The answer is, no. Do you see mechanisms that allow you to anticipate, plan, design, strengthen? The answer is, no. Absolutely none of these fundamental issues to fight against a pandemic are of concern and occupation of the People's Party. Nothing is collected in this amendment of the Health Act and whether measures, all, totally coercive. The keyword for this change is the word "sanction", more than seventy times mentioned in this legislative amendment. It's 20 pages for the sanctioning regime. It establishes a regime of sanctions with a contia that can be considered obscene, obscene, of up to 600,000 euros, for people in many cases with really scarce economies. And legal security, which is one of the elements that the People's Party has taken on for the presentation of this bill, is certainly more than an inquisitive one. It establishes a whole series of preventive measures to be taken in the event that there is or reasonably suspected of an imminent risk. There's legal security! About this sentence is about which the suspension of fundamental rights is based, about that sentence. Of course, from BNG we think it's unacceptable and unacceptable to restrict such absolute fundamental rights on the basis of something so indeterminate. We can also say that Article 38 refers to taking measures even without administrative action. Everyone becomes a health authority without much knowing what he has to do, but everyone becomes a health authority, which is a genuine disincentive. One of the motivations to change the law, as it is to clearly delineate the actions in this epidemic...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u56	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u57	... that it does not delimite. Finished, President. It includes compulsory vaccination, as if in Galicia the problem of vaccination was a problem. It's the other way around. In Galicia we have the problem that people want to get vaccinated and there are no vaccines, as just happened on the subject of influenza, or as they had to go to their parents and mothers in Portugal to buy vaccines because there were no vaccines in Galicia. And they don't include the organization, the distribution device of the vaccine application. That's not included, but it's compulsory in a country like ours where there's no such problem, or such questions, which, of course, does not seem to us to receive. That's why I ended up saying that soon the board invites and the municipalities pay; a scandalous sanctioning regime, but then the application of that sanctioning regime runs mostly because of the municipalities, which in a very important part have no local police.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u58	So this change...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Prado...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u60	...the law does not intend to improve the health of the population, of the Greeks and the Greeks, but...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u61	...time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u62	...to make a very serious limitation of rights...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u63	Thanks, time's up. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica from the proposed author group, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u64	I want to thank some — not really — for the proposed considerations they have made to improve this bill. We expect your amendments, which I suppose will also be well informed by numerous legal bodies, to try to improve the law that we present as a group today. I am glad of that, but I am deeply sorry that both the Bloc and the Socialist Party are against regulating by law the limitations to the practice of rights which impose a pandemic which is in fact already being applied without legal backing and solely with judicial control. You obviously prefer that the shift leader say at every moment what can be done or not. That is the situation we want to correct, which we want to correct at the level of Spain and which we want to correct at the level of Galicia. You feel comfortable with this practice, and the most curious thing is that they say this law, which regulates by law how rights are exercised, is authoritarian. Mr. Torrado, allow me to say that particular part I don't take it seriously. You prefer to act without legal limits of any kind and only with jurisdiction as a means of recourse to citizenship. And we understand that this must be regulated legally and also subject, as not!, to the courts' jurisdiction. They say this law is a Bolivarian drift. To me, Mr. Torrado, I would like to ask you what Bolivarian drift we speak of, if from the Bolivarian drift that defends Mr. Borrell or the Bolivarian drift that defends Mr. Zapatero. I think you should focus on what is Bolivarian or not, because sometimes it's a great democracy that we don't all understand, including Mr Borrell. [[Applause]] If you had read the explanatory statement of the law with some arrest, you'd see that there's an entire page dedicated to explaining what the Constitutional Court says about the development of a constitutionally collected right, which can be done, when it's a direct development, through an organic law or, if not, through an ordinary law. And in fact, if you take the Health Act of the year 2008 of Galicia, you'll see that there are many things that are imposed on citizens, as is natural; because the exercise of rights, directly, is regulated by organic law, but all the regulation that exists, from the traffic code to any other issue that imposes fines and sanctions, etc., is done with legal coverage. And the evidence is that you yourself, from the municipalities — since many of you rule — have been demanding clear regulations on which sanctions could impose or not the municipalities. And we bring a law here and you say there's no need for law and it's Bolivarian. Look, I'm so sorry about the confusion you have, as you're confused with the fact that you voted for the PP in the Congressional Reconstruction Commission. The PP voted that if the health proposals were accepted after amendments were accepted, it was applauded by its Government and that there was at least a consensus in health matters. What's going on is that we come to a consensus to reform the State Health Act and you've done it, but you'll know why. And in that statement, what is said is that self-health laws are also reformed — which is what we intend to do, and now we see that with your vote against. You prefer regulations. All right, alleluia! live the regulations and that the laws do not apply to anything. I don't really understand this much. Mrs. Prado, of course this law has legal reports. First, those who support the People's Parliamentary Group's own action. But from now on, it is subject to legal control that will exercise the lawyers who advise the Galician Nationalist Group and the Galician Socialist Party. Because I suppose the 67 bills that the opposition has brought in the past legislation to this House would come with good legal reports. I don't want to devalue the ability to present legal claims and technically correct to a bill. And, of course, there is the legal control exercised by the House's lawyers, which, if you see any questions contrary to legality or to the Constitution, will warn you. [[Applause]] And of course, the state administration's control over all the legal processes that autonomic parliaments make is active. Call me "government delegate." Well, look, you confuse what is a government delegate with the spokesman of a majority, in which among other things is the president and ten members of the government. What this confusion can come from is, logically, in Mrs Prado's case — which she said she worked here as a government delegate — that you, when you were in government, had a spokesperson who was the minority who opposed the government in Parliament. [[Applause]] Well, we, fortunately, don't have that problem. We are a group that presides over the President of the Board, Mr Feijóo, and of what I have the honour — it is his confidence that my colleagues give me and that I thank them very much — for being his spokesman. [[Applause]] About sanctions, there's an experiment that we just lived through, which is what happened in Sweden. Sweden was relying on social and individual responsibility until November 20, so they come to the conclusion that confidence in people and their individual behavior does not serve to fight against the pandemic. And what they do is they introduce a system of time restrictions on the sale of alcohol and immediately a system of sanctions which, in the case of Sweden, reaches six months in prison for those who violate the rules. Therefore, to say that this law imposes sanctions when there are no sanctions and when they are necessary, as the Swedish fact proves, it seems to me that it is to live in the worlds of Yupi, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u65	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u66	I'm very sorry, but the rules, fortunately, are met when the vast majority, as is the case in Galicia and Spain, meet the standards by conviction. But there are always people, like those who did the party in Pontevedra or elsewhere, who violate the rules. And for that, of course, the only thing that should be punished. Vaccine is not mandatory and therefore this law does not make it compulsory. But what would happen if the State — which Mr. Illa said it would not in principle be compulsory — the mandatory bridge? If the State declares that vaccination is mandatory, this law provides for the situation of vaccination when it is compulsory. In the meantime, obviously, compulsory work does not work and does not exist.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u67	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u68	It's over, Mr. President. Today you have made an allusion to social psychology. And today comes a very interesting interview by Professor Sabucedo — whom you and I know — in which he says political confrontation and polarization leads to a loss of confidence in institutions and a relaxation against the virus. He says contradictory messages make the response not uniform and the pandemic keep growing. And he also says that the economic and social consequences of the pandemic, which discredit institutions, which open up is the field of populism. We certainly agree with this, and therefore I ask you at least to take responsibility...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u69	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u70	...that we are asking for the entire citizenship, and also the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u71	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u72	We shall vote on the legislative texts. We do it together. We voted for the amendments to the whole refund presented to the Bill of Museums and other museum centres in Galicia. We vote. Voting amendments to the whole of the GGs. PP. the Galego Nationalist Block and the Galician Socialists, presented to the Project of Law of Museums and other Museums of Galician Centers. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected as a whole and the bill continues its parliamentary process.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u73	We are now voting together, too, on the amendments to the draft legislation on waste and contaminated soils in Galicia. Voting Voting amendments to the whole of the GGs. PP. the Galego Nationalist Block and the Galician Socialists, presented to the Galician Contaminated Waste and Land Law Project. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected as a whole and the project continues its parliamentary process.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u74	Finally, we voted on the proposal for a People's Parliamentary Group Bill amending Law 8/2008 of 10 July 2008 on health in Galicia. We vote. Vote on the proposal for a law of the G.P. Galician people, amending Law 8/2008, of 10 July, of Galician health. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. The adoption of this bill is therefore approved and will therefore continue its parliamentary process.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u75	Here are the votes of the legislative texts. The various changes that were on the agenda have already been reported and the motions are now being debated. G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantiños, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in relation to the impact on the Greek economy of the consolidation of poverty and social exclusion and the repercussions of the crisis of coward 19
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u76	An amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u77	To formulate the motion, you have the floor to Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u78	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. Today, with this motion, from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, we propose a package of urgent measures to intervene in what we consider to be one of the main humanitarian and economic problems our country has, which is the worsening of poverty in this context of the cowardice. We insist again: for us poverty is, above all, a problem of human rights, but it cannot be denied that it is also a huge economic problem. It is also the result of an economic system which has been to consolidate inequality in the place of combat and which we should therefore aspire to transform. We understand that poverty must be tackled in addition to all its dimensions, not only from the point of view of care but from a transformative point of view — also in its structure — and transversal. In fact, fifteen days ago, when we had the question that gave rise to this motion, I recalled the words of Eloine Ingerto — the President of the Galician Network against Poverty — in the Reactivation Commission, which rightly told us that poverty does not understand advice, that people's lives were not organized in councils and that they had to go beyond confining poverty — as is done on occasion — in the Social Policy Council. To show, one button: we respect the Government's decision on who came to answer our questions, but it is still symptomatic that, with two advisors responsible for economic management in the structure of the Government, an interpellation focused on the economic sphere had come to respond to the adviser responsible for social policy. We think it's something respectable, logically, but it obviously points out that, indeed, those recriminations or approaches that Mrs Ingerto was doing are more current than ever. And today we also want to insist that poverty is, in addition, a growing problem that is going to worsen considerably, which is already getting worse in this context of Galicia and which is therefore not stable. And we think the worst thing that can happen to us about this is a little bit what we sometimes say would be the worst thing that could happen to us with the pandemic, which is to normalize, naturalize, its results in terms of human life. Well, with poverty, the same thing happens. The worst thing that could happen to us at this historic moment is to assume that it is normal for poverty to increase to unsustainable points and that we have to assume it naturally. We believe that this is not the case, and today we are calling for a change in the direction of budgetary and economic policies, because we especially have the conclusion of what has happened in recent years, when the balance of the 2008 crisis is that poverty has been consolidated in our country. And that's what we see every quarter in the structural household survey. But we also see it in such dramatic results that in the closure of 2019 we had almost a quarter of the population at risk of poverty and social exclusion. But from 2018 to 2019 they also increased, and from 2017 to 2018 they also increased, when gross domestic product has grown in our economy since 2014. So the question is, before the pandemic, did the decade of People's Party government serve to reduce poverty in our country? The answer is clearly no, neither recovery since 2008 nor healthy growth nor social cohesion. So in today's day, the corrections that are being made so that this doesn't get any worse. And we have symptoms that unfortunately will be like this, because we have the economic and labor context that was already pre-pandamy and we have the most immediate consequences. Thus, the expert voices point out that, for example, something like getting a decent job already at the time prepandemia was very difficult, and that precisely that tool that should prevent many people from falling into poverty or making it easier for many people to get out of that poverty situation doesn't happen. And now, with an unprecedented economic crisis, the escalation is surely unprecedented. Poverty is not going to progress linearly or statistically, relatively controlled — as it was happening in recent years — but it is now as if there was a tobogan that plunges many social groups down, towards poverty rates that are not acceptable. Now the pandemic is the immediate reason for that increase, but it's not the only one; the deepest is the economic and labor model. And we have, for example, the latest employment data, which are tremendously worrisome and do not correspond to the conformist speech which often has the Galician Union. Without going further, the employment data we knew a few days ago tell us that almost 25% of the new unemployed people in the Spanish state were in Galicia in November. We were the first community where unemployment grew the most in absolute terms and the second in relative terms. Social Security contributions also fell. And I also look at the type of unemployment: more than 187,000 unemployed people, 45% will not have access to a taxpayer's benefit. This is added to other structural facts that are serious and worrying. The most transversal, along with the question of employment, is certainly the question of housing. The high expenditure on housing captures most of the incomes of families and households. So, although in many of them there are rents, that can't ensure there's a decent housing. Housing is one of the fundamental problems. It is also a matter of concern in this context that we deduce from the budgets we are having in the House, which do not show any concern on the part of the Government for correcting fiscal policy, nor for correcting labour or housing economic issues, nor even for seeking a truly cross-cutting approach to poverty and how to deal with them. So today, what we propose here is five measures that we consider urgent, without losing sight of the fact that what should motivate us is a cross-sectional and deep change in policies to really act on the roots of impoverishment and prevent copper-19 from being a brutal divide from the social point of view. So, in this five emergency package, the first one is to know, because what you don't study can't be shortened, what you don't talk about can't be corrected. We therefore stress once again that it is already a huge shortage that we are starting this legislation — that we are dealing with its first budgets — and that the Galician Union was not yet worthy of a complete study of the phenomenon of poverty and the risk of social exclusion and its impact on the economy. What we propose is that it be done and that it be agreed with social and political agents on a multiannual time horizon of budgets and economic departures for this matter. Secondly, there is a lot of urgency to address, and that is why we propose a social emergency plan for our country which includes effective measures of an economic nature, such as, for example, something as elementary as the fulfilment of the deadlines for the collection of social benefits and measures for evictions; or something as elementary as a design that is transversal and that is also consensual with the professionals of the social services, social movements, trade unions and social agents involved. We also propose, thirdly, that there be a commitment to the future. Today, while we have the debates in this House, there is a debate outside it that is also fundamental to our country, which is whether or not this veto will actually be verified, for example, from Hungary and Poland to European funds. In the memory of budgets, the risk of minorities in the community's own collection is taken up. We also know that, from the state-level scenario, it would not be disposable, nor would it be a reduction in income expected from that area. What we propose at the third point is that we make a country pact for the fight against poverty. Because institutional statements are very good, but it would be very good if the government-supporting group were to vote on this point, which says that, if at some point there are restrictions on spending because of this type of income, it doesn't affect social policies. Because, in fact, we don't trust each other. We know what was done in this country in the decade when the financial crisis was paid, in which it was precisely basic public services and programmes as important as these first affected. So what we're proposing is that, if there's a reduction in income in the next few years, there's a pact in this country so that it doesn't affect social divides. And thirdly, we understand that we have to help those who help. In these months and weeks, we have a lot of debates on sectors that are particularly affected by the pandemic, which have reduced their incomes — for example, small and small self-sufficients — and how we have to help them. We understand that the Galician Union also has to assume that the third sector is assuming in some cases exorbitant expenses, because it is precisely fulfilling the role that the Greek administration should have. And so it's logical — or it's fair — that aid that already exists or that specific help is available to these entities, so they can also address the situation of the coward and the over effort that they are making those to whom we have to be grateful and grateful. We also include a question of ensuring that everyone can have an income. I believe that the words already go up on the absolute fiasco that is being the minimum vital income, but also on the absolute relaxation that the Galician Union has on this matter. So we include here that we take the necessary legislative measures to support these aids but also to have ambition for the future and to aspire to complement that so that it can be a true Welsh income of social inclusion. Finally, and returning to what I said in the midst of my intervention that housing is an essential issue, we simply propose that the Gaga Network's demands against poverty be met. Because — I insist — institutional statements remain very well in this Parliament, but they would be better drawn up in these budgets, and starting with three: a specific line in budgets on the issue of rejections, that strategy for eradicating chabolism and infra-vivalism — which is especially necessary at this time — and the full implementation of the care plan for homeless people in Galicia. So we understand that within the housing issue these would be the three most urgent of the total that promotes the Galician Network against Poverty. In any case, I would like to point out that we do not include our electoral programme there on the issue of housing — and I will finish, Mr President — but rather the proposals of a legitimate entity that we all respect, and that in other matters, such as that basic card, Galician Union gave its arm to twist and succeed. So we invite you to follow that line.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u79	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u80	As I say, there are five urgent proposals that would not be the great transversal change that we need but that would be an important step in this complicated social context. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u82	Thank you, President. We found ourselves in a very complex context derived from an unprecedented pandemic, but the fact is that there was already alarming information in Galicia regarding the data of Greeks and Greeks in the face of economic difficulties that stem from poverty. Two years ago the Economic and Social Council warned that the expected improvement had not occurred for the Greeks most affected by the economic crisis. In particular, they warned that inequality, precarious employment and low wages remained in Galicia despite the rise in economic data started in 2014. And in this study they collected a number of data on economic weaknesses in Galicia, which indicated that, after nine quarters of GDP growth in 2017 was equal to or greater than 3%, the level of employment in Galicia was still below the level of employment in 2008. Even so, the Economic and Social Council demanded a model of more inclusive growth, with less inequality and a more equitable distribution of wealth. The percentage of Welsh and Welsh people who lived by then under the poverty line was already significant, growing more than two points over the previous decade. And Ourense stood out as the province that suffered the worst situation. A year ago, in 2019, the data were highly worrisome. With regard to child poverty, in particular, one in five children was at risk of poverty and exclusion. Besides, 655,000 people, exactly 24.3% of the population of Greece, were already at risk of poverty or social exclusion. And in July this year, EAPN Galicia — the Welsh Network against Poverty, which represents more than 130 organizations in the third sector, of social action — published the progress of the results of a study on the subject. In this study it was reported that Galicia is one of five autonomous communities across the country that reduced the average income compared to the previous year. As for the poverty rate, at the national level, less than an average point was reduced, and increased in six autonomous communities in Spain. One of which unfortunately increases its poverty rate is Galicia. The other relevant data regarding Galicia in this study is regarding the severe material deficiency, where they textually indicate: "Increased significantly in Galicia". This type of data contextualizes that in Galicia before the pandemic there was already a worrying situation, with worse data than the national average. That's why we need to deepen today more than ever, given the pandemic we are living in, and how it can affect our economy and society. The fact is we're close to Christmas dates and food banks are organized in many places for those people who are in a limited position. This fact reflects the assistanceism of which we must flee by a right-based approach. But this reality is showing us that many of the people who worked with food banks last year are today users of the food banks. Hard reality hits hard when most people never think to see this reality and perceive it far but suddenly they're inside. So it's a reality that affects us all as a society and that we have to fight. The most serious of this harsh reality is that he has a child's or a child's face. We cannot allow the rate of child poverty in Galicia to continue to rise, considering that in 2019 it was already 26% and even in provinces like Ourense and Lugo it was up to 30%. We must break the circle of inequality of opportunities in which these minors are immersed. We cannot allow poverty to inherit from parents to children. We are in a resourced society, which has to offer true equal opportunities. Our children are not the future, they are the present. From EPAPN Galicia, in attendance at the Reactivation Commission, highlighted the word "emergency." We find ourselves in an emergency situation, in which we need to deepen with exceptional policies and in a cross-key. It does not serve in this context what it served in previous years. The Government that supports the fear of the Galician Union has to carry out a powerful plan of reactivation in which the key is its own coordination between areas. All councils must join efforts towards the same goal in community. Cannot fit the uncoordinated in this context. A powerful plan in this context will not be possible if data from the Greek budget shows that matches such as health or education, for example, lower their relative weight. We cannot coordinate a powerful plan if the social inclusion programme and welfare pensions, social policy, loses relative weight. An effective plan is not possible if the assumptions in Galicia forget our youth by reducing the specific games for youth. Nor will it be possible to reactivate if there is no investment in housing, or in the promotion of employability, which even loses relative weight. Movements against poverty in Galicia are clear, indicating that one of the most affected sectors will be that of minors and youth itself. We cannot allow Galicia to live another migration wave that affects our youth, either by the demographic challenge or by country strategy or by justice. As you know, the media have noticed that almost 5,000 Thursdays return with their parents when they can't afford the rent. We must put a solution as soon as possible and prevent this, preventing this crisis from limiting autonomy, as happened in the past crisis, which limited the autonomy and emancipation that corresponds to age in the life cycle itself. It happened in the previous crisis, which condemned a whole generation, which extended too long the youth scheme as to the dependence of parents and mothers themselves and condemned many to have to pack up in search of opportunities. We can't afford to lose more youth for justice and for our Greek people. We don't want to see more headlines like this, like the one that nearly 50,000 young people left Galicia in the last decade to go abroad. [[Applause]] Some days ago I read in the media that the German Government will pay an extra to those who cover the minimum vital income if it is formed to get a job. This kind of paternalist action, conditioning resources to the most vulnerable people in a crisis context like this, are regrettable. People don't stop finding the job because they don't want to be trained. Clearly, no one decides to find himself for pleasure in asking for a Risk or a minimum vital income. The Greek Government has to change its chip and start working on risk reform already to allow compatibility and subsidiarity with the minimum vital income. We do not want to think that the German Government is waiting for the transfer of Risga users to the minimum vital income to save this budget — taking into account that 70% of households benefiting from autonomous income already have the minimum vital income; in particular, 9,000 households. The key is that both of them work together and the Government designs a employability plan so that people who are receiving these benefits can have a decent job and the autonomy they need. We said from social movements in the fight against poverty: less courses and more jobs. All councils are and are social politics. Push and investment in employment today is more important than ever. And of course we have to work in quality, pushing among other things the talent associated with the contour. Galicia has a potential to develop in industry and tourism, as well as in other sectors. Work between administrations and coordination will be necessary. The State has been involved in measures such as the ERTE, which have waged nearly 650,000 Welsh and Welsh, as well as 90,000 German and German autonomouss have also benefited from aid — with almost EUR 1,100 million in addition to ordinary transfers due to the crisis of the coward. We need all the administrations to work together and there is a coordinated and cross-sectional action plan between councils to ensure that the management of these funds is optimal and results in an early reactivation of our country, which is an exceptional moment and requires exceptional measures. In the area of poverty, Community social services are a key factor. We don't understand how the government budget budgets for the municipalities are reduced, and more given the moment we're living and the additional effort that they've made and done in this pandemic, with the overcost that it means. But it's complex to assume this fact in a socio-health crisis in which the work of the local social services will be vital, where the first contact between the Administration and the harsh reality begins, where the cases that are capable of being treated are detected, where the names and names of the figures are put. Another key is to work where skilled people in the fight against poverty are affected: in housing. Many people affected by the crisis, or already touched before they have no resources, we know that they prioritize spending even at the cost of the quality of food. This is a particularly serious fact in homes with minors in charge. Residential exclusion in 2008 was 35% of the population of Greece, according to the report by FOESSA — more than half of its income in housing-related payments. "Don't have a decent home, and with agony," they read from EAPN the words of the people affected at a meeting of participation in the sector. Even so, they were asking for a parliamentary committee to be set up on residential exclusion, which we share. It is complex to say that Galicia has completed the legislation with less protected housing completed since data exist, or that Galicia leads the empty housing park by 18% — five points more than the average —. It's essential to bet on access to housing, as well as on rent. The feminization of poverty, exclusion, the face of a child or a child, of boys and girls, people with disabilities or dependence...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u83	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u84	...show the face of a complex situation. Without coordination between councils and administrations, the fight against poverty will not be possible. It's urgent, more than ever, a very powerful reactivation plan. We don't want to lose more generations of boys and girls and, above all, we can't allow any minor to go through difficulties in our society. Coordination will be key. We make it possible because no one is free to fall into danger. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u85	Thank you, Mrs Ortega. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pérez López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u86	Good morning, President, Bureau members, ladies and gentlemen. I agree with you, I think that almost exclusively, in that the crisis generated by the coward-19 -- unimaginable a year ago for these dates -- will undoubtedly pose a challenge for the administration, the business fabric, the social groups, and the thousands of Galicians and the Greeks. The Galician Nationalist Block Group today brings a motion to this plenary today on a complex and important issue, a subject that many talk about, but few try to solve. We miss the concrete measures, Mrs. Presas, that you announced in your inquiry that you were going to bring. Because those five emergencies that you are presenting today are completely covered by the German Government right now. Look, they've been with the same speech for years, insinuating a conformist attitude of the German Government, which is not real at all. They've been insinuating a more unequal Galicia since you lost the government, which is not real at all. And they've been insinuating cosmetic measures for years, which are not real at all. And they continue to say today that the Government of the People's Party has done nothing to reduce poverty, despite the fact that the European Union's risk of poverty and social exclusion — AROPE — says that Galicia is one of the eight autonomous communities that has managed most to reduce its rate. We don't look at the rate according to our convenience, and I have doubts as to how you do it. Look, I got her here. You can take it right or wrong, but Galicia is still the fourth community that has reduced the rate of poverty. [[Mrs. Pérez López shows a chart from the stage.]] They give one of which and one of sand. You remembered today words from the President of the Galician Network against Poverty. But the other day they were able to question Mrs Ingerto's own words in this House. And it's obvious, depending on where the debate takes place, the curve analyzed since the year 2009 -- we just heard it here now. This is the curve since 2008. [[Mrs. Pérez López shows a chart from the stage.]] You can see it right, or you can see it backwards, but it's still under the national average. Or look at this other map that I'm going to bring to you, where you can perfectly visualize GDP per capita by autonomous communities. Do I tell you who rules Extremadura, who rules Castela-A Mancha or who ruled until recently Andalusia? [[Mrs. Pérez López shows a map from the platform.]] Look, we'll keep working, because everything is better, but of course we're not going to allow -- we're not going to do it -- to cut ourselves off from conformists or to carry out just aesthetic measures. We agree with you that we are facing a moment when everyone — and I say all — must add effort and reach our shoulder more than ever. And I tell you this, Mrs. Ortega and Mrs. Presas, because six days ago the worst budgets for Galicia have been approved in the Central Government for decades, some budgets based on an unreal increase in income -- and I don't say so, said the International Monetary Fund -- and they punish the Greeks and the Greeks without mercy, but with greater hardness, Mrs. Presas and Mrs. Ortega, those who today find themselves in a situation of vulnerability. [[Applause]] On the contrary, Galicia assumes with its budgets — the highest budgets in our history — a greater protagonist and the responsibility it is to us, with which the Autonomic Administration plans to face, with significant social expenditure, the consequences of this pandemic. We will continue to work to create opportunities in this community and continue with the actions carried out over these months. The Social Recovery Plan, the one you want to call "Emergency Plan" and that they say there isn't, is real. It is endowed with more than 70 million euros and has enabled to strengthen and speed up the risk — 3,168 benefits from March to October. It allowed for more than 50% increase in the shares of the AIS — 1,756 in the same period —. He gave extraordinary help to the municipalities to care for homeless people and social emergency aid. And it allowed the basic card to be launched — praised by all social entities — that dignifies people and that you yourself applauded, both by your speed and by your measure. There's the Home Help Service, the Extraordinary Care Bonus, the increase of lunch in the house... and it could still be listed. They're talking about the attention of social initiative entities. There's a first order in June of 1.5 million euros and a higher order, about 18 million, of aid to fund nearly a thousand programmes targeted at people at risk of exclusion. You still haven't found out, because if you hadn't, they wouldn't bring it today as an urgent measure to this plenary session. We will also continue to work on the renewal of the Single Social Agenda, which, following this Government's line of permanent contact with society, will work in collaboration with social entities and local entities. Look, today we are talking here about poverty, social exclusion and the repercussions of the cowardly 19 crisis. And bring it to this plenary session those who with their vote have facilitated the investment of a government that has been for months by collecting the VAT from the masks and deceiving about 2,700,000 Welsh people, among whom the people we are debating today, Mrs. Presas. [[Applause]] The most vulnerable people were the most disadvantaged. The president of the board asked IVE to be sent to the government on repeated occasions since April, because it was something he considered just. Mrs. Ortega, you had just landed from Madrid at the time. And you, Mrs. Presas, have agreed that this deception occurs until a few days ago, that they have begun to theatricalize the disenchantment with the continued ill-treatment of the central government in our country. [[Murmurs.]] Look, since the German Government, we are knowledgeable and knowledgeable about the needs of this country, and we are working on social inclusion in the broadest sense, in how we should do it. Because to achieve a fairer society is not just relying on the scope of social inclusion. They're asking us to create an emergency plan. Don't you think there's no better plan than to present the highest budgets in our country's history a few days ago? Does it not seem to you that there is no better plan than to spend €66.4 million on the fight against poverty — when you were in the middle of the 2008 crisis — to turn to 125 million now in the 2021 budget? Does it not seem to you that there is no better plan to increase the budgets of the Social Policy Council, a number of games that will continue to meet all demands to give an answer to everyone who needs it? Does it not seem to you that there is no better plan, Mrs Presas, to see the measures taken by the Social Policy Council to further develop the Programme, complemented by increases in the Housing Council, or that the increase in the budgets of the Economic Council or the Employment Council for the reactivation and recovery of the business fabric and the generation of employment and wealth? [[Applause]] Don't you think, gentlemen, that work, having a job, is the best way to leave poverty behind and get out of care? [[Murmurs.]] Madam Presas, the board is already working to redefine the risk and the benefits of social inclusion, to simplify them, to minimize bureaucracy and adapt them to the recent entry into force of the minimum vital income. But they're asking us for a little strict speed on their part in relation to the minimum vital income. Just a month ago the Government was still introducing changes into him and a little while ago — last week — he said he was going to change it again. Adapting to something that's not closed is a little difficult. That's why I'm surprised at the impetus they make in this House, and that they rub off when you cross the Padarnelo tunnel. I wish 70% — as Mrs Ortega said — of the people who are taking the risk were charging the minimum living income. [[Applause]] But, Mrs Ortega, I think it's not even 10 percent of the figure you mentioned, not 10 percent! I agree with you, Mrs Presas — because Mrs Ortega made no mention of that — at the bottom of the minimum vital income. For the first time, we agreed on the definition that we make of this income. It was a material fiasco, because the benefits do not reach the pockets of those who need it most, and a moral fiasco, because they were dedicated to creating — Mrs Ortega — expectations in June that you yourselves knew they were fireworks. They have in their hands right now to support this government to demand the transfer of management and funds to our community, just as they did and are doing with others. You will know, Mrs Ortega, the reasons why you and others don't. You should ask the Central Government instead of asking the Greek Government — as you said — to change the chip. I'm still shocked right now after hearing his speech. And I'm asking them to support the Government of Greece and ask them for their support with the complete conviction that the Greeks and the Greeks will benefit, because they support us for decades of experience in managing Galicia's Social Inclusion Report. Ladies and gentlemen, we have assumed the commitment and responsibility given to us by the Greeks and the Greeks last July. At the moment you need the most, Galicia will have more funds than ever to support the people and the groups who are facing the hardest face of the worst situation that we remember all of us here. I gave them objective data. Our plan is much more ambitious, and with concrete solutions, than you bring here today. And we're going to continue working with social entities and focusing on the most vulnerable people. I humbly admit that it is not all done and that we will continue to work. Therefore, let the Greeks and the Greeks at no time doubt that this Government will be able to quickly reach those most needy homes that present greater difficulties, that it will be able to reactivate the Greek economy, create quality jobs and continue to fight poverty. Nothing else on my part, and thanks a lot to everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the motion's own group, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u88	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Pérez, with all due respect, I believe that, given the serious situation that is going on at this moment probably more than a quarter of our country's population, with rates of risk of exclusion and poverty that I believe that all of us, regardless of our political differences, are aware that they are worrying — even though we differ in the solutions — should take this kind of debate with a little more seriousness. Because, of course, there are two traumas that I invite you to -- less when we talk about such delicate issues as this -- overcome. The first is that of the Bipartite. I didn't make a single mention of the Bipartite or 2009 in my intervention. In other words, I'll tell you that I didn't even have the right to vote when the Bipartite entered this country. In any case, you've come here with the mackerel that we're the ones who haven't passed. I don't know that from an election. Look, those who don't go beyond that government are you. They really overcome that mental trauma and assume that we are in 2020 in an unprecedented crisis and that action must be taken. And at some point it will cease to be a valid argument for you to refer obsessively to that government, which, in fact, was a great government and so you remain traumatized ten years later. But surreno! And whenever they want, we have a monographic debate, but really... [[Applause]] And the second question is that of state budgets. Because, of course, what bothers the People's Party is not these terrible budgets. What bothers you is that the BNG kept his word, his dignity, and voted against and tabled amendments. That's what bothers them! [[Applause]] Then whoever comes to play here is the People's Party, and accuses us of doing theater! [[Strong murmurers.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, welcome to complaints against central governments that don't treat Galicia well. Welcome! We have no problem voting with you when it comes to criticizing these kinds of issues. [[Strong murmurers.]] But please don't divert these debates. [[Applause]] Then, of course, how are we not going to talk about...? Anyway, before I forget, we would also thank them for trying not to lie. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because, of course, you came to say that we in the previous intervention what we did was to demean and question Mrs Ingerto's words. At all, and I don't think it enriches the parliamentary debate for nothing to come into that kind of falsity. Because we recognize the Network to the point that we have no problem recognizing issues here when the German Government rectifies and does them well. I put an example: you assumed the basic card proposal as claimed by this body. This body congratulated us in this House and we don't fall down because we recognize that was a necessary measure and that the approach is appropriate. But you come here with a prefabricated speech because what you don't like is dialogue. And that's what explains that you didn't even bother to present an amendment to this so terrible lack of compliance with the BNG amendment. Of course, it comes here above saying that we do not present concrete measures. Is it not a concrete step to promote a cross-sectional study on the situation of poverty in this country and to agree with the social agents taken and budget planning for the next five years? Isn't that concrete? It's abstraction, it's a rhetorical figure... isn't it concrete a social emergency plan with specific measures for the collection of disqualification benefits and other issues that must also be consistent with the social services of our country? Maybe what they don't like is the consensus part, but it's concrete. One thing is they don't like, but concrete is. Of course, you're talking here about the tallest budgets in history. But I asked the Government of the People's Party a very clear question: if there is a reduction in these budgets because in 2021 and 2022 we cannot have that high expenditure ceiling, or because the European funds, which are in question, are not coming in time, or because since the evil government of Mr. Pedro Sánchez doesn't be handed over to Galicia the tale that would correspond to the money he'll receive, what are you going to do? What they have here is that concrete commitment to say here -- and that remains in the Journal of Sessions -- that they will not cut social divides. But they don't, because we know we can't trust you to do it, because that's your political, economic and social model. It is the model that effectively consolidated poverty in the previous economic and financial crisis. Of course you do! [[Applause]] That's what bothers them. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Is it not practical to ask that the specific aid orders for sectors particularly affected by cod should take into account the situation of the third sector, which is taking on intractable costs of staff recruitment, management, emergency hiring such as food banks? Wouldn't it be fair to see it also as an economic sector more than those damaged by the coward? They're not profiting from the greatest burden of work, they're all the opposite. Is it not concrete to bet on actually correcting the shortcomings of this vital minimum income and the lack of permanent time of the Galician Union, which does not bring a legal change to this Parliament? Let us reach a consensus, but with the horizon of having something better than that vital minimum income and that Risk, which is not covering the needs. Of course, what happens is that they don't amend to then mount a "numerity" in their non-law proposition, I imagine. And I'm done with this issue, Mr President. You say we're missing about the Galician Network against Poverty, but who does it is the People's Party, because here are three concrete proposals that are not BNG's program, that are Glaga Network's proposals against Poverty and that you're going to veto them without bothering to present an amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Do you accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u90	And the amendment of the Socialist Party is not going to accept it because we understand it distorts sense.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u91	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Juan Carlos Francisco Rivera, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in relation to the economic crisis and the social situation generated by the coward-19
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u92	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion, Mr. Francisco Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u93	Yes, Mr. President. Good morning to all, ladies and gentlemen. In fact, 15 days ago we had a debate in this House, an appeal which we had made to the Economic Counsellor and in which we were proposing a series of measures that we understand are necessary to combat the current economic crisis — in the face of an eminently complex and difficult situation that the country as a whole is going through, especially certain economic areas by all known people. And today we bring a motion that we understand is acquitted because at this moment we are debating, in this House, the budgets of the Galician Union and, therefore, we will frame the motion within the possibilities and budgetary capacities that we understand that the Union has to carry forward all the requests we make in this motion. Of course, with this motion we're not making a toast to the sun or we're asking for absolutely nothing impossible. This is a motion that responds to the need to give an agile, effective and immediate response to a situation that becomes dramatic, especially for the most affected economic sectors. It is true that we are in the face of an asymmetric crisis, where the impact of the asymmetric crisis is different depending on economic activity, but we all agree that there is a forceful and very strong impact on pemes and on self-employed people, especially on those self-employed who, as a result of the confinement measures imposed by the Galician Union, have been forced to close their business. I speak logically of the hostel, although there are indeed more activities — linked to self-employed people and pemmes — totally badly damaged, such as travel agencies, small trade, nightlife, etc. Finally, we know that no one has any magic solutions for this, nor do we ask that the Galician Union adopt magic solutions or impossible ones. We are asking for answers to this situation within the budgetary capacity of Junta. In 2020, the Galician Union perceived something as well as 735 million to fight against the effects of the pandemic. It is true that some of them — 417, if I am not mistaken — were for health expenses, 93 for education expenses and 224 million to compensate for the fall in activity, income for falling activity. Well, in view of this situation, there is indeed a level of response that we understand was effective and powerful at a given time by the State — and that it is still — maintaining and creating a social shield that also allowed Galicia to maintain the economic activity and the employment of thousands and thousands of people through the ERAs and the benefits to the self-employed. We understand that, compared to Galicia, other autonomous communities have had a more packaging reaction, much more effective and faster; some of them have already adopted... [[Mr. Francisco Rivera addresses the Madam President.]] Madam President, if it's time for me to watch, it's just that I don't see how long I've been around.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u94	All right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u95	Sorry for the interruption. I'm still. He said that, indeed, there was a strong level of response also in autonomous communities in comparative terms. Some of them have established a second wave of aid now with regard to self-government and peas. There was also a reaction in the local eidus, especially in the municipalities — and the size of these — is equal. They reacted strongly and acted in the financing of economic activity in their municipalities, despite the fact that the municipalities have no competence in the financing of economic activity. They financed the most hit economic sectors directly, optimized their budget and used their remainder, even in a complex situation for the municipalities, low income and increased expenditure. From there we are drawn to the attention that the Galician Union also receives funds from the State to make transfers to local entities, especially to fight against the effects of the cowardice, and that local entities and municipalities still receive nothing. That is why it is good to hear and respond to what has been said in the Committee on Budgets, in the attendances that have been held in the House of Commons itself, to what the President of the Fegamp said, who spoke on behalf of the whole municipality, of the need for much more effective coordination of the Council of Galicia and the Councils, and to establish a follow-up commission on this matter. It called for more funding, from which we do not understand that in a budget that is certainly expansive as the current one, which incorporates 1,574 million extra expenditure, transfers to the municipalities are reduced by 6.4%. From that point on, it would also be advisable to hear the President of the Fegamp, who speaks on behalf of all municipalities, about the need to activate an extraordinary fund to meet the inappropriate expenses that are assuming the municipalities as a result of the cowardice, especially in regard to the disinfection of schools and social emergency aid. We are actually discussing this with Mr. Conde. Mr. Conde, at the Committee on Budgets' own meeting last week, continued to insist that the Galician Union had launched a EUR 1 billion plan to combat the effects of the pandemic on the economic environment. Then we were told that in the budget of 2021 there were 5,560 million euros. Well, the truth is, the aid is coming up for drops and it's not enough, they don't have packaging to impact a crisis like the one we're living in, like the one that the economic sectors of this country are living. Of course, we understand that the board budget allows for a much broader reaction than is currently being given. Indeed, we agree with Mr Conde that the budgets of the year 2021 are expansional budgets, some budgets that actually incorporate 1,574 million more spending capacity to the Galician Union — 685 million remitted by the State by assuming the deficit that is allowed to the Autonomous Community at 1.1%; 430 million euros of reindus funds and a higher debt capacity of the Union itself, also due to the remaining 1,1 % deficit. In that sense, we also make a call for the Union to exhaust its debt capacity and spending capacity in a situation like this. Finally, in view of these budgets of the Union, I will also be able to express the satisfaction that the House of Deputies will approve the budgetary procedure in respect of the general budgets of the State at least in Congress. This approval actually allows the budgets of the Union to be expansive, as is logical. Without budgets in the state, logically, these types of transfers, of which I am talking to them, would be absolutely impossible. That is why it seems incredible to us that the People's Party — a party that occupies the main position in the opposition to the Government of the State in Madrid, a government party, a party that knows that at this time we are experiencing an unprecedented situation as never in the last eighties — was opposed to the processing or approval of budgets. It seems absolutely incredible to us. It is no longer that we ask him for loyalty from the Government — or from the Socialist Party, which we could also ask him for — but the People's Party, in this case, by vetoing budgets is not being loyal to the state as a whole, is not being loyal to all citizens. I say this, basically, because the socialists, at a moment not as complex as this, not so long ago, if they allowed themselves in some way, being loyal to the state... - Yes, it is not surprising. -... being loyal to the state and institutions, that there was a government in Spain when the polls actually did not unlock this situation; they allowed themselves to abstain from the Socialist Members at the Congress of the Deputies so that Mr Rajoy was president of the Government. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's why we don't ask them to be loyal to PSOE, we ask them to be loyal to the state, in this case. [[Applause]] Then, about BNG's position in relation to budgets, at last, each one has the vision he has. It seems to us that the BNG in this context is becoming irrelevant or weightless in the field of state policy, that budgets are not bad for Galicia if they are envisaged in terms of investment per person, since they contemplate more investment for the Greeks and the Greeks than for the rest of the state's average. These are good budgets from a social point of view considering...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u96	You have to finish, Mr. Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u97	...—if I'm done already—taking into account that in Galicia we sociologically have an aging population and therefore a very high income earner in terms of pensions. And these are some budgets that, ultimately, discounted investment in AVE, invest more in Galicia than in 2018. Therefore, the strategy or position of the BNG for us is absolutely incomprehensible when voting 'no' to budgets, voting 'no' to the Education Reform Act, voting 'no'..., voting 'no' to the conclusions of the Toledo Pact or the recommendations of the Reactivation Commission that took place in the Congress of Deputies. [[Strong murmurers.]] That's very good about the dignity that the honourable lady was talking about, but... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u98	Mr. Francisco Rivera, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u99	...with your vote you're putting yourself in a block, which is the block of "no," unfortunately shared with some political forces -- as you know -- not very friends of this country, like Vox and others.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u100	Mr. Francisco Rivera, you've got more than enough time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u101	Well, then we'll stick to the question, but if you give me a second, I'll finish. The alternative to state budgets, what is it for the BNG?, what is it for the People's Party? Is it to continue to keep Rajoy's budgets, then? Well, we'll continue on the next shift. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u102	Thank you, Mr. Francisco Rivera. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] It is now the political groups' turn to stand on this motion. For the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr. Pérez López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u103	Good morning to all of you. We would like to point out that the BNG Parliamentary Group will support this motion. And we will do so — even though doing some punctualizations that we consider necessary — because in this motion many of the issues that have been repeatedly requested by BNG since the beginning of the political course are condensed. That in the month of December — nine months after the beginning of the pandemic and the restrictions it has brought together — it is necessary for the opposition to urge the Union to immediately approve direct aid to hostage, restaurant and cafés, or that it is requested that the Board compensate improper expenses of the municipalities for the coward-19 or approve direct aid to the self-employed and the peed affected by the pandemic, it is no more than the finding of something that all Welsh and Galicians already knew: that the Board, with Mr. Galiza, made it forward, only at certain selected times — and always at first time, that is — I was not aware of the circumstances and what should be expected of an agile, resolver and, above all, planner. He took us all on foot to change this pandemic, and also to the Government of Galician Union. And that's why the BNG, in the first months of the pandemic, adopted a responsible stance by supporting the measures that both the Central Government and the Autonomics — each within their competences — have adopted. In those early months they adopted — and I am no doubt at all — the measures they considered most appropriate to try to curb the pandemic and minimize its consequences. But over the course of the months, health and activity restriction measures in many sectors have not been accompanied by direct aid from the Union allowing the affected to cover, at least in part, the current costs in the form of rent, light receipts, water, maintenance costs of equipment, or even cleaning. There they suffered especially overnight hospitality and leisure, restaurants and cafes, but also many business lines associated with these sectors, such as autonomous and pemmes devoted to the production and distribution of food and drink products, cleaning companies, technical services, sound technicians, photographers or small entertainment companies, which at different meetings did not understand why in the vast majority of autonomous communities had already opened up in April and May direct aid lines to compensate the expenses that continued to come when they had limited their activity or closed their businesses. And yet, in Galicia they did not perceive a single direct help for nine months. They will agree with me that it's difficult to digest and manage for nine months without paying their salaries and paying bills anyway, gentlemen. We wouldn't have to be so quiet if it had passed on to us. And this suffered especially from the inn and, within it, nighttime leisure, or the concert halls, closed from the beginning of the pandemic. When in other communities they already go through the second round of direct aid here, in Galicia, it was very little that the first direct aids were announced; direct aids that, from the BNG, we have continued to estimate insufficient and that for many businesses will be late. So many businesses have been closed since the summer, and autonomous affiliation continues to decline alarmingly. That's why, from the BNG we've seen demanding the government's help from the board for months, but from San Caetano they've heard deaf ears and only when the hostel went to the street was when they sat with them and listened to them — in October, in October. If the protests occurred this October, this shows that the so-called cocoa — since April — A plan to rescue culture and tourism and other measures that have also been devoted to advertising in an important way have had little effect in these sectors. Governments must anticipate it, and Galician Union has not done so. Now, nine months later, these sectors are still waiting to charge the first direct aid, when, as I said, in most territories of the state, they are already going through the second. On the other hand, most of Galician municipalities, in the absence of prediction and anticipation of the Union, have assumed services for the vault-19 far beyond their own competences; services such as the extraordinary cleaning of schools, which many municipalities — those they could — have assumed. They were responsible, at a start of a chaotic course in which there were continuous changes in the protocols laid down by the Board of Education and the Board of Directors, which established necessary health requirements of an extraordinary nature in the face of an extraordinary situation such as this pandemic — measures that were deliberately not accompanied by funds to comply with them and that the municipalities had to remove from the municipal archives for pure responsibility, I insist. In the same way, now, in the second wave, and in the face of the new restrictions of activity and time, which affect, above all, the host would generally, in the municipalities where the PP governs, you present motions for the municipalities to bonus or exempt fees, such as those in the trash, and ask for the shoulder to be attached to local corporations. This seems to me to be an absolute institutional disloyalty, because it puts between the sword and the wall many municipal governments, because, if they take on these improper services or these tax measures, they can see their treasury seriously compromised for the coming year and, therefore, they can also be compromised to provide basic services, such as social services, which are their own. In view of the crisis ahead, this way of acting in the Union is politically disloyal and undoubtedly irresponsible. They assume their duties of government and do not scurry the bulk. If the Government of the State does not comply with its corresponding part, it requires it. BNG will be there, and we've already proven it. But that's no excuse for leaving the Greeks and the Greeks abandoned for months. Government, they have that responsibility, and they are not shielded from the failure of others to take measures that are vital to many sectors of our society. They show more sensitivity, because the decision to finish the Help Service at the Extraordinary Home by the coward-19 in November is leaving many dependents and their families in a critical situation, much the moment of crisis we are living in. Rectify and maintain that extraordinary aid for as long as the pandemic lasts, and increase the percentage that the Board assumes in funding the Regular Home Help Service. If they do, the municipalities can provide that vital service and not be so drowned from the point of view of their municipal buildings. All administrations must fight in a coordinated and loyal manner against the consequences of the pandemic, right. But this also requires the Legislative Board to give legal support to the subsidies and tax exemptions that the sectors affected by the pandemic, such as the hostel, are claiming from the municipalities. They increase the percentage that joins -- as we said -- in funding the Regular Home Help Service. This also requires that the Legislative Board — I insist — give legal support to the subsidies and tax exemptions that the sectors affected by the pandemic, such as the hostel, are claiming from the municipalities. Regarding this, Junta must cooperate in local funding so that the reduction of income from exemptions and subsidies does not affect the basic services of the municipalities. In that sense, Fegamp's demands go. That's why these extraordinary funds are needed for the cover-19 and an increase in the Local Cooperation Fund. It would also be important to increase the funds devoted to risk and social emergency aid, and to increase the protection of Welsh and Welsh in a vulnerable situation and social exclusion. But here, in relation to Risk, BNG considers it essential to allow for compatibility of Risk and Minimum Vital Income. That's why we have to demand the State Government to speed up the collection of the Vital Minimum Income, because Galicia is still awaiting processing a very high percentage of requests. And this, in the current context, is generating dramatic situations. This delay in access to the Minimal Vital Income was recognized by the Minister of Social Security and Migration of the State Government himself. Since the socialist bench, they recently wondered what country the BNG lives in. BNG lives in this country, knows its reality and defends the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks regardless of who governs Madrid. [[Applause]] What is requested from the Government of the United Nations on this motion is an immediate action which, in some ways, compensates the sectors most affected by restrictive health measures of activity for so many months, which have reduced or assumed that their billing was zero and caused them to currently be suffocated by debts that drag away from the debt of current expenses and taxes, generated in nothing but nine months of inaction by the Board of Galicia on this issue. For many businesses, autonomous and pemes, they arrive late, but the survival of most of the sector depends on the agility in the perception of these aids, which must be sufficient to achieve that objective. This would have to increase the allocations for the purpose, because the budget scheme seems insufficient to us and the sectors concerned. With regard to point (b) of the motion, we want to show our support for agreeing to form a parliamentary presentation to address the projects which the German Parliament considers to be priority when it comes to European funding. That consensus is essential for the projects you choose to benefit most of the Greeks and Greeks, and not just the big companies.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u104	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u105	One second, Your Honor. These projects must generate positive synergies throughout Greek society and must comply with what should be their goal, to improve, even if it's a little bit, the lives of the Greeks and the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Pérez. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia, Mr Tellado Filgueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u107	Thank you, Mr. President. From the popular bench, the truth is we've been watching with a certain blush in front of this sainetite who live in the Galician Nationalist Block and the Socialist Party. Mr. Francisco Rivera, everything seems to point out that love is over and that these agreements that keep them together on that ship of coexistence and mutual loyalty have passed into history. And you come here to ask for loyalty. You don't know who. Look, don't tell us about loyalty, because it's not the Socialist Party to teach loyalty — loyalty even to yours. I don't know if you hear leaders of your own party questioning who are the partners who accompany them in front of the government and support most parliamentarians of Mr. Pedro Sánchez. It doesn't contain with us, they don't ask us for loyalty, and even less after coming here and voting against admission for the prosecution of a public health law for Galicia. And you come to teach lessons... of what? Loyalty of what kind? Loyalty for us to support the state's worst general budgets for the last fifteen years for our community, some budgets that reduce investment for Galicia by 14%? Well, look, fortunately, the Galician Nationalist Block changed its initial stance and finally aligned itself with the Galician People's Party in criticism of those budgets. This is the reality. Well, they applauded the first day and then they couldn't keep up with him. [[Applause]] So, finally, what do you want me to say? [[Strong murmurers.]] I would like to begin by showing our solidarity and the support of the People's Parliamentary Group — from the majority parliamentary support of the Government of Greece — to all the autonomous, and in particular to the hospitality sector, which is suffering in a very special way the consequences of the restrictions we have adopted after listening to the clinical committee that advises the Council of Galicia. It's a sacrifice that aims to save lives. This sacrifice corresponded, as appropriate, with the largest package of support measures to a sector that never existed in Galicia: EUR 84 million for self-employed people and for the hospitality sector. His initiative is late. The initiative is proposing aid when the beneficiaries are about to receive it in their current accounts this December. You're late, gentlemen of the Socialist Party. They're late as they got late from the first moment. They remember that their government was the one that established the E.R.E.E.A.'s aid and that it was the Galician Union who had to advance them because here, in this country, nobody charged. So what lessons of speed and commitment are you trying to give us from your party? Look, these aids, the aid provided by the Galician board for the hostiers and for the self-employed in the sector, are the largest in an autonomous community in our country, above and above other communities with much more resources than Galicia, above the Basque Country, above Castela-León, above Catalonia, above the Rioxa, above the vast majority of autonomous communities. Galicia has help of between 3,600 and 9,200 euros for more than 50,000 professionals. The numbers speak, they speak above, Mr. Francisco Rivera. Look, measures have been put here since the first time. Here's the rescue plan. The board put help on the table for the most affected, for the hospitality sector, through the terraces and food packages to carry — for an amount of more than 3 million euros —. The Galician Council does not suffocate tax-based establishments, as the Socialist Government does, which, far from controlling the fiscal pressure in the coming exercise, which aims to raise taxes to everyone. Don't tell us that the tax will be raised to those who charge the most. Everyone, everyone, and especially the self-government sector! By the way, you were registering this initiative on the same day that the Government of Spain paid the monthly allowance to the self-employed from all over Spain. That's the sensitivity. Look, Galician measures were applauded by the Galician Tourism Cluster and also by ATA, the Spanish Association of Self-Workers, which said he had hoped for the help he had put into effect in Galician Union if they also adopted from other autonomous communities. So, what are you here to criticize? Of course, we call on all public administrations, all of them, the municipalities, the deputies, the autonomous administration, of course, and also the Government of Spain. But you come here to teach lessons of not knowing that, when your party in Ourense resorted against the aid that established the Provincial Deputy of Ourense for more than 5,000 autonomouss from all over the province. What kind of lessons do you intend to teach us? It was EUR 4 million to benefit 5,000 of the 91 municipalities in the province of Ourense — direct aid of EUR 600 — and what did the Socialist Party do in Ourense? Go to the judge to see if he could paralyze that help line. But don't you feel shame in their face, do you? You tell us about the Risk, about strengthening the Risk. But if we haven't done anything else since we've ruled! The last time you ruled in the fateful Bipartite — in 2009 — you left a match for the risk of 22.7 million euros. Do you know what is now being done every year to the Galician Social Integration Report? Next year will be €64.4 million. We doubled the number of beneficiaries and tripled the aid received by these beneficiaries. But what lessons do you want to teach us, Mr. Francisco Rivera! Expenditure on social inclusion: in 2008 you allocated EUR 30 million to social inclusion policies for the most disadvantaged. Do you know what is envisaged in the 2021 budget in social inclusion policy? For 125 million euros, from 30 to 125 million euros. Mr. Francisco Rivera, lessons from you, or the first, because you're not legitimized to give them to us. By the way, the Minimal Vital Income is very good. We support him, we agree. What we'd like would be if it worked, because, of the 40,000 Greeks who can perceive it, they don't reach 7,000. So you come to ask the Galician Council—which does—what you don't do where they rule. Man, that's called, at least, clear political hypocrisy. Look, we've incorporated in the Home Help Service the extraordinary funds this year. And that's why the Home Help Service game that's about 10% of its budget is rising to 83.6 million euros in the year 2021. See if we're committed to social inclusion and to the people who need it most! Look, from the very first moment, when the Government of Spain was completely drowning in the management of the crisis, Galician Union put the means to the municipalities that needed it. We distribute material, nearly 3 million euros..., sorry, 3 million units of security material, in the municipalities of Galicia — much more money than 3 million euros, 3 million units in the municipalities of Galicia — because the Government of Spain received nothing, nothing! They didn't even pick up their phone at the Government Delegation in Galicia. They should have been with the twitter. And then you talk about the funds to the Town Councils. But what a fool this is! Do you not know that the Local Cooperation Fund depends on the collection? Of course it goes down at 2021! because the collection planned — here we don't make traps like in the Government of Spain — will be smaller. Of course it goes down, but you'll check out what the transfers to the Town Councils are planned for next year! This year — 2020 — 401 million euros; 2021, 407 million euros. And since it's true that you belong to Mr. Gonzalo Caballero's group, but I'm sure it compares figures much better than he has to agree with me that 407 is more than 401 million euros. [[Applause]] And then, the last, the last of his initiative, which is to write a book, is that of the parliamentary presentation. This is a remake, because a few days ago you proposed a working group. Look, the working group here in Galicia has been formed since May. From May he works a committee of economic experts — independent experts, eh!—: Emilio Bruquetas, de Reganosa; Ignacio Fernández, de Index; Fernando González Laxe, da Universidade da Coruña; Santiago Lago Peñas, da Universidade de Vigo; Rosa Sánchez-Yebra, da Banco de Développement européenne; Patricia García González, do Circulo de Empresarios de Galicia; Juan Antonio Lloves, do Clúster da Automotion de Galicia; Emilio Pérez Nieto, do Foro Economico de Galicia; Victor Nogueira García, da Associação da Empresa Familiar de Galicia; Miguel Vázquez Taín, do Consio Galego de Economistas, together with other positions of the Government of Galicia. It's an independent expert committee that's been working since May. I understand that the socialists in May were walking, between the pajamas and the candal, from bed to sofa and sofa to bed. But here is a government that has been working at the foot of the cannon to put solutions where the Government of Spain was genuinely absent. [[Applause]] And, therefore, lessons, none. [[Murmurs.]] Parliamentary authority? Hey, of course we have to share the funds, and of course we're very concerned about the fate of these funds! "Sánchez renounces the creation of an agency and will distribute European aid from the Moncloa." "Sánchez reserves the distribution of European funds between autonomous communities." "Pedro Sánchez will have total control of the 140 billion European hedge fund." Friend! I mean, you guys come here asking the government... what? What don't they do where they rule?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u108	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u109	Mr. Francisco Rivera, we have reason to be concerned about the distribution of these funds, of course we have reasons. But make it clear that this government will be transparent and that's why the second vice president of the Government will appear in this House to report on the 108 projects referred to the Moncloa Palace. There is no doubt that there will be transparency here. Don't call them "working groups", "parliamentary positions," call them whatever you want. But, of course, where you won't see him — for he has already declared himself — will be in the Government of Spain by the hand of his defender Pedro Sánchez. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the parliamentary group responsible for the motion, Mr. Francisco Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u111	Thank you, President. In relation to certain types of comments, we're not going in, logically. Anyway, I think Mr. Tellado saw the People's Party hooligan jacket when he left the house at eight in the morning and didn't let it go until he came home again, probably at night. But at last, I believe that in that hooliganism that you practice, in that opposition to the opposition that you make, in that constant litany and slaughter that releases us against the Government of Mr. Sánchez, there is a lot of imposterity and quite falsehood. Mr. Tellado, the aids are the ones that are published in the DOG: 3 million euros. You just said 3 million euros of help — an Igape aid — for the terraces. Indeed, if we take the volume into account, that is, the hospitality businesses in the country as a whole — 19,000 hospitality businesses — you put the accounts down, you put the accounts on how the help comes out. And, in fact, there's a 17 million aid approved for the inn. And that's what there is, 17 million out of 19,000 businesses, that goes up to 800 euros and peaks. These are the aids. [[Applause]] Mr BNG, I would logically like to thank you for your support for this motion. I think it's a motion that responds to the need to account and establish mechanisms of help at an absolutely dramatic and agonistic moment for the whole country. And, therefore, I believe that this is the answer that we have to give, mainly in view of the fact that we have an expansive budget, which allows additional expenditure of 1,574 million, in which the Galician Union has a debt capacity as a result of the change of the expenditure rule to 2,2 % — 1,1 % — the State assumes it. We therefore place the Council of Galicia to which it actually spends, which it actually owes, which is what it has to do at this time to help the country's economy. We asked for 100 million euros for the inn, basically because this is what Mr. Núñez Feijóo announced today yes and day also in that propaganda strategy in which the People's Party is installed mixing everything completely, in that propaganda strategy and mixing tips on one side and on the other, and in making plans together in relation to the aid. We ask for 100 million, which is what Mr. Núñez Feijóo announces, and that is what we buy from Mr. Núñez Feijóo. So that's what we ask, 100 million euros. With regard to the municipalities, of course, it does not claim the Socialist Party, it claims to Fegamp—where, by the way, there are also mayors of the People's Party, or is there no councils of the People's Party in the Fegamp?—. Fegamp is claiming that it will be provided with an extraordinary fund that we have made up of 70 million euros, 70 million euros to compensate the municipalities basically for the disinfection and the inappropriate expenses they are taking, especially for the disinfection of schools and social emergency expenses — there are 700 public schools in Galicia, 700 public schools in which the municipalities themselves have to bear this type of expenditure at the moment. And, of course, in relation to Risk and, indeed, with the Minimal Vital Income, you were talking about 7,000, and it's 9,000 homes today that are receiving the Minimal Vital Income —13,665, the Risk—. Therefore, today, 70% of the aid provided in this concept comes from the Minimum Vital Income — in relation to Risk, in relation to the percentage of Risk. Yes, Mr. Tellado, yes. The 64.4 million are the same budget that last year was destined for Risk. We have asked, depending on the data, here was an allusion, on the initiative that was discussed earlier, to the social exclusion and the risk of social exclusion that exists in Galicia. The data from the population in Galicia have already been given at risk of social exclusion. Far from discussing a topic like this and entering into a confrontation with you, or with the People's Party — because it is a matter that is sensitive enough for all of us to understand in this matter — we also understand that, in the face of a situation of social emergency, in the face of a situation of economic drama that is suffering thousands and thousands of galleys, the logic is to strengthen the instruments of aid and social emergency — and the benefits in this non-contributory case — as long as there is no harmonisation — if that is possible and to modify the Law of Risk — of Minimum Income Vital and the Risk itself.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u112	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u113	And, in relation to the European funds — already mentioned — we have maintained the same position as we have maintained in the last two months, which is the need for this Parliament to know the projects which the Galician Union says to refer to the National Plan of Recovery and Resilience.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u114	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u115	I believe that this statement implies a knowledge of Parliament and also collects what the Councillor and members of the Reactivation Committee have said in this case...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Francisco Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u117	...that make public the necessity that this Parliament...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u118	Thank you very much. Your time is up. [[Mr. Francisco Rivera utters words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] We move on to the next of the motions. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of the Mercedes Complaints Zas, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the impact of the covid-19 on the cultural sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u119	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs. Queixas Zas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u120	This motion we now present is a continuation of the interpellation that we addressed to the Councillor for Culture, Education and University in the past full, concerning the demand for a plan to reactivate the Greek cultural sector. In it we present, as you know, an integral set of eleven measures that really involve us with the necessary momentum of the Greek culture as an engine of economic revival; eleven measures that I will not reiterate here because they are at your disposal in the corresponding document, but which I would like, yes, to simplify into five major ideas: the first is the continued search for dialogue with the cultural sector; the second is the search for a plan of action that serves the entire cultural chain; the third, the reactivation of production and creation units; the fourth, the declaration of culture as essential; and, finally, the adaptation of the rules of promotion to health progress, as well as the reformulation of Xacobeo. Every week, the uncertainty grows. And a year that has already been lost for nine months for the cultural sectors is opening up to another new year that is about to come in that the questioners weigh on each project that either could not have been born or could not have developed in its entirety: cancellation schedules, persistent deferral maps, a zero-kilometre chronology for workers and cultural workers who hardly live with regular figures of rent payments, credits, wages or social contributions that say well with the necessary relief that cultural management needs to take care of each creative process. Because culture is born from the effort to create it, and talent works. Don't forget, there's no divine inspiration. Today's culture is the memory of our people, who will remain far beyond us. And it will also speak for us of our acts in matters of collective consciousness, of thinking and feeling, of educating and forming society in that feeling and critical thinking. They are times coveted for Greek culture like sound for many other sectors that require priority, preferential, essential and political attention so that, despite everything, be this time of careful containment of our cultural values and training to continue with their development adapted to new circumstances; for once, that we should see how seedy we must feed from a responsible government that truly believes in culture as a right and as an essential good for society. There are too many reasons why we should strive from the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group in the imperative need to offer to the cultural sectors as well as to society as a whole — because culture is a fundamental cultural substrate for the formation of a people freed from the barbarism of inculturation — that we offer them a plan of genuine reactivation and cultural impulse that acts at present, but that also promotes the latex of the future. "The continuous present is the only verbal time of commitment." In the Galego Nationalist Block, we believe in these verses of writer Maria Reimondez, and we work against a conditional future, conditioned in cultural matters in the country's key. The day-to-day reality of the Greek cultural sectors — which we know well at first hand — does not lie; obviously, neither does the data. We have already discussed here the data provided by the report of the Galeg Culture Council in the statistical setting of the cultural field last October. They literally gather that the forecast of cultural sector evolution in the coming months for the whole of the productive system of culture is that it will have a more severe impact than the whole of the economy. Soon we will also know the updated data of the new barometer of the Greek culture corresponding to this second half of 2020, and so will we be able to establish its comparison with the previous barometer of the month of July, which referred to the first semester. In our previous interpellation, we asked in the plenary of the Counsellor, the thread of all the known objective and contrasting data -- I insist not of our perceptions -- by the action project, by the strategies designed to respond to this poscovid time, by budgeting, by the communication and coordination strategies activated by sectors and cultural agents so highly affected. Since that time, over fifteen days, there have been some episodes in this House that have brought us a lot of proposals but few answers. First of all, the diagnosis of the sector's appearances in the Commission for Economic, Social and Cultural Reactivation has shown that many of the proposals that BNG has brought to this House are still present and necessary, of course, at this first session of this legislation but also in the preceding ones. This question was raised by one of the attendings: "Why not make this legislation about care, about the reactivation of our culture and of their workers and workers?" And even more, this appearance, Carlos Ares, has left us explicit the duties for the parliamentary groups of this House: "We have a consensus among all political forces for this indispensable plan of cultural reactivation. It is necessary for the Government of the Union to commit itself decisively, and it also requires a determined and continuous dialogue with us, with the people we dedicate ourselves to culture. Let's talk, let's talk a lot and try to make a better world with our work, because with culture the world is better." Consensus, commitment, dialogue and culture, four words that reside in the identity base, DNA, BNG, of course also in cultural politics. On the other hand, Marcos Lorenzo, another associate, shared the skeleton of a cultural plan that requires the commitment of support from this House and the courageous decision of a government to lead this commitment since the exercise of a determined political action plan in cultural matters. Let us remember some of these objectives: increasing the expenditure paid in culture until 1% of the total expenditure of the Autonomic Administration — a duty that has been taking place for some time now by the Galician Culture Council itself —; secondly, support for recruitment by the municipalities of, on the one hand, technical and professional culture techniques and, on the other hand, sociocultural animation; and a battery of measures aimed at raising the consumption, habits and cultural practices of the population, strengthening the lines of support for new talents, consolidating networks and distribution circuits, granting direct and professional assistance to companies during the covid-19, facilitating counselling and comprehensive support for cultural entrepreneurship, promoting research in cultural management, improving the external positioning of Galician culture and defining a digital agenda and strategy for Galician culture. Let's remember them, let's keep them present, but above all, please take them seriously. They rule and meet the needs of our cultural sectors, because this is the basis that supports our motion. And secondly, I would also like to mention the defense in Commission 3rd by the budget advisor devoted to culture for this 2021. It's really not to move from struggle to relief. He said in his presence, Mr. Counsellor, that these budgets speak for themselves. They'll talk, I won't tell them no. But what if I tell you is that, once you've been carefully reviewed again and again, what you see in the cultural sectors represented in them is more the verse of the immense poet of Courel Uxio Novoneyra in his Lettania of Galicia: "For so long, I speak alone." That's why we assume in the BNG the responsibility of not keeping silent in the face of budgets that hide more than they count. In a context of necessary expansive budgets, we must remember that in culture they grow from 0.63% to 0.68%, i. e. 0.05 points simply. But we still have a 50 million differential from 2009. Together — to finish — what we perceive in these budgets is inertia, a routine inertia and a lack of enormous impulse, of course, not adjusted to the excellence of our cultural sectors — which means with regard to the extreme impact that the pandemic is having on them, as we already know is verified in different reports. It is good that at last culture is neither programmatic nor budgetaryly considered a sub-altern appendix of tourism, as in previous budgets, being diluted in Xacobeo. However, we do not now see a cultural project with its own profile that takes account of the serious economic environment that has already affected — and will affect, we do not forget — next year the Greek cultural sectors. Lack of imagination, lack of an exciting, innovative, committed, first-person project, and knowledge of the diversity of our cultural engine. That is why we call on the parliamentary groups of this House to act with empathy and recognition towards our cultural sectors by supporting the points that give shape to this motion. Thank you, above all, for your attention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u121	Thank you, Mrs. Complaints. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u122	Thank you, President. Good day to all of you again. Generally, the measures decreed by the cowardice since March have affected the vast majority of cultural companies, and today more than half have not recovered their activity. There are three important indicators that account for the seriousness of the situation in the cultural sector, which could be -- or they are -- that 6% of workers and workers who have already been fired since the beginning of the pandemic will have to add to it the next 10 months more; that 4 out of 10 companies will have difficulties in paying social taxes and insurance; and that 6 out of 10 companies have experienced a 50% drop in billing. I'm not going to be repetitive with the saying now by the BNG spokesman, but it's true that the forecasts point to the fact that the productive system of culture will have a more severe impact than the whole economy. And by the way, the worst expectations will be given in small business and in the arts and music sector. This brief introduction on the impact of the health crisis on the cultural sector highlights the data already mentioned here from some of these reports of the statistical set in the cultural field of October this year and the barometer of the Greek culture — of the first barometer corresponding to the first half — both carried out by the Galician Council of Culture. Of course, expectations are really nothing encouraging for a sector seriously damaged by the pandemic, as we have already stated in this plenary session on several occasions. And it would seem obvious that in the face of this picture, decisions, decisions, of course, based on rigorous reports and on follow-up assessments of the situation, such as those we have just mentioned, and of course — and I am sorry if we insist so much on this issue — are decisions based on strategies. It's not worth a million-dollar injection to a sector if that injection does not follow a properly planned strategy, because that would be bread for today and hungry for tomorrow. That is why — here too in advance of the Group of the BNG — we are, of course, going to support this motion. We do not amend it because the reality is that we share many of the issues raised here and, in addition, others were already in the previous motion two months ago that we presented here too, as well as in other initiatives that we have registered but not defended yet. I'll go now in parts, a little to try to touch everything, though I don't know if it'll give me time. That's right, what we want is to show our surprise. We were surprised that there is no longer any need for a budget increase here. We know that obviously the budgets were already there, but still we thought that we would not be asking again for a budget increase, which, as we have seen in the budget appearance of the director of Agadic, will go a long way towards that audiovisual hub but we do not know if everything will be sustained, if all that increase comes from European funds and if it will eventually be able to sustain. But, said this, the first for us is what the proposed group takes in point 9, which is the need to declare culture as good of first necessity. We don't know if maybe they put it in point 9 so it's a bit diluted because they think they're going to be more lucky. Let's hope they do. But we really hope that you will have better luck than we do and this is approved on this occasion. If this were the case, we would understand that the People's Group has finally thought about the matter and addressed the need to grant maximum protection to our culture. On the meeting with the cultural sectors and agents we also agree, of course, but the Socialist Parliamentary Group is going a little further and we propose that the Council establish a permanent dialogue table with the world of culture; and, in addition, it is duly sectoralized to be able to respond to the specific needs of each of the sectors that make up our culture — which are not few, fortunately —. Of course, in view of the health situation and the foreseeable continuance of the pandemic until the coming year, our parliamentary group is worried about us, as we said earlier, the lack of strategy and planning in the cultural field of this Government, since, at no time since it ends this year, nothing is known of the plans for the sector as of 1 January 2021. If we know the budget, but we still don't know what it's going to use. That necessary dialogue of what we were talking about should serve at an early stage to meet the demands made — as the motion says — with regard to the Cultural Reactivation Plan, which was so strongly answered. Even if the councilman says no, he did. And it should also serve to draw up a shock plan that, in the first instance, should address the disastrous consequences that the pandemic, as we say and as it is evident, is causing in our culture. And, yes, we also agree that these plans, whatever they are — of shock, of reactivation, the plan that the Board at once wants to put forward, put forward, must respond to the Strategy of Greek culture 2021, of which we know little, and much less of its level of execution or of what they intend for the last year precisely this plan. They tell us that they didn't even start with previous contacts -- we also know if they intend to do so -- with the different professional associations to start drawing up that plan. We can call it "plan" and the Government can call it whatever it wants, but that document, which should certainly be different from what was formulated by 2020, should, as we have asked a few months ago, include direct aids and credit lines far more favourable than they existed until now to serve as an oxygen balloon for that sector. They also deal with the issue of shelters, which this parliamentary group denounced a few weeks ago when the self-government, after months of tirelessly affirming that culture is secure, that culture is safe, decides to extend shelters in places of worship and in public transport, in the first case to an epidemiological investigation carried out — we imagine — somewhere in worship. We did not question, in any way — which is clear here — the health criteria for deciding the capacities, or avenues, of the different spaces, but I wanted to read something to them — I think it will give me time — I want to read something textual to them, and now I'll explain why. He says, "They're safe spaces in relation to the transmission of the virus as there's been no trace of any kind that could be identified as the source of the virus in that place." And he also said this: "But if they are interior spaces, the permanence in them is a limited period of time, people don't interact with each other, keep the distance of security at all times and use the mask systematically except on time." Of course, you might think we're talking about a theater, don't you? Or a cinema. But no, we're not talking about theater or cinema. This, what I just read, is the Order of November 4 on places of worship, which, of course, as I say, we do not question at all. But we do think that his caustics is, of course, very similar — if not, exactly — to a cultural space as it could be a cinema or a theatre, as I just said. So we wonder if it would be possible that this research could also be carried out in some cultural space to arrive at the same conclusion or not, but at least if it is done, considering that the last regulation for cultural spaces is not as permissive as that of public transport — which, by the way, leaves all its armchairs to be filled — or that of places of worship. And we're not thinking, by the way, of a ten-minute public transport trip. We can also think about how the trains from any of the Members coming from that means of transport are coming here. You can think of how they come to sit down. So, in this matter of outlets, we've already asked for a protocol on our motion, on the motion of two months ago, with clear and unequivocal criteria as to the capacity and application of health criteria in the development and organization of cultural activities as long as the pandemic lasts. Neither did we, too, ask for it, and keep claiming it, the sector itself. In addition, of course, we see it convenient to push the four laws that propose the motion and reactivate the Galego Dramatic Center — although on the other day, by the appearance of the director, if there seems to be a certain reactivation — and, most of all, the Coreographic Center, which, although we know that three co-production contracts have just been awarded, we continue without seeing a project for this center in Greece, which continues to be headlong and which must also find out how much earlier their course has been. About Jacobabeo a little more has to say that what we've put here many times in manifesto. Yes, of course, we take advantage of all its potential but we do not circumscribe our entire cultural strategy to an event with obvious projection but ephemeral to all light. Finally, let's build between them all. Perhaps I would also like to refer here today to the professional who came to the Reconstruction Commission, Carlos Ares, who also appealed to the consensus. So do we. What is needed at this time is to build among all — hence, with the sector in fear or, at least, with the hand of the Government — a cultural strategy for our country that guides us in these near times, which will be tough. But that strategy must already serve as a basis for the future of culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Varela. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u124	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Mrs. Complaints, you said there was no divine inspiration, but I believe that, if you bring this initiative here, it seems that I have to have a little divine inspiration to understand that you are asking for so many and so many things that are already being done, that I have already exposed the advisor himself in the previous plenary, as you said, at the root of the interpellation, that they have already explained. And there's also facts, and you're talking about the launching of a cultural reactivation plan. What this government has done since the first moment, in the pandemic alarm in March, was to put in place this cultural reactivation plan — plus a budgetary amount on the table of 26 million euros, which today, in December, is already 95% practically executed. So you won't like it, but it's done. I think this, instead of being a motion in favour of the cultural sector, is a motion against the Government, which is totally lawful to present it. But I think the points that you've exposed here and that are on your own motion are all raised on the table. Maybe the method, the way, like things do, is what you don't like. You say the world with culture is a better world. I totally agree. In fact, with all the culture, not only with the culture of BNG. I also want to say this here, because it seems that sometimes there is no culture because BNG does not agree with the cultural policies that have been carried out since the Galician Union, which — I insist — cover the total of the autonomous community. You say it's budgets that hide more than they count. Well, I also wonder if you won't hide more than they tell on many occasions. Because, really, if you were present at the appearances... I want to also congratulate all the visitors who were in the Reactivation Commission on culture, because each one has contributed, from a very different point of view, on all needs and all that would have to be covered in a document. I think there were a lot of opinions in addition. There have also been those who said that the cultural policies of the Galician Union are making the cultural sector in Galicia take off, that the cultural positioning of Galicia and many of the sectors and disciplines have a good international positioning, which is a line that must be followed, and which are large areas of area that the Administration is putting into effect to multiply. And, in fact, it's not done by the Galician board, neither I nor the councillor, it's done by people who make culture, actually. And of course, we have to train — which I will then give data on the assistance they are also providing for training — to develop talent. We must also help people to be able to devote themselves to culture in a safe way and to strengthen themselves and plan internationally, which is the goal that the Strategy of Greek Culture has at all times, which I say has been changing by the theme of cowardice. But a reactivation plan has been put in place, because it has some lines of work, and then Together, what it does is to react when there's an emergency so these cultural companies can have support. And what he did too, as I have said on many occasions, was to make available to these people liquidity so that, with lack of activity, he could stand up. And culture is safe, of course, we all repeat it and we all know it. The issue of openings — often referred to in committees and other debates — is a subject with a health criterion. And if you've already been reviewed -- you can see the 3rd of December, a few days ago, it's not a criterion neither of the Union nor of the Councillor of Culture; that is, it's a health criterion that is also softening according to the restrictions of the different spaces. I myself tomorrow will go to a concert that was suspended in November but that tomorrow will be possible. It is true, therefore, that the revision of the openings is done and that the performances, the events, if they can be performed according to the situation of the vault in the different spaces. They're a lot of points. I've got all of them down here. And as I said, maybe you're the actions or the model of how things are done that you don't like, but really what you're asking is already on the table. He's talking about meeting with the sector. We have already said on an active and passive basis that both the parliamentary group and the councillor themselves and the various officers of the Council have permanent meetings with the cultural sector. It's especially false that there had been, as you say in the motion, a forced eight-month unemployment. It is true that there has been forced unemployment at first, but many of the cultural activities have been recovered, you have also given them economic help so that they don't get overcrowded, as I said before, and worked a lot from the Board to make this happen. The number of activities carried out at this time of pandemic supported by the Galician Union was 1,163 — nevertheless, supported by the Galician Union. I'm not going to repeat the encryption because in the past, the advisor has noticed that. With regard to meeting the demands and claims submitted following the reactivation plan, I have already said this at the beginning of the intervention, with EUR 26.4 million, is already around 95% of the measures of the reactivation plan implemented or implemented, so it is EUR 24 million right now. We are an autonomous community that has been an example for other autonomous communities as we know how to care for the cultural sector here in Galicia. In fact, it was formulated as a roadmap which could be changing and which could be modelled according to this pandemic — since we never know what is going to happen — in order to be able to expand with new support measures. And that's what's done. Present a rescue plan before the end of the year. Let's see, if they present this on November 27 and before the end of the year they want a rescue plan, I don't know if we should have to do it with some divine inspiration too, because I think all the meetings, all the reports, all the petitions from the sectors, even the revival commission itself — that we have to have a common ditam —... because everything would have to work and do with a certain solvency, because we believe that it is not possible in a month — and also without any clues about what you are proposing. As you speak of a rescue plan, we look like a rescue plan — very worthy and to be proud — the budgets of the Galician Union, because they know that the departure of culture will grow at 27.4%. I mean, culture is going to be dedicated this year to 94 million euros, 20.3 million euros more than in 2020. That is a real rescue plan, already in a document drawn up, already discussed in Commission 3a, which will come soon to the plenary so that we can approve it and make it available to the cultural sectors of course. On predicting orders of direct help, this is where I say that you may not like how it is done or how it is done, but this is already contemplated. We have the clear conviction — and it has also been presented in the Reactivation Committee — that the best way to support the cultural and creative sectors is through aid that encourages activity. This activity has a multiplier effect and, as we say, it works and they're getting started. The other day, the director of Agadic at Commission 3rd made a list of all the cultural disciplines to which he will help and support, and therefore also exists. There are results, in addition; this cultural policy of the Union has results. I said we had to look back, at times when budgets were also more children, as they were growing up, as if they were redirecting the money to culture, and as in March, before the pandemic, we were positioned in a place at the international level and also with regard to the rest of Spain very important, than we have to feel — as I always say — very proud. And I think it's not just the role that Junta has played, but it's very important that you have this policy, too, the Union of Galicia. So now he just presented a cross-sectional campaign to promote cultural consumption. The most important thing is that we all get involved, the cultural sector, because it's true that it's all cross-sectional and, therefore, the Union does not stop working and putting on the table initiatives to support this sector; direct help to creation — I say — which has only been done for some time since the German Government. And this year, 192 aids were financed for book companies and professionals, 40 aids for artistic creation, 20 aids for art galleries, 680 educational activities in which 680 people participated to train themselves, as you said, because it's true: you also have to boost talent and develop it. So many times these aids, which are equally hidden, also exist, and the Union also has this completely controlled point. Therefore, the Strategy of Greek Culture is the roadmap that followed this government, as I said, and that had very positive results; a strategy of Greek culture that was best seen in this case a little limited with the coward but at which the root of the vault began the reactivation plan. So it's a very clear roadmap, with 6 strategic lines, with 34 very clear targets and 360 action measures, a strategy that is totally drafted and which is also very much in line with the cultural sector. In addition to establishing a pact for Greek culture, taking into account its essential value, and that's what I'm going to link, because I'm running out of time and I want to talk about what you're constantly insisting on having the culture or naming the culture well of first necessity, when we think it's a toast to the sun, because they're really very good intentions, how can the central government do in Madrid, but then what is that, what is practical counter-prepression -- as I'm saying -- with practical results, and really then having a culture settlement in Galicia? Often a first-needed asset has tax incentives that are now beyond our capabilities, because they are sometimes competences that are in the central government. So it's a toast to the sun that you use as a political strategy. I think it's all right, but it's not gonna work out anything. Xacobeo 2021 reformulation. It's more than done. Besides, to talk about Jacob with the Galego Nationalist Block is sometimes complicated, because you never believed in a Jacobius; that is, they used to pose Jacobius as if these people at the PP put Jacobius as a tourist thing, as a cultural thing. Xacobeo is a very important value that we have in this autonomous community and that we have to derive from it in addition to a lot of profitability and a lot of profit and boast of it. And, as we say, now, in this decade of Xacobeo that comes forward, because we have a lot of opportunities in the cultural sector, and in others, to take advantage of it. And — I repeat — culture is, moreover, an essential basis of the Xacobeo, something unique to us, and therefore of what we have to achieve profitability. The Socialist Party seems to change your speech a little bit already on this subject, but it is not true that they support it, when the amendments we tabled in the Congress of Deputies to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u125	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u126	...if the allocations increase against and then at the time of truth there are many cities that don't even allow even signaling the Xacobeo and completely elude it. The city of Vigo — I have to say that because I am from there — seems to be an oasis and it is the only city in the world where the Xacobeo is not marked, because a socialist mayor doesn't feel like doing it. We're not going to support the motion, because it's a motion against the Government, government policy, but it's not in favour of the cultural sector. We do not believe that, by supporting these initiatives, which, as you know, most of them are already taking place, will improve positioning and the cultural sector right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, author of this motion, Mrs. Complaints.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u128	Well, it's too little time to answer properly and in depth. First of all, thanks to the Socialist Parliamentary Group for its support. The fact that I have not received any amendments almost made me believe that this motion could be unanimously adopted by this House; I regret that it cannot be so; we will have to continue to try to achieve it, because we are quite clear to the people we participate in the reactivating committee that it was a demand from those who participated there representing the cultural sector. Because, of course, at BNG if we believe that culture is part of the reactivation of our country and it is an essential economic engine to count on. And, of course, I'm not going to make any judgments, nor am I going to do ventriloquist for the cultural sector about what was said in that committee by the different audiences, only four; they saw, summer, because it's in Parliament's media library and they'll draw their own conclusions about what was said there and the interventions we had also the different representatives of each parliamentary group. Of course, I insist that in the demand for dialogue you may say that if the times you want and put it in capital letters and in black and italics, but they are explicit demands and even were collected in writing in this commission. You say it's not possible in a month to make that rescue plan, reactivation plan, plan B -- as they want to put names and names on it -- now in a month, since we presented the motion. That's right. We actually thought it was something they were already working on once that reactivation plan, which we didn't forget that it was from the cultural and tourism sector, ends, or we understand that it's over now -- that's what you're saying -- so we actually were already doing the duties of which was the next step. We see no, that there is no shock plan that will follow up on that first reactivation plan, that there is therefore nothing developed from the Strategy of Greek Culture 2020-2021, nor is there anything seen. And of course it is also clear that there is no such dialogue with the sector. A reactivation plan of what you will continue to list figures, but what we ask is when it will come to us if it's also already preparing, predicting what must be something fundamental, which is the qualitative evaluation of that reactivation plan, but what really quality numbers, which is what we have left. And, above all, please, we will come back and we will always insist: consult with the sector itself. What is this qualitative assessment of the sector? And I say again: there's nothing for later; it's said by the spokesperson of the People's Party now quite clear here; there's no plan to respond as it is due to the Greek culture from January 1st. You are repeatedly calling for help, which was also the first and so forth. I really recommend that you look at another type of aid plans, which have nothing to do with what you presented to the Greek cultural sector. [[Basque, Valencia, etc.]] And these budgets keep saying they speak alone. In fact, if they speak, they speak alone; the case is soon to see who listens to them, because there is no help, that they think of something that is structural in Greek cultural formation as cultural associationism. There is really no help for research, for creation, but there is no support for promoting cultural creation. And there's no help for internationalization, it's still an absolute determination and abandonment, they're just setting up for that item 257,000 euros, much less than, for example, for the Camilo José Cela Foundation; it must be for you in the People's Party that internationalization ends in Pattern and does not go there. Now to finish, it's incredible to observe the increasingly programmed disregard of the book and reading. We continue without a reading plan, we continue without evaluating the 2016-2020 LIA plan, we continue without being the book sector with the need, with the attention needed. It is difficult to explain that the budget programme 4.2.3.A, which is a campaign to raise awareness and promote reading, drops from EUR 180.00 this year to EUR 35,000 for next year. That is the attention given to promoting reading by the Government of Greece. Heritage is the absolutely neglected cultural sector, and you mentioned that campaign that the Counsellor actually announced to us in his intervention in the previous plenary. I wonder, we wonder what campaign we're really going to talk about, a campaign in which to get started isn't in all of the media, so it's not getting much of the Greek society; by the way, those means that if for something they're characterized it's by using the Greek language to communicate the information. A campaign that conceives reading, for example, as a background panel of a cross with a lot of bibliography, with a lot of literature, but none in English. What are we really advertising? Please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u129	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u130	A campaign even with lack of spelling: "Enjoy the pleasure of reading to the housewarming." Ladies and gentlemen, the word "heat" is feminine, it will be "hot of the house." And a consumption campaign, for whom? Only for those who have, because we continue to wait — and we will continue to remember as many times as necessary — is really a policy that supports the promotion of culture for those who do not have that priority access as is the provision of cultural bonds that really allow culture to be a right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u131	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u132	I'm done. In fact, their culture policy is still interpreted as zero on the left, it doesn't count. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u133	Thank you, Mrs. Complaints. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u134	We shall proceed to the vote on the motions. We started by voting for the motion of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego on the initiative of Mrs Noa Presas. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is not accepted and has asked who participated in the debate by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ortega, to separate the vote by points. Do you accept a point vote? You asked to separate point number four. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let us first vote on point 4. Vote of point 4 of the G.P. Motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantiños, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in relation to the impact on the Greek economy of the consolidation of poverty and social exclusion and the repercussions of the crisis of coward-19. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 18; votes against, 40; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. This point 4 is therefore rejected. Let us now vote on the rest of the points of the motion. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. of the Galego Nationalist Block, except point 4, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantiños, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in relation to the impact on the Greek economy of the consolidation of poverty and social exclusion and the repercussions of the crisis of coward-19. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. These points are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u135	We now vote on the motion of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. There are no amendments. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Juan Carlos Francisco Rivera, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in relation to the economic crisis and the social situation generated by the coward-19. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u136	Finally, we voted for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Ms. Mercedes Complaints. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of the Mercedes Complaints Zas, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the impact of the curfew-19 on the cultural sector. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u137	We suspended the session until 6:30.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u138	Good afternoon. We reconvene the session, with agenda item 4, non-legislative proposals. Agenda Change
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u139	We began with the cumulative debate of the following non-law proposals: G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Marina Ortega Otero and D. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions that must be carried out in Galician Union aimed at maintaining the assistance service in the extraordinary home and extending it until the pandemic caused by the covid-19 is controlled in our autonomous community G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and two other Members, on the action to be taken by the Government of Greece in order to amend the current legislation governing the home aid service, as well as the issues to be brought into it
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u140	They both deal with the home support service, maintenance and extension until the end of the covid-19 pandemic and changes to the current regulations. There is an amendment to the non-legislative proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u141	Let's start with the debate. First of all, you have the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u142	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. The SAF is one of the pillars of our welfare state, one of the most emblematic services of social services, which was already taking the first steps in the 1980s. The SAF is that resource of what everyone hears talking about but which in reality is a great stranger. The home help service must be valued, as well as transferring to the citizen the necessary pedagogy so that we are aware of what their functions and objectives are as a complementary and professional service that requires necessary coordination with non-professional family care. On April 11th, Galician Junta announced a special home aid service to respond to emergency situations during the health alert time caused by the coward. Specifically, Junta reported that it would assign five hundred thousand hours to the municipalities for home care of persons with care needs. As for the co-operage that habitually employs dependency users, the Galician Union has committed in this case to the extraordinary SAF that it would bear the cost of them; thus, it also raised its rate per hour to 12 euros by the Autonomic Administration. On November 30th, he decided to withdraw this service from the extraordinary home in the middle of the pandemic with very severe restrictions and limitations but necessary to cope with the virus but which further limits the situation of dependent people, so it remains an essential service despite the fact that Junta is shielded in which it only serves to replace the work of day centers, which has kept closed for so long, while even a person could go to a verbena but not to its therapeutic day center. Social workers, as well as assistants, well know the situation and know that, given the restrictions, it's necessary. But it's not only worth adding hours without reformulation and providing resources for home help. They say that for everything there's a reason and the fact is that the People's Party, which governs Junta, makes a trick. Now that the headlines and delicate moments have passed, he has already performed his role, and now they indicate that they will increase the ordinary SAF but withdraw the extraordinary SAF. We'll ask ourselves why. Why don't you keep what's already, besides going up for hours? It must be borne in mind that, as the help service is designed at the extraordinary home, the burden of the cooperage is eliminated to the beneficiaries, taking over from the German Government. From our group we asked ourselves, "Why don't you keep it in a moment of crisis -- it's called extraordinary or whatever you want?" Why do we eliminate the co-op to users at a time of crisis like we are? It's not for not accepting the mistake and giving us the reason — that might be — but the trick is that the Board Government has not updated its share of self-government in the payment of the home help service. This means it's been costing just 12 euros/hour about a decade or so now that it's costing between 12 and 22 euros/hour. And, look, here's the question: the board, despite the increase in the cost of the SAF, continues to put the same amount as more than a decade ago, maximum 9.70 euros/hour, so the rest are paying the municipalities and users. In other words, with the extraordinary SAF the Union goes up to 12 euros and assumes the user's payout and the ordinary payout pays 9 euros and the payout falls on dependents. This is the key. The fair thing would be that the conditions under which the extraordinary SAF was being given were transferred to the ordinary SAF set. And the board comes out with headlines like it gives home help hours to the municipalities and neighborhoods, when actually what you're practicing is the "I invite, you pay" method. Therefore, it is urgent for SAF to be well funded in Galicia, first, to take account of the type of financing, and for that reason it is only necessary for the Union to increase its contribution and free the municipalities from an insatiable burden to the municipal buildings themselves. They have the opportunity to contact the sector through home aid assistants as well as SAF coordinators and coordinators. And both groups have put together deficiencies in a sector that is and must continue to rise, given that we are living more and more years and therefore our population needs an optimal care sector. And this goes on the line that we've defended since our party, which is about that the new model not only fits through a new residential model, but the new model must encompass the entire care and care sector to larger and dependent people, and the SAF is an obvious piar within that model. The associative group of SAF coordinators, through the working group of the Official College of Social Work in Galicia, has developed a study drawn up in a document that makes clear the priorities for which we have to work in Galicia, such as improving the quality of life of users, enabling people to stay in their habitual coexistence, promoting and enhancing personal autonomy at home, maintaining and improving and recovering networks of family and social relationship, preventing dependency or social exclusion and delaying or avoiding institutionalization. Law 39/2006 ultimately holds Galician Board responsible for planning the home help service. It is therefore crucial that the Union reformulates, firstly, the financing and rebalancing of what it brings to the Union in respect of the municipalities, and now more than ever, in this pandemic situation, taking into account that the budgets of the Government of the People's Party in Galicia cut resources for the Union to the municipalities. But we didn't say all this. The report he was talking about, of the workers and workers in the sector, quote, textually, "We must take into account that the arrival of the Board for the home aid service is at a maximum of 9.70/hour, being insufficient. And the weight of local approach is not assumed for many, so in general planning of the SAF it would be urgently necessary to increase the price/hour by the Autonomic Administration." But there are other issues that we have to reformulate in the SAF. One very important thing is the labor situation of the sector itself, with complex schedules of squares as compared to hours, in which the workers themselves may have few assigned hours and even spaced over the same day, so they get very low wages and even hard to match with another complementary occupation. Another matter of concern is the worker's own safety. From the sector they warn that, given that they work with different casuistics—for, in addition to dependence, as we all know, mental health, destruction, addictions, etc.—, they sometimes work with users with impaired cognitive or conductual capabilities and that there may be cases of aggressive behaviors that workers themselves do not communicate for fear of work reprisals. There is an administrative channel of communication that has to be reformulated so that workers can have protection in this regard after such communication. Situations like this one — or more simple ones like, for example, moving from one home to another in distant rural surroundings, or even in urban centres where they have difficulty parking their vehicles and meeting established schedules — make it difficult to do their job and fulfill the daytime. That is why a reformulation is needed, and above all — the most important — a clear, direct and constant dialogue with the sector itself in order to be able to provide resources not only quantitative but qualitatively. It's a qualified and prepared sector that needs improvement in working conditions. In the context of the pandemic, the SAF was one of the essential professions that have maintained life in our country but unfortunately they have not received the treatment that deserves an essential profession as such at such hard times. How is it possible that a home help assistant who had contact with a positive doesn't call her trackers until four days later? Like this one, many examples. How is it possible that home help assistants who had to take positive care of their homes didn't have protective equipment for that? How can telemedicine be abused and home care workers and social workers need to visit positive homes without the right conditions? The workers and workers in the sector speak of the lack of clear protocols on this matter and lack of means, which has in many cases led to the same state of insumable work stress which has affected and has affected in many cases their own health. It is necessary to incorporate more professionals into teams, such as psychology professionals or social education, to implement and increase the cognitive rehabilitation of users and thus to extend as far as possible the autonomy and well-being of our older and dependent people. So SAF impulse and reinforcement, updating the payment of the Joint Government in a rebalancing of the financing of the service that relieves the economic gap that the municipalities have, reformulation of the service with more professional and within a new global concept of attention to our seniors and dependents and training for the incorporation of more professional into service and improvement of the working conditions of the same fruit of the dialogue with the sector. All of us, with luck, will get even more, and we can also have the misfortune of suffering from a dependency or disability. We may need this service. We take care of him, we take care of the workers and the workers in the sector, and of course we take care of our seniors and dependents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u143	Thank you, Mrs Ortega. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u144	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. I also wanted to start by saying that we do not share the decision to accumulate these two initiatives, whenever in the resolution — as you can see — there are completely different things proposed. In any case, it is not up to us to order or organize the debate. But today from the Galego Nationalist Block, what we bring to this plenary is a deeper reflection, which is the maintenance of the aid service in the extraordinary home, which, as you know, ended last November 30th, to address together the design and management of the home aid service in our country. That's why we also tabled an amendment to replace the Socialist Party's initiative with the text of our own. The extraordinary SAF — I say and I insist — ended on 30 November; in fact, this Monday, on 7 December, the Galician Board communicated to the municipalities an extension in more than one million hours of the SAF linked to the Dependency Law for 2021, which will be distributed from 15 this month, under the same conditions as it has been developing until now, i.e., with an economic contribution from the Greek Government of 9.7 euros/hour, indeed, lent to those who are directly linked to the Dependency Law and without more criteria for distribution of those hours between the various municipalities that — literally the communication of the Union — "the needs detected by the Greek Government itself in accordance with the information collected in the SIGAD". And that's the first of the issues we wanted to bring today from the BNG to this plenary, because the Galician Union has the wrong habit — and it does not do it solely with services and social policy, it does so in many other areas as well — of making decisions that affect the municipalities but without counting at all either their opinions or their considerations, or much less on the situation that local authorities have to deal with. He approved, as indicated a moment ago, half a million hours of extraordinary SAF unilaterally; he also unilaterally communicated that he ended the service on November 30, without asking, without contrasting what needs and what reality they had the various 300 municipalities of our country; and now he does the same again, he distributes more hours. We do not deny the need for that extension or that increase of hours, but again it does so unilaterally and without the opinion of the municipalities themselves, with no more information or more contrast than an information poster hanging from the Social Services website. We believe that the debate that now takes place — and it is already a debate that comes from old or far away — is precisely to speak and address the conditions in which the home help service is being provided today, how it is financed, how it is managed and, above all, that it must change to ensure the highest quality in the care of users, but above all, how to ensure the best working conditions for the people who are developing that work. We talk a lot about this chamber where legislation is concerned — and before now — because it was essential, because it was necessary, of the situation of the older residences in our country, of the conditions in which the workers and workers of the residences develop their work, but we have to take into account that one of the main ones — not to say the principal — the attention service to dependent people in Galicia, is precisely this, is the home aid service, especially in those interior and rural areas of the country that do not have other proximity services; nearly twenty-four thousand users in 2019 who are cared for in their homes. I also want to make an incision here, because the degree of coverage, being one of the main services, which has the SAF in Galicia, is below the average of the Spanish state. We have 2.98% per 100 people over 65, compared to 3.99% in the case of the average of the Spanish State. We have agreed since BNG: the SAF is a fundamental service, it is a very necessary service, but it holds itself upon a huge precariousness. What do we propose today from the BNG with this initiative and, above all, with which two objectives we want or call to review this service? The first is to demand that dialogue of what he was talking about at the beginning, to demand that dialogue of the Board with the Town Councils, through the entity that represents them all, which is the Fegamp: that any substantial change, whether an increase of hours or of any other kind, must be the result of a dialogue and also of a will at least of consensus and negotiation, not of unilateral attitudes or decisions. You will remember that in the previous plenary session since the BNG, in a question that we asked the Social Policy Adviser, we asked him to keep this time increase that assumed the extraordinary SAF once that program was over. But we also insisted very much on the advisor that it was necessary for the maintenance of hours to be the result of dialogue and coordination with the municipalities, because it is the local entities that ultimately have to manage this service. Secondly, the second objective of this initiative is to further unify the conditions under which it lends itself and improve the quality of the service, mainly through the guarantee and recognition of more and better labour rights for workers in this home aid service, almost 100% of them, especially in the category of assistants, women. And also because of this feminization of service, like most of the services that have to do with care in our country, to a large extent, it is also invisible, precarious and extremely devalued for the great social benefit it brings to the whole society of this country. What do we propose from the BNG with this initiative that changes the service? In two aspects basically: in terms of funding, but also in an important part of the organisation of the SAF itself. In the financing, essentially, going towards an increase in the contribution that the Galician Union makes to adjust it to the actual cost of providing the service and also ensuring with that increase a decent wage for workers. Today we find ourselves in many municipalities in this working country of the SAF that are receiving a salary below what marks a collective agreement that, as you know, is expired in 2011. And besides, that contribution made by the Galician Board, that 9.70 euros/hour, actually borrowed, is very far away and is totally insufficient to cope with the actual cost of the service itself. Mrs Ortega said she had a price, a cost of 13 euros, and really between 18 and 23 euros per hour, according to that report prepared by the Official College of Social Work in Galicia. That low funding, that is to say, that the Union only provides €9.7 per hour, which is favouring job insecurity and that many SAF workers receive a wage below — I insist — from what marks the agreement itself, in addition to demanding a huge effort to local authorities, because they have to assume the difference between the real cost of service provision and the part that makes Joina. Based on the fact that users and users are getting closer depending on income and wealth they have, of course, in the country as is Galicia, with the second lowest pensions in the state, logically — we also want to make it clear — most of the users or do not contribute anything or make the minimum contribution, according to — I insist — their income and their heritage. That's what it's got to do with funding. And the part of the service organization that we propose today since the BNG is, first, that objective criteria are established for the distribution of these hour increments, that is not a unilateral and discretionary decision of the Galician Union, but that it responds to a contrast and to a prior negotiation with the municipalities so that progress is adjusted also in the incorporation of those hours and even the increase itself to the needs of the municipalities and their capacity also as service providers to deal with that time increase. Also modify the regulations to require that most of those home help services, which in our country are managed by private companies, have to have more technical and coordination staff and therefore have to reduce the ratio of technical staff according to the number of users and users to adjust it to a higher quality in the provision of the service. I also improve the working conditions of the assistants, with an organization of the working day that doesn't go according to the hours, but has another unit of measurement. And why would we say that? Because today full-time contracts for home help workers are the exception rather than the norm. The most common thing is that we find ourselves in a five-hour, six-hour period, which makes it very difficult to reconcile personal life, work life and professional life of these people, and that they are taking many women working in the home aid service to earn wages under the SMI. And what we can't do is, neither before the pandemic nor much less after what we've lived in this country, to support rights and social services on labour exploitation and denial of rights to workers and workers. Improving working conditions, which also involve intervention and prevention protocols on situations that are increasingly common in the homes of users, where cases of discrimination, cases of sexual assault or even racism occur. And what we are asking is that protocols be drawn up and that the regulatory reforms be made that are necessary in order to be able to temporarily or absolutely suspend the service in those cases where, indeed, this violation of rights takes place. Today the regulation only provides for temporary suspension of the service in two cases which have nothing to do with the working conditions. And ended with a final reflection, with the life expectancy we have. Immersed as we are in this chamber in the debate about demographic impulse, we have to strengthen services and care and, above all, everything that has to do with the attention of dependents, especially those people who have will, who so desire and have the right to stay for as long as possible in their own homes; it's their right. But above all, we also have to bear in mind that social well-being and that caretakers are workers, but that job has to be of good quality and decent working conditions. We've been taking this initiative since BNG today. We think it's a little step, even if it's small, on that way to guarantee better services, of greater proximity, of higher quality and, above all, with more rights. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u145	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Non-proposing Group, Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. We can disagree or share Mrs. Rodil's assessment of whether it is appropriate or not to accumulate, but you will recognize that, after listening to the intervention of the representative of the Socialist Party, there was almost a de facto accumulation, because he basically spoke of the amendment you tabled and assumed as if it were a matter of your own. In other words, the Bureau's approach to this subject should not be so far removed. In any case, and focusing on what brings us here today to debate, my group and I sincerely believe that it is unquestionable how important the home aid service has reached as a formula — probably the most appropriate formula, right? — to reconcile the care needs of our elders and dependents with their majority will — at least in Galicia — to remain in their homes. And I sincerely believe — and I thank you — that the presentation of the two initiatives that we are now discussing is a further realization of the importance of this home help service. Because I sincerely believe that the model of care at home, at home itself, is the one preferred by the vast majority of the Greeks. So much so that, in fact, there are 30,000 applicants of this kind of service; today, twenty-four thousand of them already enjoy the home help service. And I think that's quite indicative of where the tastes and preferences of the Greek users go. This preference purely for users is also a high rating by professionals, isn't it? I have here an interview with Mr. José Augusto García Navarro, president of the Spanish Society of Jericho, who tells us that in the future we shouldn't even have old residences. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago shows a document.]] When asked for questions such as sheltered apartments, home care, since it points out that these types of services must be enriched, it even speaks of the shift of therapists, physiotherapists to homes and others, and that that is the final objective of what we must have. In the future we shouldn't have residences and we should have everyone else. Perhaps that is the ideal future to which we must aspire, but, of course, we must work to reconcile all these kinds of tools and services that make the Administration available to older and dependent people. In any case, the high valuation of both users and professionals makes this a priority commitment by the Galician Union, which has been realized in a continuous increase in its budget for more than a decade devoted to this type of service, and that it also has that commitment of continuity this year 2021, in which it has also ratified this progressive increase of budget in the budget project currently being dealt with in this chamber. They serve as an example some isolated data. Between 2009 and 2021 and Galician Union, the Government of Alberto Núñez Feijóo, multiplied the funds for home care by seven, multiplied by seven available resources for this type of service. They said in a previous debate that we seem to be obsessed with the Bipartite. It's not obsession, it's a question that I understand that, when we came here, we saw discussion on delivery models, how each of these models is exercised when you have the opportunity to govern. The reality is that this government, the current board of Galicia, has multiplied by seven of the resources of home aid provided by the two-party government. It's not a question of demonizing anyone, it's a question of putting objective data on the table. But that commitment continues to materialize today. The home support service this year 2021 in the budget project increases by 10% and reaches 83.6 million euros. Galicia was already a national leader of this kind of service, but I think we consolidate the service. And that leadership we want to consolidate has a goal, and the goal is to meet the 100 percent of the existing demand for this type of service. And in this I agree with what Mrs Ortega said, because, indeed, the home aid service needs to be rethinked and needs it in the framework of a global review of all these kinds of services. But it's just that Junta is also asking this question. And you know that, because, as a result of that approach or the need to rethink our services of attention to our elders, the new Directorate General for Sociosanitary Care has been created, precisely to do that re-examination. And, besides, since the Government of Galicia has held its hand so that you can add up to that new model that we intend to build among all of you. So I think that's the part where we can agree. Look, here, although we're in a heated debate, I think there are two debates, closely linked, but each with its particularities. First there is the proposal of the Socialist Party of Galicia, which insists on feeding a controversy about the service of help in the extraordinary home which, in my view, has no real support and which, in addition, obeys an interest in creating an artificial controversy based solely on demagoxia. Look, the extraordinary SAF was born as a service to basically pay professional attention to day center users while those day centers were closed due to the pandemic of the vault we came to live in. In the face of a need, which was evident, the Council of Galicia budgeted 6 million euros, gave this extraordinary SAF of five hundred thousand hours and, indeed, as there was no time to waste and we could not be on topics of valuation and so on, for it decided that they were without need of co-op. But that exceptional closure situation of day centers doesn't exist, and day centers are open and are providing their services with normality that allows the current situation. And so I would ask you not to use false arguments. False because you use two arguments: one is the existence that the pandemic continues between us; it is true, the pandemic, yes, but the situation that justified the existence of the extraordinary SAF, no. I'll make a comparison to see if we can agree. Look, you've implemented the ERTE. ERTEs are a tool to try to ease the burden of those shops, of those factories, of those production centers that cannot develop their activity because of the pandemic. The pandemic follows between us, but of course, all those work centers that are now developing their work — they are no longer closed — you do not allow them to have an ERTE, or at least adopt it if incorporation is progressive. Well, this is exactly the same. There is a point problem, the point problem is solved. They open the centers, the extraordinary SAF disappears. They open the workplaces, the ERTE figure disappears. This is quite a reasonable question, which understands everyone, and I don't understand why you are exactly afraid of keeping the opposite. The other issue bothers me even more, because you said it the other day in your last round of intervention in a GNP where we were dealing with this issue in committee and today you've slipped it again. You were talking about the need for extraordinary SAF because of the difficulties and restrictions on mobility. And I think this is more serious now, because then what we are is transferring false information to citizens. No, no, no, no. Older people do not need anyone to go through mobility restrictions, because this issue is already excluded in their own modality restrictions; 1.3 of the decree regulating this situation; I read: "These properly justified movements that occur for some of the following reasons are excluded from the previous limitations (...). Subparagraph (e): Assistance and care, including support to older, minors, dependents, persons with disabilities or particularly vulnerable persons." Don't say the opposite, because you're transferring false information to the Greeks that can have a very negative impact on the company of your relatives, which is perfectly contemplated legally and to the one who has the right. You can't come here saying otherwise, because it's misinformed, Mrs. Ortega. [[Applause]] The consequence of what you propose is that two situations are created that we have not just shared. One would be duality, which would be that people who are being cared for in day-care centers, in addition to enjoying a home help service, which makes no sense, because they are already cared for in those day-care centers. And the second, which is incomprehensible, is that people with fewer requirements had more advantages, because in the extraordinary SAF, of course, was without prior assessment of the emergency situation. But what can't be that someone who hasn't been evaluated enjoys a more advantageous situation than those people who have passed their assessment procedure and who are enjoying the ordinary FAS and making the corresponding co-op. So there's no logic in what you want. For the part of the BNG, what we're trying to do is to address an integral review of the home aid service, but with an approach that we believe has two eves. The first is that it ignores the responsibilities of the different administrations in the provision of the service. And the second is that it prioritizes competency issues on what is the top priority objective of Joina, which I think should be a shared goal: to extend service to 100 of the plaintiffs. You talked about the need for a new collective agreement. Look, the SAF is a service hired by the municipalities, by the way, mostly vastly, mostly privatized by the municipalities, by the BNG, too. I mean, because then there are things that one's got to hear about. Therefore, the Union cannot negotiate a collective agreement because it is not the contractor. In fact, not even those municipalities can negotiate, because they're not the contractors either. No, no, no, no. Whoever has to do this is the union representation of the workers and the workers with the company, and the rest of the administrations will be able to accompany us in that process, mediate and put a hand in what we can, but each one of us corresponds to what he has to do. Then I'll come back on the subject of privatization, if I have time. The system of hours is a system that practically aims to be a flexible system that is compatible with the needs of users and which, of course, does not have to be incompatible with the decent working conditions that workers need. At that we agree, and at that point we can find ourselves. The allocation of hours, Your Honor, is already done objectively. And what we ask and need is the council's commitment to try to use 100 of these hours for the benefit of potential users of this service. As for what you said about the need to establish protocols for preventing gender-based violence, it's already planned. In fact, here I have — I have it from the board page, you can do it as you do — the Guide to Coordinated Action against Abuse of Older Persons or Adults with Disabilities, where such actions are already planned and where even the withdrawal of the SAF in case of sanctions or a precautionary measure is planned, because of course one cannot be cheerfully deprived of a basic social service. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago shows a document.]] Finally, we are living a pandemic situation that needs social distance as the main prevention measure. And I think the SAF has been shown to be an essential tool for compatibility social distance and social care. It's a tool that now needs everyone's commitment, everyone's, because today it's said to compromise the municipalities is little less than disloyalty. Look, all the visitors who passed through the reactivation commission said that it's not the time for the brick or cement, it's the time to invest in people. The board did it. He increased the budget of the SAF and made it available for one million hours; by the way, he made it available, he didn't force anyone to use it, he made it available. And we call for the municipalities to increase their commitment and for the MPs to increase their social commitment too, because now they have the remaining ones — which some group wanted to remove — and now they are at the disposal of the municipalities. By the way, the president of the FEMP himself, before changing his mind and seeking to give $15,000 million to the Government of the State, argued that this remnant had to be for priority uses of a social nature. But is there more social use than funding the home help service? We believe not, and therefore we ask for commitments, gentlemen, we ask for nothing else. And now this service is funded according to the prevailing legality, because here it seems to be talking about non-compliance. [[Applause]] And I explain to you some questions that I think are interesting to everyone. Merger currently provides 67.59 % of the service cost; by the way, percentage on justified expenditure and therefore real cost. The contribution of users is 15.42 % and the municipalities contribute 16.91%. I think there is room to join this attempt to extend this service to 100 of the plaintiffs. It seems to me that there are financial resources and what we have to check is whether there is political will as well. Time will have to look at the improvements SAF needs, I'm sure there is. But that analysis should be done within the scope of an integral re-examination of care for older people and dependent people. In any case, there is a general direction that will be devoted fundamentally — and I think it is a good start — to which this is done in a coordinated manner. It was in the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Reactivation, where the hand was stretched for these purposes, but which continues to be held. But what I ask of you is coherence, because what you can't possibly do is you go to that commission and ask the public to get back all this kind of services and then in their municipalities they lend them companies like Clece, DomusVi, Safir, Eulen, to those you insult in that commission but then you hire when you have the responsibility to do it. This is an exercise of in-to-le-ra-ble hypocrisy. And I ask for coherence, I ask nothing more, coherence. [[Applause]] If you act consistently, if you act in good faith, if you follow the attempt to improve this type of service, you will find a group and a government willing to negotiate, because I believe that what we all want is that the greatest possible services will be enjoyed. We're going to continue to work in that direction, but we're going to do it from coherence, from positive input and not say in a commission something and then act in places where we have responsibility exactly the opposite way. You do it, and it'll be easier for us all to understand. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u147	Thank you, Mr. Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u148	Groups authors of the non-law proposal. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u149	Thank you, President. Mr. Paz, the ERTEs continue where there are limitations, you know, I don't know why they say no. And one thing: what we're asking is that the extraordinary SAF conditions -- you can call it how you want, if you want to change your name -- to move to the ordinary SAF. Is it time to invest in people or not, Mr. Paz, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? Is it time to invest in people or not? Remove the coke from the users, do it. Why don't they? That's what we're asking. I understand you don't want to. I understand that then is not the time to invest in people, as you say. Coherence is what we're asking for. We have to talk about the quality of the hours, not the amount. Professionals themselves are alerting that. That's what we're trying to transfer from our group. Look, it's important to look at the past to understand how we came to the present, and Mariano Rajoy himself said it was sincere with citizenship in 2011, he was sincere. He said: Dependency is not viable. [[Mr. Ortega Otero shows a photograph.]] He was honest and he didn't lie. Starting in 2012, the so-called Dependency Law suffered a series of cuts that fulminated and disappointed the very essence and function of the law. Main cuts. Reduction of the amount established for the economic benefit of care in the family environment. How will the SAF not increase if we leave that kind of care in the family! What I just said means a reduction in the counties received by relatives with dependents under their charge. And not only the count, but they also removed the special social security regime for non-professional caregivers. What's the same: what you want to contribute to Social Security has to pay for it itself. This affected 92 percent of the people affected, who in this case were women. Paralyzing the law over a period of no more than two years for new care-based economic benefits in the family environment. Reduction of the general contribution of the General Administration of the State for financing. They included a new scheme of incompatibilities of benefits, which declared the incompatibility between economic benefits and the services of the catalogue itself. They reduced the hours of the home help service. They went on to grade three, on the top grades, from ninety hours a month to seventy. You did this. And here began the People's Party's break-off. In 2014, dependency loses more than EUR 1 billion. [[Mr. Ortega Otero shows a document.]] Let's keep going. In 2016, Rajoy cut 2,865 million in dependence on his first legislation. The current state government, although it has been a short time, nothing else to start the work, has bet on recovering rights, such as the contribution of caregivers to dependent families. And by the way — even the media have collected it — the Government recovers by decree the contribution of dependent non-professional caregivers; the State will pay the contribution of 957 Greeks and Greeks who care for dependent families. [[Mr. Ortega Otero shows a document.]] [[Mr. Ortega Otero shows a document.]] By the way, we've reached the present moment; there's still another press release a few days ago. "The dependency receives its biggest match since 2012, but far from recovering the 6 billion in cuts." And he goes on to say, "The Association of CEOs of Social Services celebrates their departure, although they consider that much more is needed after the few years" — which I have already mentioned — "by the People's Party." [[Mr. Ortega Otero shows a document.]] It's incredible that they can assume dependency figures and not shame them. The state of well-being is very difficult to build, it costs a lot of effort by a society and by governments and administrations. For example, we can compare it as when a child builds a very high tower with pieces and it costs him a lot; but it's very easy to throw it off a kick; the same kick that the People's Party gave to the law of dependence for all years, the seven years he ruled in the state and here in the Union of Galicia. Today the state continues to rebuild that tower called Dependency Law, which the People's Party has fallen after seven years of state government and here in the Unity of Galicia. [[Applause]] The SAF, the home help service, is one of the services that is found in the shelter, but it's not worth the cost of the workers or the dependents themselves. It's no use if the conditions of users and workers are not optimal. It's no use if the home help service does not have full equipment. There's no point in increasing hours to tuna if the funding to join the board doesn't update and we drown the Town Councils. And the worst of all: if the workers themselves pay the cost of their precarious work. It's no use if Joina doesn't talk to the workers and the workers in the sector and put solutions on the table.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u150	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u151	Why don't you talk to the sector, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? Let's do our best for the new model of attention to our seniors and dependents, and to the workers in the sector, to whom we must thank, even more in this context. Of course it's people's time. Coherence and not just words, but facts, lords of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u152	Thank you, Mrs Ortega. Do you accept the BNG amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u153	We accept if the replacement for the addition is changed. We agree on everything.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u154	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u155	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. First, social services are complementary. Indeed, they have to be conceived as a whole, because they have to adapt to the needs of the user. Often our will may be to stay at home, but it's not the service that best suits our needs and requires institutionalization in a residence, for example. You can't always give priority to will, because the needs often and the technical valuation — for that too were created the valuation teams linked to the Dependency Law — dominate over the desire or will of each or every one of us, which will always be as much as possible, or as far as possible, as long as our lives in our homes can be. That's on the one hand. Then an appreciation, because, of course, Mr Pazos comes here and we almost have to thank him for being the home aid service; it seems not a right acquired by the population of this country. And, of course, listening to you, about all that money Mr. Pazos was telling us about the increase he actually had in the budgets of the Galician board the home help service — not since 2009, if we have taken from the very birth of the service itself, before the approval of the Dependency Act itself, is that the Dependency Act and the services associated with it are progressive. This means that more and more budgets are being increased because more hours are being incorporated into the service provision and more users are also accessing it. The debate we have brought here since the BNG is that the economic contribution, the contribution that the Government of Galician Union makes to the maintenance of a Greek social service — and now I am nudging this question — cannot continue to be the same eleven years later, because it does not adjust to the population reality or to the needs of users linked to the Dependency Law, nor to the actual and effective cost of the service itself, which actually manage and lend the Town Councils, but which is Greek. And for that reason, there is an order, adopted in 2009, which regulates the provision of the home aid service throughout our country, regardless of the municipality that lends it, regardless of the municipality that lends it. And that's the debate we bring today from the Nationalist Block of Galicia. A 2009 order must be reformed, which actually had its functionality; it was, moreover, developed by a government of the Nationalist Block of Wales, but which in all light has deficiencies, has deficiencies, has effects, like all legislation. Any one of us here aspires to get the texts out of this chamber to last many years, but they have the need to adapt to the reality of the country itself. And what it can't be is that you pay €9.70 — you have to set specific examples — regardless of the municipality where you meet us, because you pay the same price for dependency time in the city of Lugo as in the municipality of San Román de Cervantes, when the actual cost of providing the service is not the same, among other things because you are not taking into account the contribution made by Junta the mileage, the displacement and the time that it takes an assistant from the home aid service to get to one home and the other. Of course, within the city of Lugo, even though it is the municipality with more parishes throughout the country, which is fifty-six, the population is much more concentrated than in the municipality of San Román de Cervantes or the Fosgrada, which has to make 17 miles to go home and the other one. And that's not to be taken into account, either, when companies, for example, design quadrants to pay for the shift, the mileage and the expenses associated with the shift of assistants and home help workers. I liked it when I brought the Members' initiative, because I, thinking that I would say the People's Party and how I would argue that I would not support it — nor did we find it very clear at the end of the day that they are going to do, but a priori does not support it — the BNG initiative, we assumed that it would come out of the Members' theme, that they actually make a contribution for free time, those that are not linked to the Dependency Act, in councils of less than 20,000 inhabitants in our country. And then I looked for the data of the Greek MPs — we have four — to see how much each of them actually contributed to meeting, accompanying and helping the municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants in our country. And I read them, eh!, 2020: "The Coruña, 3.2 million euros; Pontevedra, 2.3 million euros —52 municipalities—; Lugo, 1.5 million euros." Do you know which one less contributes? I give them a clue — which is four — that I share here with the majority bench that supports the Government of Galician Union. Indeed, the Council of Ourense, which is the province that has a higher population aging rate, provides 900,000 euros sad. Indeed, I agree with you that you have to make a greater contribution to the home aid service for people — I say — to those municipalities that have less than 20,000 inhabitants. [[Applause]] We insist: we cannot try to use the Reactivation Commission as a sub-refugee to deny the debates in this chamber. That commission and the work that takes place within the panel when it is set up do not steal the power of impulse and political initiative of the groups within this plenary and within this chamber. They don't try to hide a necessary debate, which was before it came to our lives, trying to tell us you'll come back tomorrow. That's a debate that has been pending since before it got to the vault, but now it's become even more important to fit in. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u156	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr José Alberto Pazos Couñago and six other Members, on the demand from the Government of Greece to the Central Government of the transfer to the Autonomous Community of Galicia of the management of the minimum vital income created by Royal Decree Law 20/2020
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u157	This motion for a non-law has been amended by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia and by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u158	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mr Paz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u159	Thank you, President. Well, here again. By the way, by punctuation, as I see that at the socialist bench they tend to suffer from this flaw in memory, I remind you that all those cuts of what you're talking about have appeared after the biggest collapse of the economy of our recent history, which has led them to you by course to freeze pensions and cut everyone, 100 percent of the country's public salaries. From the side you always forget, Mrs. Ortega, always forget! [[Applause]] It's a very curious thing. By the way, Mrs. Rodil, when I talk about the data on the comparable magnitudes between provinces, I also compare -- the populations of the province, because they also influence a little about these things -- I think -- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Finally, we are going to what we are going to do, because today we are proposing an initiative in which we demand the transfer of minimum income management to the State in favour of the Galician Union, a request that we understand is twice as important. First, because of the need to speed up the aid associated with the minimum vital income and to reach the potential beneficiaries as quickly and effectively as possible. And secondly — which is no less important — because we believe that Galicia cannot accept discriminatory treatment with respect to other autonomous communities. Look, the vital minimum income is born as an income of inclusion that aims to guarantee the basic livelihood of people at risk of social exclusion. This is the risk model and many other basic incomes of an autonomous nature, in the case of Risga already implemented since 1991. And it has to be said that it has given rise to a broad consensus in Congress, to the point that it was adopted without a vote against, with some abstention, with the support of the popular bench group as well. Although there are differences in their approach, but understanding that in a context derived from the social and health pandemic we are living in, it seems reasonable that a number of measures are implemented that aim to address the basic needs of an important population group. In fact, the goal of the minimum vital income was to reach 850,000 homes, 2.5 million people would benefit, and to achieve almost immediately a reduction in poverty in our country by 80%. I suppose some of us believe them, but it was the cost of unhearing the French friar, who, always wise, says that of: "When alms is too much, even the saint despairs." And we should have mistrusted, because the reality is that following the precedent of the Dependency Law, of which the socialist representative spoke to us a short time ago, a left-wing government once again created a huge one! social expectations that, once again, end up in great social frustration. Here they spoke before acquired rights. Of course, one thing is that rights are created and then rights are consolidated. Usually, create them on the left; then, they consolidate them to us, and when they're consolidated they tell us about acquired rights. But it's just that you never approve a right and then you fund it or put money in order for that right to materialize. Look, an example: the Dependency Law. [[Applause]] Mrs. Ortega criticized Mr. Rajoy as saying he wasn't viable. Man!, as it was suggested, of course it was not viable. So much so that we've been funding autonomous communities for ten years. See if you weren't able to do it! By the way, we continue, ten years later, demanding 50% of the state's contribution, because of course, you come here later and ask 100% of a service like the SAF's, but you forget this 50% contribution. By the way -- yes, yes, most importantly -- you buy 50%, because you say this was because Mr. Rajoy was a cutter who was trying not to do it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The most expansive budget in Spain's history, with unprecedented European funds, which is focused primarily on meeting people's needs, so you are still not paying 50% of the dependency! They ask for free but pay the board. [[Applause]] It's just that you have to have a minimum! Look, the reality, after all these life-threatening minimum income promises, is that these 850,000 homes have reached 160,000, and that in Galicia of the 40,000 alleged beneficiaries have reached less than 8,000, less than 20%. Of course, you started with your specialties. Look, there were first complaints by workers about irregularities in the processing of the minimum vital income; we're going to ignore them. Then we have to look for a culprit: "The government finds delays in the minimum vital income at the time of shooting of the workers of the public Tragsa"; it is due to two workers. And in the end, reality ends up improvising, and after successive improvisations we arrive at: "The minimum income returns to the workshop. The Minister of State recognises that he will not reach the 850,000 homes" to which he was planning. Six months later, Mr. Scrivá acknowledges the failure, and also — for being fair — is the only thing that gives the face, because, six months later, Mr. Churches and Mrs. Díaz, hidden. Between Galicia and the opposition groups ask us to make minimum living income and risk compatible, the Government continues to change its regulations. I'm asking two questions. The first: shouldn't it be the minimum vital income that is adapted to the incomes of autonomous social integration, which have been functioning for more than thirty years? The second question: how do we adapt to a legislation that, even today, continues to be unconsolidated and that of which new reforms continue to progress? How does this consolidate? Look, the reality is that we're faced with a new overproduction of the Sanchez-Iglesias factory. A new startling failure, because when it comes to moving from the announcement to reality, or advertising to the facts, there, indeed—and Mrs Ortega has given good evidence—the headlines give them good; putting the money, others will come. The reality is that Galicia needs to transfer the funds associated with the minimum income vital to integral power in a medium-term income. It should be a single income, which allows you to avoid duplication, improve your benefits and meet some ponds of your own vital minimum income. We believe that we have to articulate around Risga that only income, because it has some advantages that we think are obvious. First, because Risga is linked to the fulfilment of a social integration itinerary, which seems to us to be an interesting issue. Second, because more people arrive; people who share the floor can charge more than 900 euros with the Risk and, instead, with the minimum vital income, only 600 euros. Also because, given the requirements for access to minimum vital income, there are certain groups that could not have access, contrary to the risk; for example, persons between 18 and 23 years old who come from juvenile centres or from a prison; those with disabilities equal to or greater than 33%; those who are in absolute orphanship; persons who have legal residence in a Galician town for less than one year — Risga only requires six months; minimum vital income requires twelve months; people who live alone and cannot prove to have contributed a minimum of twelve months to Social Security — that minimum vital income also leaves out. In addition, Risk includes a short-term process in cases of gender-based violence, which the minimum vital income does not include. So we find it interesting to work around this autonomous income. Honestly, I think we need to look for complementarity between the two and not compatibility, because it doesn't make sense that we support 100% two social integration incomes without covering these gaps and without improving the overall functioning of both. I sincerely believe that the social needs of citizens cannot be subjected to political trade, because there is no impediment to this transition being achieved, except for the will of the Government of Mr Sánchez and Mr Iglesias to punish Galicia once again. This is the reality, gentlemen, because the Government of Sánchez seems willing to pay any price to remain in the Government and to any injustice to punish those who do not submit to their desire and desire for power. We can't share this, gentlemen. Galicia does not deserve political abuse to which it is being subjected and, therefore, we ask that if we are recognized as the historical nationality that we are and that we are not denied the resources that we do not know very well why it has already been granted to the Basque Country and Navarre - these two told us that it was a matter of caring for the speciality - and now Catalonia too, because it needed the votes of Left to try to disturb itself a little more in the saddle and therefore what was impossible in a few hours changed as possible. Home!, since there is already a clear finding that this depends on no other matter but on political will, what we ask you to do is show political will. I think, frankly, after the recent fall of the BNG horse on the way to Damascus, we were told, "No, we kept our posture." [[Laughter]] Hey, I'm still in regular memory. A month ago you were in this chamber pulling the chest out of the historic agreement BNG had reached for the budgets and now they've forgotten all this! [[Applause]] But what do you mean, sir, but, what do you mean, sir? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] If anyone was robbed to tell them they'd been tricked by the placekeeper. Please, let's be a little serious! They've rectified. I applaud the decision, I think it's all right. So, since you fell off the horse, see if there's any luck...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u160	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u161	...and the Socialist Party — I don't know if the horse, but at least the donkey's bottom — supports this, because I believe that for any representative of this chamber it is simply unthinkable that what is given for political interests to the Basque Country, Navarra and Catalonia is denied to the Greeks. The Vascondates, the Vascondates, actually, it's okay... [[Mr. Bará Torres utters words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u162	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u163	I like that Mr Bará also has time for the Royal Dictionary of the Spanish Academy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u164	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u165	In fact, there it contains the term "Vascongates". Vascongadas or Basque Country, all our respect for them, but exactly the same respect for the Greeks, which demand equal treatment with those historical nationalities, which is exactly the valuation we deserve. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u166	Thank you, Mr. Couñago. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u167	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Galicia is bringing us an initiative that presents as an outrage of the Government of the State towards the Government of Galicia. The truth is, anyone might think it's about the State's creation of some privilege or a right to citizenship in which the Greeks and the Greeks are excluded; in the end... The Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Galicia does not bring us an initiative for the Government of Galicia to put the means to change the situation of vulnerability in which Greek men and women have lived during the eleven years of government of Feijóo in Galicia, no initiative in which it asks to use politics to be useful to the Greeks and to the Greeks who are worse off. [[Applause]] Nor does it bring a bill to convert Risga, either as a complement to the minimum vital income or as a complement to other social needs that exist in our territory. No, that doesn't bring it here by the People's Party. The Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Galicia brings an initiative to whisper, once again, to the Government of the State, to the Government of Pedro Sánchez, to that government that you do not understand is a legitimate government and that governs for people, so that no one will stay behind. You, the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party — the group that supports the Government of Greece — should remember that the PP in Galicia has been ruling for eleven years, and eleven years forgetting people living in poverty or at risk of social exclusion. You, with your absolute majority, with your predatory knee, prevented initiatives brought to this chamber by the socialists during these legislations from coming forward; initiatives brought by the socialists who would have allowed the Greek Government to come up with resources to alleviate the situation of these people who live, sometimes in circumstances of extreme vulnerability. Look, I'm going to give them data -- as always, data -- data that they had to be ashamed of, because behind this data, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, there are people, there are men and women, there are children from here, from our country, from Galicia, from here, from here; people often invisible to those whom this government has not met either its legal obligation or its moral obligation to put the means within its grasp to help them overcome their situation. We could take several sources, but I'm going to focus on the latest data published by the European Network of Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion, The State of Poverty in Galicia, simply because it's the most up-to-date data, which corresponds to 2019. And what is inescapable, Mr Pazos Couñago, is that in 2019 — before the covid pandemic — there were 655,000 people in Galicia who were in poverty or social exclusion — more than in 2018. What is unthinkable is that in 2019 two out of 10 people in Galicia were at risk of poverty — especially in 2018 — and that in 2019 in Galicia 212,000 people lived in severe poverty. That's what's unthinkable, Mr. Paz Couñago. [[Applause]] So neither the economic recovery of recent years before the pandemic nor decent employment has come to most people who were in a state of poverty or social exclusion in our Galicia. We can look at other sources, if you like. We can go to the IGE, and the IGE tells us that in the fourth quarter of 2019 almost 46% of the Greek homes showed that they had difficulties or many difficulties to arrive at the end of the month. And that percentage goes up to 52% in the third quarter of 2020. And it also tells us the IGE that in the third quarter of 2020 there were 53,200 homes in Galicia with all its members unemployed and 33,500 homes without income. That's what's unthinkable. Look, ladies and gentlemen, you know perfectly well that, in order to combat poverty and social exclusion, the solution goes through a firm commitment by governments to ensure the development of a dignified life while facilitating the incorporation of people into itineraries of work. Because the creation of quality jobs is essential for the whole circuit to be completed. But the legacy we have of the People's Party governments doesn't say that. In the state it was thanks to the reforms of Mariano Rajoy who was born the poor working class; those people who work but whose work does not allow them to get out of this poverty situation or join in full social inclusion. Nor in Galicia was job creation a priority of the various governments of Nuñez Feijóo in Galicia. The number of busy after eleven years of rule by Mr. Núñez Feijóo did not reach the data of the year 2009, when he was ruled by Emilio Pérez Touriño. And the Government of Nuñez Feijóo, in this last legislation, has failed to execute 447.5 million euros in employment policies. That's what's unthinkable, Mr. Paz Couñago. [[Applause]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, before the pandemic already in Galicia we had a very high percentage of vulnerable population, and employment, far from being a priority for this government, was a collateral damage to their policies. But of course, these people have never been a priority for this government; their priority is to flout the government of the state, that is, when in the state they rule a party other than the People's Party, because, when Mariano Rajoy ruled, you came here, they shut up and followed their policies. But look, it turns out that when the Government of the State — the Government of Pedro Sánchez — promotes legislation on matters that directly affect the lives of the most vulnerable people; when it promotes that, at last, in this country — understood as a whole Spain — an equal minimum income is guaranteed by law for the entire territory that allows the life of these families to be re-incorporated actively into society, which makes it easier for them to return to the sources of active search for employment, training for employment or job improvement, which enables them to develop a dignified life, at the moment, the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party and the Government of Galicia are more concerned about those who manage this minimum vital income, seeking political income, instead of arbitrating measures of collaboration with the State which assumes a social income, which is truly affecting the lives of people. While you seek confrontation with the state, the Government of Pedro Sánchez works to respond to the current problems of society. As you scream, the Government of Pedro Sánchez legisla to get 2.3 million people out of the state of poverty or risk of exclusion. When the PP governs, the inequalities in our country are aggravation, leaving the opportunities to those who have the most, increasing their wealth, and forgetting what they have, which increase their poverty. With a socialist government in the state, with this socialist government of Pedro Sánchez, the vital minimum income was put in place, which aims to correct the redistributive and activating shortcomings of current public policies, which have proved clearly insufficient to address this situation. This is a benefit that has to be approved and developed in a record time. In February, he was talking about approving it at the end of the year, but the pandemic forced that people should immediately be cared for, and so in May it was approved and in June, they began to charge the first beneficiaries. You present an initiative in which you claim to manage this benefit. But look: we socialists believe that the Greek Government is currently not prepared, since it has a significant deficit in the management of the benefits it has in charge. If you really want to manage the minimum vital income, you have to get to work, tell the government to get to work, since since the minimum vital income approval, the homes benefited in Galicia, in the six months of development, are already above 9,000, i.e. almost 70% of the homes benefited by Risk. And the experience of the management of the Galician Board revealed to us that the Government of Greece takes about six months to solve the files of the non-contributory disability pension, ninety-five days to solve the non-contributory retirement pension, while the average time for the recognition of a contribution pension by Social Security, that is, by the state, is only eleven days. And the Galician Union — you said so in your intervention — has been managing the Galician Social Inclusion Report for 18 years. And for a volume of 13,600 applications in 2019 it took more than two months to solve them. So we don't think they're in the best of circumstances...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u168	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u169	...of efficiency to manage this new benefit. Having said that, we have tabled an amendment which we would like to accept for this chamber to come out with a unanimous agreement allowing the Government of Greece, together with the Government of the State, to analyse, within the framework of collaboration established by the Royal Decree Law 20/2020, of minimum vital income, and under criteria of efficiency, the management of this provision by the Autonomous Community of Galicia, maintaining ways of dialogue and agreements with the Central Government. We hope that you will be accepted and, of course, we will vote against it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u170	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u171	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all of us again. I'll tell you something, Mr. Paz. The position of the People's Party on this subject, as in so many others recently, seems to me to be between tender and the height of cynicism, because, look, you are concerned with the status of the nation or historical nationality of this country, zero, zero. [[Applause]] All they care about is how useful it is to screw the Socialist Party in Madrid. And I'll give you an example. You've been — because, of course, anyone would think they just walked in through the door yesterday, but not — ruling this country eleven years, eleven years, with an absolute majority. Do you know how many competitions has won this country's self-government in eleven years? Zero, zero! Never, since this country has recognized its own self-government in the 1981 Statute, never, ever a party that has been during — I insist — eleven years in the Government did not bring even those that were the object of unanimity in this chamber. And I tell them some: competition in the management of scholarships for study; nothing, nor were they asked for it. Jurisdiction in the field of prison health; it was also the subject of a unanimous and recognized agreement in addition to other territories of the Spanish State, to guarantee the rights of prisoners in prisons in our country — which are fundamental rights, that must also be remembered. Nothing, not a single competition in eleven years! You are interested in this political status, the status of a nation, the status of a historical nationality, the fair, Mr. Pazos, the just, to oppose the Government of the Socialist Party in the Spanish State. But you don't defend Galicia. You're wrapped up in the flag and you're instrumentalizing the Galicians and the Greeks to oppose another party when they rule in Madrid. I tell them that tomorrow you, the People's Party, enter again through the door of the Moncloa and sit Mr. Married there in that holy house, and you are again the procession of the little ones, who have been being, in addition, for eight years, while ruling the People's Party in Madrid. [[Applause]] He used to talk about the law of dependence. I tell you every time that debate opens: there has not been a single government, not a single one since that law was passed in 2006 — and several have passed — that it has paid 50 percent that obliges Spanish law to bring the Spanish Government closer to the maintenance and support of fundamental rights that are of dependent people. But then, of course, he comes here and tells us that he transferred to Euskadi and Navarre — we'll stop right in these two cases — and also Catalonia. That's a lie, that's a lie. He hasn't been transferred to Catalonia. Of course, here we can come and read the press headlines we want, but I think the right thing to do with the truth and the citizenship of this country is that we read the Official Gazette of the State and the Official Journal of Galicia. He hasn't been transferred to the Generalitat de Cataluña. But neither did the Basque Government nor the Navarro Government, despite the fact that it marks the law governing this benefit. Is it a privilege, as the People's Party has said on this initiative, to compete with Euskadi and Navarra in managing minimum living income? Because I'm going to tell them something too: that for the devotees who are of the Spanish Constitution, they read little. First additional provision, which recognizes the historic rights of the outer territories, and the Law of Economic Concert 12/2002, the coupon. [[Murmurs.]] It's called economic sovereignty, and if you think it's fairer for the workers and the Basque workers and the workers and the Navarre workers, they demand the same for this country. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] It's an outrage -- I love that revival moment for ninety years of Greek nationalism -- it's an outrage, they say it's an outrage, right? Because here besides you want to create that false dichotomy that this is a problem, a conflict between the Basque-working people, the yellow-working people, the Basque worker, the Catalan worker. That's also another milonga more to try to cover up what's really behind all this: that the problem this country has is the scarce political power it has, and the problem this country has is the competitive framework that creates that sacrosanct Constitution with which you get a lot of chest blows with it, but then you don't read it. We are pleased — I have to tell you, from the BNG, that you now see the limits of that competence framework which you both venerate and the negative consequences of the scarce — not to say ever more empirical — political power that this country has, because, indeed, Galicia has recognised competences in social policy and social services, but has neither own farm nor has any competence in social security, which is what is rejected by that vital minimum income. This is a perfect example of how centralizing competences is neither more efficient nor more effective, nor much less fairer. That's absolutely a lie. It is a good measure, it is a very good measure the vital minimum income — we have always said it — for one reason basically: because what it does is to guarantee more rights and increase incomes of inclusion or self-integration, except for those that are still higher than the minimum vital income. It's the Basque case and the navarro case again, among other things, because of the financial capacity that these two territories have. But what is very mismanaged, is a chapuza — I have to say it like this — is an absolute chapuza, is an absolute chapuza taken up to that unique and exclusively by pure sectarianism, for wanting to centralize competences and not grant them the recognition and exercise of the processing of this benefit to autonomous communities. And now what we have is thousands of people, not in Galicia, hundreds of thousands of workers in the Spanish state — as a whole — who have recognised rights but do not have access to that benefit. We're just talking about more than 20 percent of the people who have rights, they're going to benefit from that minimum vital income today. We, at the BNG, have been demanding from the very first moment the transfer of the management of the minimum vital income, but why? —that's the important part—, why? What's the goal? The first is to materialize that right formally recognized in legislation. And the second — and most important of all — is that it serves to create a true Galician income of social and labor integration and to overcome with that the evas and the deficiencies of Galician income of social integration and inclusion. That's the key, because of course, here's an example that the Board has been managing Risk for thirty years, but what about Risk? Is that the model to follow Galician social inclusion income? No, no, no, no. First, because poverty today is not the 1990s. Today morning the People's Party member said that the best guarantee of social inclusion was a job. Indeed, but the reality that we have, thanks to the labour reform of the People's Party, is that 12.5% of Galician workers don't have enough income to meet their basic needs. We're talking about 130,000 people who don't have enough income to pay the bills, pay the rent and buy the food to eat — which is a bourgeois luxury — three times a day. Secondly, it is necessary to reach all people who need it, because Risga is not reaching all people who need it. No vital minimum income is enough, but no risk does. The degree of coverage of minimum incomes in Galicia — basically the Risga, but there are also some municipalities — is 6.3%, compared to the state average of 8% and, above all, the eye! — in front of the territories that have the best and highest coverage, which are Basquedi and Navarra, with 63% and 70%. That's the example to follow. That model is what — taking into account the reality we have in our country, because it cannot be adopted mimetically — must serve as a guide. For what? To guarantee a fundamental right, which is the right of everyone to have incomes that allow them to live, and to live in decent conditions. Risga is the second-largest income of self-inclusion in the Spanish state. You know which one is the first? Madrid. It's only compatible with a job for six months, and it's gradually decreasing month by month, until the seventh one falls without it. You can still earn a salary of misery, but the risk disappears. How much is it charged for the reform of 2019 - which came five years late, because what the Greek legislation said was that this reform had to be approved, at most, in 2014 -? I'm telling you honestly, you're not going to teach either efficiency, efficiency, or agility, because you've delayed five years! Five years! to make that Risga compatible, for only six months, with a job. [[Applause]] In our country, an adult without a minor in charge receives 403 euros of Risga. Four hundred three euros of Risga is what I pay for rent in Lugo! That's for people to realize what an income of these characteristics is! You have to live! You have to live! How much do you charge an adult with a minor or a minor in charge? Four hundred and eighty euros. What about a family with four members? Less than 600 euros a month. A unit of cohabitation of four people receives less than 600 euros a month. It's not to beat your chest or to boast of anything. Actually, the minimum vital income improved those counts, but what can't be, is that you put on the paper that you have the right to something and then that something never arrives, because it causes a huge frustration among many people who have a huge expectation put, precisely, on that income guarantee. This is a chance. We agree. We have to ask for the transfer of management and funds, but it has to serve, and for that it is necessary to modify the current regulations of our country to create a real income of inclusion and social integration. What is a right, and that we can never forget, is work, but work with decent wages and working conditions. That's also what we formulate, in addition, with our amendment of addition, which we hope will be taken into account and accepted for, really, not to get involved in the Welsh flag just to scratch the other way around, but to be useful to the Greeks and the Greeks and the workers and to the workers of this country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u172	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Group that is the author of the Non-Legal Proposal, Mr. Pazos Couñago has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u173	Anyway, ladies, something they have in common. And how long these eleven years are being made to them and how long the four that are left will be made to them! You have to take it easy, gentlemen. [[Applause]] To say that we are useful or not useful is something that the Greeks are deciding every four years and for now they are not very well stopped, but, well, I don't know... we believe in Galicia's political weight. Mrs. Rodil, you seem to think you have little weight, and I think you confuse Mr. Rego's political weight with Galician political weight. They're two very different pesos, fortunately for the Greeks. Man, I read the Constitution, I studied it, and I also say it's not bad reading. [[Murmurs.]] I recommend it, because so they wouldn't say things like it's a historic right to manage an income that was created six months ago. This is a truly curious constitutional interpretative novelty, Your Honor; Curious! Look, let's see if we all focus. Mrs Rumbo, another great breakdown of the Socialist Party, was saying that a privilege for citizenship is not being created. One question: exactly why did you commit the assignment to the Basque Country, Navarre and Catalonia? Why do you think they will manage it worse? I guess it'll be because they think they'll manage it better by the neighborhood they have on the territory. Why not Galicia? I'm asking a pretty logical question, because, of course, you... oh, no!, it's because you -- "the teacher" -- just told us that we're not ready and that we have to go to the resale to see if they let us manage the minimum vital income. Let me accept the note when it comes to the Greeks and not to you. If you want to compare notes, I won't tell you any more, Your Honor. [[Applause]] You say we're before a legitimate government that didn't leave anyone behind. He's right about that. Look, he didn't leave Podemos behind, after saying that they wouldn't rule with them because they were going to take their sleep; he didn't leave left behind the Republican Left, after saying that he would never have the governorship of the state in the independentists; and he didn't even leave behind Bildu, after he said, "We'll never deal with Bildu, we'll never deal with Bildu... how many times do I have to tell him that we won't deal with Bildu?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh They don't leave anyone behind. [[Applause]] That's what I have to recognize. Look, you say, "I'm going to give you the poverty data of the last year, because..." of course, of the last year because you're interested in you, because if you go to the poverty comparison between the last year you've ruled and this year, after a decade of crisis, it turns out that there's less poverty in Galicia today than when you were ruling. Home!, who talks to me has a pass, but who talks about it to the president of the German Network against poverty, who recognized it two weeks ago in the Commission, I think it's too much cynicism for the Socialist Party itself. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Honestly, don't go that way. There's no more poverty in Galicia, neither by the AROPE rate, nor by the Gini index, nor by the 80-20. You take the indicator you want. We're better than when you were ruling, and we want to improve, and that's why we're asking for this income, because we want to keep improving. I don't comment on the job, because to me, every time a socialist comes to talk to me about creating a job, it makes me laugh weak and I can't. So I have little time and I'm going to take advantage of it in other things. You say we intend to "scream the state." Mrs. Rodil told me that we have to improve and take the basic example: maximum income for the Basque Country, EUR 915; maximum German, EUR 914. Man, we're not doing so bad. I say it's a matter of conditioners, after seeing each individual and seeing case by case. But as for the zumbar state, I liked the expression. "Zumbar to the State," for you will know why. But I wonder who sucks who. Who's zumba to whom, Mrs. Rumbo? Look, you increased your investment in Valencia by 50%; in the Basque Country by 56%; in Catalonia by 48% and reduced your investment in Galicia by 11.2%. In recent budgets you have doubled the Basque concert as a sample of Galician speciality. In the same agreement, they agreed to reduce the fiscal autonomy of all communities to adapt it to the specific criteria that Catalonia marks. You called him "harmonization." By the way, Mrs Rodil, your list partners, who, speaking of centralizing competences, are the world's first recentralizing independentists. They have removed the financial control of the Generalitat and are ready, as they have announced, to amend the offence of sedition in the Criminal Code. For what? To gain the confidence of the most disloyal self-government in recent decades. At the same time, you attack the successor pacts of the Italian civil law and legislate the historic rights of a community where we have been ruling eleven years with absolute loyalty to the state. You put 20 million euros in the budgets for Barcelona's cultural co-capitality, but you don't put a single euro for Xacobeo. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They yield the management of the minimum income vital because there is a political commitment...—I hear noise, Mr President; I hear noise!—explained in favour of the Basque Country, Navarre and Catalonia, and they deny the transfer of the minimum income vital to Galicia, because Mrs Rumbo considers that the Government is not mature. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago addresses Mr. President.]] [[Murmurs.]] But who sucks at who? But what's this joke?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u174	Let's finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u175	You come here to take the hair of the Greeks, and we can't afford it. [[Applause]] The Government of Galicia is already older and does not need a certificate of maturity granted by the Socialist Party. I cannot, of course, admit the amendment of the PSdEG. Mrs. Rodil, if you like, I think we can talk and try to reach agreement on the amendment you have tabled; we try and see if we are who. If I may — yes — I wanted to tell you that I've been given some last-minute information. You should have talked to a mayor of the BNG, specifically that of Ferriers, who has the direct management of the Home Help Service, and who in the middle of the pandemic said that their workers had no right to charge the kilometre. I'm telling you, because you might be able to pass the motion you presented here today, because it's in your interests. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u176	Thank you, Mr. Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u177	We are now debating the next proposal together, because it is an initiative of the three groups of the House. Non-legislative proposal of GGs. PP. Popular of Galicia, the Galego Nationalist Block and the Galician Socialists, on the demand that the Government of Galicia must make to the Central Government for the creation of the new emergency medicine specialty
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u178	No amendments were tabled. Since it's a joint proposal, the Speaker's Board has agreed to be a five-minute debate for each group. Then we will begin with the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Torrado has the floor for a time of five minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u179	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Today we are moving an agreement between the groups on a proposal that is not new, but, sadly, that has a long time, and which could be resolved soon, according to all the information they point, even the information that the Central Government is forwarding. We say it's not new, and it has to do with the creation of the emergency specialty within the National Health System. A speciality about which many citizens, in general, may not be aware — nor is it necessary for them to have full knowledge of the system — but it is not a specialty for themselves. Emergency is a commendable job; emergency services solve problems, many times too serious, which affect our day-to-day, our most basic vital capacity, but it's not a specialty as such. They start in emergencies, with thousands of other specialties when they rotate, but they don't recognize a specialty capacity, and that has to do with the National Health System needs to be updating and shaping their paintings and human resources policies as time goes on. It's a fair and legitimate claim, although I don't unite with the entire health group; yes, probably, among the emergency group, but the people who are following us -- but we send a scrupulous greeting; some of them known, in addition, personally -- know that it's a debate that has had some opposition within the medical group, as is normal and legitimate, as in some cases may be primary professionals -- less than before -- who considered it equally inappropriate. In any case, this is a subject that has been advancing in time and this specialty — as we say — is a subject that comes from a long time ago. Administration is slow, undoubtedly; generally, it's usually a guarantee issue, but also because slowness often has to do with reluctance of the system and with the intention of creating agreements and consensuss that allow us to move forward. We are in favour of this initiative. This is a historical debate in which it is also true that it is necessary to clarify, without much more courage, that, because each one is responsible for what he is doing, to clarify some question. It's a job that comes from a distance, since we've probably talked about more than ten years that Semes has been demanding the claim of this specialty. We say that for more than ten years now there has been a negotiation and dialogue work with political leaders, with management officials and parliaments, especially in the Congress of Deputies, because it is a state issue. As a result of that, Semes took a non-law proposition to the Congress of Deputies. I'm going to avoid saying that I broke it so they wouldn't accuse me of partyism, but it's also true that it was unanimously approved. To put it in terms of years, we're talking about the IX legislation, because legislation in Spain, especially in recent times, has distorted the annual distribution quite a lot. We're talking about the year 2010. Companion Alberto Fidelgo — a fellow our professional from Ourense and loved here by professionals and by people from all over the parliamentary circle — worked a lot on that issue. And that advance -- good for all -- when he arrived in 2011, as the song says, "the commander arrived and ordered to stop." From 2011 to 2018, zero advances were made. What is more, the problem we had on this issue is that, being aware that it was difficult and that it was a question that raised this problem that we had pointed out earlier, a reduction in the previous proposal, a priori adopted by consensus. When the PP didn't rule in Madrid he agreed to recognize the specialty, but later, when he had to govern, that concept of "specific ability" appeared with Minister Ana Mato and Mr. Castro Deza in front of human resources management and the thing was already a little more complicated. It happened in 2018, the government changed — I lost myself in legislations — and now we see the PP claiming — and it's okay — a demand that's difficult, that's slow, but that's necessary and that we share. It's good that we all join in a deal. It would be better if, following the agreement of Parliament and the Congress of Members, the governments that passed from 2011 to 2018 had done so, and so we would no longer be with this debate, but they didn't; they voted in favour when others were ruling, but then they didn't, and now we're in this. The Minister of Health said, practically at the end of last year or at the beginning of this year—now I don't feel well about the date, but about that line—that the Royal Decree that it regulates was close to being approved, and that's good news. During the pandemic, which slowed down this kind of progress because the outbreaks were elsewhere, it was advanced that, despite a little delay, it would still go on. We're in favor. We are pleased that we can all agree, that the initiative can go forward this time; and we congratulate those who have been behind this claim for a long time. We are committed to being conscious and to solving reticence through dialogue; and, in addition, we embrace and endorse the work of the Ministry, which is in the process of that real decree. Through the Commission on Human Resources, the National Health System will launch this claim, which is legitimate and historic, from which we are glad that a consensus has been reached, but it will also be good for the National Health System. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u180	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u181	Thank you, President. In fact, today the three parliamentary groups representing this Parliament are presenting a joint initiative — good afternoon, Counsellor — signed by the three groups; of course, that means that the three groups agree, it seems more than obvious. I greet the people who are probably following us, because this is an initiative that has come to us through the Semes — the Spanish Society for Emergency Medicine and Emergency Medicine — and that then in the Committee on Reactivation – in which the Greek President has appeared — the so far also president at the State level of the Semes has called upon us to support this initiative again. So BNG will also support her, because she only asks for the creation of the Emergency Medicine and Emergency Specialty. This is a demand that comes from old age, quite old. There have been professionals who have been asking this question for thirty years at an individual level, at a collective level, and basically at a level of the scientific society I mentioned. Of course, one of the first questions that needs to be asked is why this specialty isn't created yet. There are certain discrepancies in some of the collective; some may be more or less shared, but the reality is that in the Congress of Deputies there are favourable initiatives, in the Senate there are favorable initiatives, an important part of the parliaments of the autonomous communities are favourable, in the Interterritorial Council of Health there is practically a favourable position of the advisers present, but it turns out that the creation of this specialty does not go forth. I know who's going to say it's because at first it's been processed through a trunquality decree that couldn't be, but the reality is that this specialty if there's it for the Army - which, once again, it seems like they have military supplies and lack health - but the specialty is not created. We, of course — and I say it quite frankly — hope that it will be done at once and that it will not be left in the drawer again — just like other fundamental issues, such as the rate of rest —; that the squares of emergency and emergency specialty should be added to other necessary squares; that there is no temptation that, once created, they will divide them with regard to how many, for example, they will go to the formation of family or community medicine; and that they will not be divided with emergencies, but will add up, because there is a lot of need. It is evidence that many of the squares of people who provide their services in the wide sense of emergency services — whether hospitalized or out-of-hospital — in the CAP, or in emergency land or air transport services, come from a very important part of family or community medicine; also from internal medicine and killings, but mainly from these. With which, this specialty is necessary, but to add not to divide the squares. I believe that the arguments are perfectly clear in the initiative that brought us to that need, that there is an increasing need for skills in certain techniques that apply in emergencies and that time and skill in applying these techniques is essential. The situation in which primary care professionals are very saturated, often, prevents them from training on these techniques; and having good emergency care training is good for professionals and for the assistance they provide. It is a specialty recognized in many of the countries around us — with variables, with more precise nuances — especially in recent times, where attention to urgency and emergency has gained more relevance, and where — I insist — time is a fundamental element. Therefore, the BNG supports this initiative and I insist that it should be added to the requests made from other areas, that it should be done now and that there should be an excuse not to be a reality, because we don't understand the reasons that they make today, after many years of positioning in many administrations -- speak of Congress, Senate, autonomous administrations -- it's not a reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u182	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Vázquez Almuña has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u183	Good afternoon. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. Mr. Health Counsellor. The truth is that I want to thank my group today for letting me participate, for several reasons: one, because, as you know, this week is my farewell to the plenary session of Parliament, for this Friday I will take possession as president of the Port Authority of Vigo; then because it is my background, I was an emergency doctor, and therefore it is dear; and, moreover, because it is unanimous. In Parliament too, it is good that there are unanimous motions, even if something always comes out, there is always some hair that has to be removed from all arguments, but it is the same. Thank you very much for the group, the spokesperson general, Pedro Puy, and the health spokespersons for giving me this opportunity to intervene. The truth, as I say, I believe that the demand of emergency doctors is fair and comes from far; but it comes from far as medicine comes. In the end, it's a registered activity, at the level of medical practice, for thirty-seven centuries, since the Hammurabi Code, which already indicated what to do with certain sick people. The evolution of medicine, especially in the last 50 years, has made it impossible for a doctor to embrace all knowledge; therefore, in the last century, the exclusive emergence of medical specialties and, above all, superspecialities began. In addition, we proceed to a system that implants in Spain, copying the American model, which they called "learning by working", the MIR system. It's a system that begins to form these doctors in a coordinated and always with puppetry. A little earlier, health care homes are also created, where medical specialists gather in a building and can care for patients in a complex and complementary way. There came a service, which initially sought to assist 24 hours a day and 365 days a year, which were emergency doctors or known at that time as "door doctors." Since then, many years have passed. They are doing a great job of serving the population, and so they are clearly registered and evaluated by all citizenship and by young doctors. Many of them are saying that, in case there was a specialty, a high percentage would choose as such. They've been growing up in staff, and they've completed teams with nursing, janitors and nursing assistants, and also when they've been integrated into the other hospital services, always with radiology, with laboratories and forming a multidisciplinary team that today has magnificent results that make citizenship valuable. In the reforms and new hospitals, the area of Emergency always increases. In fact, the last large hospital that was built, the Álvaro Cunqueiro de Vigo Hospital, has an area of 6,000 square meters, and has also increased the area of the Emergency Service at the Coruña Hospital. In all the new hospitals and in all the reforms that take place in them, this is always the case. The data, in addition, endorses it: more than a million actions a year have the emergency services of Galicia and more than 2,000 professionals meet all needs, especially, as was previously said, the time-dependent pathologies, which are very important. Infarctions, strokes, sepsis, or traumas need an important specialization. As I said, later the MIR system has been added to integrating other professions, such as nursing — today we already have several specialties in nursing and they will continue to grow — but also others like biology, like pharmacy and so on. Of course, at this moment and after different vicissitudes, I don't think we should look for culprits. Castro Ten was not the director of Human Resources, but the secretary general, but since then ministers have passed, directors have passed... if there were any drawbacks and the rules of trunquality have stopped by accessories. Unfortunately, this took a long time to develop. Now we have to give all this final push and I think we're at the moment. Today this Parliament agrees to vote that if you want to homogenise the assistance of pathologies, especially those of dependent times, you also want to develop innovation within emergencies with new applications, such as Sigur; or that you also want to create this specialty to complete more and more of the day-to-day very complex assistance. Of course, we also vote for the stabilization of the Emergency Service templates. For that, the elimination of the replenishment rate, which I think we're asking for all the groups here. Today we also vote for boosting teaching and research; for allowing the free movement of professionals in the Schengen area, or for promoting scientific meetings of specialities. In this case, next year — by the year 2021 — there will be the National Congress of Semes in Vigo, which had to be postponed. We also voted for the possibility of adapting to new challenges: chronic and fragile patients, male violence, acute psychiatric pathology and other criteria. With this initiative, the Galician People's Party and Parliament as a whole want to thank all professionals of all categories for their continuing work in emergency services for so many years and with only one end, which is to improve Greek health. I would also like to thank in particular, on behalf of all the Greeks, the Spanish Society for Emergency Medicine — today with a broad representation — for the national president, Dr Vázquez Lima, but also for Dr Fandiño — today President Galego — to the Secretary-General of Semis Galicia, Dr Maza Vera, and to the vice-president, Ms Concepción Abellás Álvarez, as well as the national president — who has been to very little — Dr González Armengol, of the Madrid Community, for his complete and absolute dedication to the Greek citizenship. [[Shemes]] As I said at the outset, in my last speech in this Parliament, I would like first of all to thank my group for all that they have done here for all this time. I learned a lot even though, of course, I have a lot to learn. I would also like to thank the opposition groups for their collaboration at all times. The discussions we have with the health spokespersons are inside the logic, but always in the field of mutual respect. And I would like to thank the President of Parliament, the Bureau and the workers of this institution, who are at all times supporting us in carrying out a task of the most important, which is to be able to legislate so that the Greeks have a better quality of life. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u184	Thank you very much, Mr Vázquez Almuinho. We continue with the debate and with the next non-legislation proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u185	We moved on to the next non-law proposal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr José Manuel Rey Varela and eight other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the naval sector of Ferrol
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u186	This motion for a non-law amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block and by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u187	To formulate the non-law proposition, Mr. King Varela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u188	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, very late. Ferrol was born bound to the sea. His birth as a city is due to a decision by the state; a decision taken by his natural and strategic characteristics: a narrow, deep, easy to defend and close to the main Atlantic routes. This is how you create a shipyard to build ships and an arsenal to house them, and then you develop a city, the city of Ferrol, the departmental city. The first great challenge in the manufacture of ships was the simultaneous construction of the twelve Apostles in 1751, twelve ships in scale launched only in two years. So for almost three centuries, the city, the Navy and Navantia formed a single reality and united their destiny, forging the DNA of thousands of ferrolans from different generations. This proposal that we present to the plenary today does not deal with the past; too much has already been said, too argumentary of party. The success is there, and I don't think anyone's proud of it. It's not even about the present, although it's hard for us to subtract from it when in the last year 1,047 people have lost their jobs in the naval, and the prospects are even worse by March next year, because for the first time in a long time we will present totally empty grades. And that's what we've been experiencing difficult times: to use 15,000 people on the yards a little more than 2,000 right now! We need plans and immediate workload, so we all agree. But the state budgets have already found that the only new construction for the Navy will be in the south, and that the AOR, which we all demanded unanimously in Ferrol, does not appear in the state budget. The situation is so dramatic that, from our point of view, it doesn't admit that the trees let us see the forest. The naval needs to be built around a single strategic, solvent and possible project at this point in time to ensure the future of a city and a region. That's why we need everyone's sum, instead of discussing what separates us. It's what the Greeks and the Greeks that we represent and also the ferrolans expect. It's always said — and it's true — that people are the greatest value in protecting a community or a city. Today Ferrol has 66,000 inhabitants, the same as he had in 1950. We are the only city in Spain that has lost a third of its population in the last forty years. This is a real demographic crisis. We count on the highest rate of unemployment in Galicia, 17.9%, and the crisis in the naval sector now sums up the energy crisis, the decisions on Endesa, Alcoa and a long et cetera. From the industrial energy crisis we went to the crisis in the city itself. A recent study believes that in the center of it, in the Magdalena neighborhood, we have 313 empty commercial sites. Finally, after an economic crisis, a demographic crisis, an industrial crisis, comes the hardest, which is the social crisis. Unfortunately, Ferrol is also the city of Galicia with the highest rate of poverty, 24%. That is why he said that continuing to discuss a situation of industrial and social emergency instead of joining us in order to change the situation is to waste time, and above all to fail to the confidence of the people who deposit it in this Parliament. Just like saying that things are going well, that the frigates are already coming, it's an irresponsibility if we don't make reality the strategic project around what our future turns, not the future of the next ten years, but the future to be competitive in the coming decades; a project so that we can continue to do what we've always done, diversifying, yes, but also doing what we've always done, what we've always done is build ships; a project that our children don't have to leave the city that saw them born. We can discuss diversification, wind, new industrial plans and employment, skills... we'll probably have different views around these issues. We can discuss publicly, privately, civilianly, militaryly, Montoro, Montero... what we want, but without a project of dam and without a project of transformation of the Starry 4.0, Ferrol will have no future. That project and its financing — in Ferrol no one doubt — corresponds to the owner of the shipyards, which is the State. This is how the Starship 4.0 project was born: it was born as it was born in the most important shipyards in the world. In Ferrol was born from the hand of magnificent industrial engineers trained in our university schools and Navantia, who emulated what Jorge Juan did three centuries ago by the Marquis of the Ensenada: to visit the most modern shipyards in the world to copy many of his constructive techniques. This was also done in the 19th century with the great transformation of steel and steam ships, with the incorporation of machinery or dry construction, in which Navantia — its precedent — was a genuine advance of a world character. And so it was also done, for the last time, in the early 19th century after the Ferrandiz Law, with a project -- you have to say -- identical to what is being said right now, a reform of the yard and new curated to the Navy. A century later we need a new technological leap, not for ten years, but for the next 100 years. In our history, we're seeing how every 100 years we have to do a great project to transform the yards, and in Ferrol we've grown up with this over the last few years. As a century ago, it includes the modernization of the most important fleet units by the hand of the F-110 frigates. One data: with the start of the Starry 4.0 we will save 36 million euros for each frigate, allowing the necessary investment of 400 million euros for this project to get a return from its investment to the ten years of the start. We don't want to forget that even if a yard is public, it has to be competitive to stay on the market, and in this Starry 4.0 transformation project three key investments appear: the dry dike covered 360 by 65 meters — about what rotates the entire project — the sublocus workshop and the expansion of three new springes of 273, 200 and 350 meters. This project received technical financial support from the Galician Union through two joint research units in which, in addition to the Union and Navantia, participated at the University of Coruña. They worked on lines of work, optimizing design and construction processes, increasing the degree of optimization and robotization, and improving coordination with the auxiliary industry. The project was completed in 2018, after eight technical reviews under the Navantia presidency of ferrolán Esteban Vilasánchez, and many people participated in dozens of technical meetings with the General Environmental Assessment Directorate and the territorial Institute of Studies. I'm going to be able to point out the importance of this project for the city, because it also has a direct return to an old yearning for all the railways, which is to open the city at sea, since the project of transformation of the yard also allows to release a part of our maritime facade. The truth is, everything was frozen with the change in the Spanish Government. Esteban Vilasanchez has died and has been named an Andalusian agronomist. And as on so many occasions in our history, Navantia's Strategic Plan once again looks south. The project promoter, Navantia, Sepi and the state, with the new Government, what they were doing was to be dizzy about who the noun organ was; that is, with whom the project was working with. They ended up passing it to the Ferrol Port, but the reality is that two years later they didn't even deposit the avalanche to begin the processing. This is the reality. Two years later, the environmental impact study is about to finish, and in the meantime, the Ferrol naval smolders and the city is in a real state of social, economic and labor emergency. That is why this proposal, so that with a firm voice the Galician Parliament urges the Galician Council to call on the Government of the State to submit the projects, licences and authorizations, as well as the financing of the 4.0 Starring, especially as regards the covered dry dam. For its approval we call for the support of the political groups of the Galician Parliament. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u189	Thank you very much, Mr. King Varela. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Seco García has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u190	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation in the naval sector is complicated, and much more so in these times of cowardice. The fall in demand for maritime transport and goods and transit is having negative effects on civil naval procurement and repair this year, while in the naval defence market the budgetary and fiscal difficulties and effects, although they have not been fully reflected in this exercise, significant falls are already seen in all geographic areas of the naval, military and civilian recruitment sum; 42% in China, 71% in Japan, 55% in Korea and a 97% drop in recruitment in Europe. The impact is also on the collaborative industry and on the equipment suppliers, who had to reduce or stop their production, and in addition to implementing rigorous safety and health measures during coronavirus co-operation. Another significant impact was on shipowners, in particular on cruise operators, due to the intense fall of tourism passengers, which caused delays in orders and the total fall in demand on shipyards in Europe. The forecasts indicate that the overall impact of the crisis on the maritime industry will be more intense from 2021 because of the lack of orders and the lack of workload. In the defence sector, although it is unknown to what extent the international market will be affected, the following effects are seen: a replanning of military naval programmes provided for by budgetary adjustments, a fall in the export market in Middle East countries motivated by the collapse of oil prices and a global tendency to protect and develop each country's respective industrial bases, with the aim of ensuring sovereignty in the supply chain. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, this is the overview of the naval sector in general, and these are the difficulties that Navantia has faced since March 2019, but since you keep filling it continuously, even if it is not in the intervention, if it is in writing, blaming the current government for all the evils, I ask you, what was the situation they left in Navantia in 2018? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the company was in technical breach, immersed in the matter of dissolution, according to the Capital Corporations Act, and therefore in an extraordinarily difficult situation caused by the incapacity, incompetence and lack of conviction in industrial matters of the seven years of government of its party and the failure of bet by Navantia throughout that time. In December 2018, to deal with the breakdown you left, you signed the 2018-2022 Strategic Plan, with the agreement of the workers' representatives and with the aim of achieving the company's viability, maintaining activity in all centres, modernizing the installation processes with the digital transformation lever, relegating the template and adapting it to the needs of the market. Of course, in that plan, the construction of a dry dam was not collected, nor was it something that the People's Party had unleashed in the seven years of government, which, in the matter of the naval, we already know all the Greeks how they work: when they don't govern, they dedicate themselves to claiming and promising to do nothing of the promised. Where's Feijóo's promise of those succulent Pemex contracts and the construction of tens of ships for the Mexican company, accompanied by managers who are then charged with corruption? Or the famous floating dike that was going to build in Ferrol? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, everything smokes. Result: technical breakdown and lack of workload and modernisation of the yard. We share with the workers the need to strengthen the company's competitiveness with the construction of a dry dam that complements the modernization actions that will take place at the yard. From the Party of Socialists of Galicia we have already passed it to the new leadership of Navantia with an investment that guarantees an increase in productivity and an economic return that could guarantee an infrastructure of this silence. We understand that funding could be sought from European funds, as long as it is examined legally so that they can be used for this purpose. But if the People's Party has made it clear — I hope it will be clearer than what it had with the ridiculous thing they did with the floating dam — why the President of the Board, when he exposed the seven tractor projects and transversal plans to go to European reconstruction funds, did he not announce anything at all linked to the Greek shipyards? Why when did you later report that you had 108 projects there was no news that the German Government introduced anything at all on the Ferrol yard? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, they're trying to convince the Galician society that the state government punishes the railway yard, and then from the German Government they don't announce any projects for this yard within the 108 that they present in Madrid. You speak a lot of delay and lack of workload until the beginning of the construction of the F-110 frigates; you speak a lot, but you haven't just told the citizens of Ferrol that it is due to that delay and why from the Government they were unable to develop the project; until the arrival of the Socialist Government that, under the direction of Margarita Robles, has signed contracts that will involve an investment of more than four billion euros to Ferrol, guaranteeing ten years of workload and the creation of 7,000 jobs for the county. Tell the citizenship what the interests of Minister Morenés, of the People's Party, were, and why he put the frigate project in a drawer for two years. Now that they say the People's Party is so worried about the lack of work load until the frigates start, they tell you why the People's Government was so interested in putting the ragats into the MBDA company's missiles, against the Navy's own criteria. And what was the company's relationship with the minister? [[Applause]] Thanks to the arrival of the current government and unlocking an essential investment for the citizenship of Ferrol, leaving behind the policies of those who always dominate their own interests. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you can add and try to reach your shoulder to make Navantia a yard in the future, as you said. They can collaborate from the Galician Union to give greater impetus to the Starship 4.0 project, as it is collected in the plan. They put more resources from our administration, they work from the public policies of the Galician Union to get the said yard to get a higher workload and new investments, or they can continue to profile, leaving the State Government alone, as they have done for months with Alcoa or as they currently do in Gamesa-Siemens. After twelve years of government at the Galician People's Party board and ruling 33 out of the 39 years of history of this autonomy, they could make an effort to comply with the Greek Statute, which says that the Greek Government has exclusive competence in industrial matters, developing some kind of project that does something more than criticize what they do or stop doing to others. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the district of Ferrol suffers without any kind of action from the Galician Union in twelve years of government, with 23,000 jobs less in the Galician sector, with industrial production index in Galicia which fell by 2.5 % in the past legislate and with industrial employment representing 7.1% in 2009 in Spain and which in 2019 was 6.6%. They were not able in twelve years to shape concrete actions in the production of legislation in industrial matters. The best example is the Galician Naval Sector Promotion Act, a rule with no real impact on the sector since its adoption. You in 2015 approved the Galician Competitiveness Agenda and Industry 4.0. The two main objectives of the agenda were, by 2020, the growth of the industrial sector to 20% of the German GDP and the creation of 50,000 jobs in the industry. Where are those targets left, gentlemen of the People's Party, now that it's going to end 2020? I'm no longer going to talk about the Igape and its underutilization with an execution of 160 million euros of the 306 they had for the triennium from 2016 to 2018. They can continue their propaganda policy in the media, it gives them good, but among so many successes in the unreal world in which Feijóo lives, they could do something to exercise their skills in industry, like putting a plan on the table for the implementation of the industry in Ferrolterra, because auxiliary companies should have alternatives to work in the area, and you are unable to capture any new industrial activity and let them die or relocate existing ones. They put on the table a training plan for workers in the sector's auxiliary industry in order to strengthen the competitiveness of the sector and a continuity in the activity of a highly skilled workforce. They develop a plan to capture industrial activities linked to the marine wind industry that may include other sectors that are strategic to the region, taking advantage of existing port facilities, communications and industrial soil. From the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia we have introduced, precisely, an amendment in that sense so that, in addition to putting on the central government's duties, which is very good, they do something more from the Council of Galicia that they are admiring themselves by looking at Madrid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u191	Thank you very much, Mr. Soto. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Fernández Alfonso speaks for the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u192	Good afternoon. The PP presents an initiative in which the Government of the State is required to present projects, licences and authorizations, as well as funding for the workshop and to say, to do so through European funds and to request the Commission of the European Union to consider the shipbuilding sector as a strategic one, which would allow for substantial aid lost. All right, I'm telling you honestly; we agree. The PSOE also agrees and submits an amendment to go further. Of course, they want several things to be asked of the Board as well. And so they start the day, some demand from the central government and some demand from the board government, playing ball with Galician problems. The PSOE calls on the Board to participate more actively in the development of the yard, which includes projects for the collection of European funds, to develop an industrial plan for the region in order to have greater diversification, to carry out a formative plan for workers in the auxiliary industry and to develop a plan for the capture of industrial activities linked to the marine wind industry. With regard to the funds to modernise the yard, the logic, being Navantia a public company of the dimensions and social and economic transcendence that it has, especially in Galicia, the logic — I said — would be that the Board of Directors of the company, as provided for in Article 55 of the Statute of Autonomy of Galicia. But that's not in the PP initiative or the PSOE amendment; they're not interested. They both agree to maintain the current status quo in the direction of Navantia. As logical as it would have been that board of directors -- where all stakeholders were represented -- what developed a consensual project, so that regardless of whom the initiative or impulse corresponds, there was an agreement already started on the project to modernize the yard that would guarantee after the corresponding procedures that the project would crystallize and finance would appear. And this, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, don't cheat on us, even though the Board includes it among its projects, the last word today is the Government of the State. Ask PSOE for an industrial plan for Ferrol County. It's gonna be hard to name him. Of the so many comarcial plans we have, you must have the sanctimonial of minimal plans. But ultimately, as the goal is always, looking for industrial diversification, they can use any of the previous names and add "Junior". Don't I know what they think? I'm going to apologize if they think I'm frivolous with these things, but we're already a lot in Ferrol, because the industrial plan that needs Ferrol's comarca is to put Navantia to work. [[Applause]] There is no real possibility of bringing anything to Ferrol, there is no company, there is no possibility of inventing anything that can replace or equip itself with shipbuilding: in volume of employment, in the diversity of activities that compete in the construction of a ship, at its technological level, in its potential exporter or in the multiplier effect of the price of the work in the commercial economy - four euros and a half per euro -. Diversification? The industrial diversification needed by Ferrol is that Turbines recovers the renewable energy market, taking advantage of this already driven energy paradigm shift, taking advantage of the marine wind contracts and taking advantage of its experience in the sector because it has already worked on the wind energy and the construction of biomass plants. The diversification is also that Carenas does not have to give up work because of lack of infrastructure. Recovering civil naval construction, recovering the activity of turbines and empowering Carenas; this is the only industrial diversification in the district of Ferrol that would not be mere rhetoric, because it counts starting with installations, knowledge, synergies and an international reputation; all of public property. What's missing? Lack of political will. And here you are with initiatives perfectly designed to put your fingers into each other's eyes, and more nothing, without real content, because the reality is this: industrial plan and diversification would put Navantia to work, and it's not done because they don't want to, because they have other plans for a Navantia in the Ferrol stream even smaller than we know today, yes, because while you're riding here the show of those who care most about Navantia, Navantia's management is taking steps to abandon the marine wind. They're negotiating a contract to provide monopiles to Iberdrola for five years in which Navantia's participation in the UTE with Windar goes from 70% to less than 10%. Navantia's participation is reduced to Windar's home. But they don't scandalize themselves, because this is coming. While the president of the board came to Fene to celebrate the milestones of the Navantia-Windar alliance, the IGC had already warned that when Navantia does not have its own staff in those projects, when Navantia refuses to control the subcontracting of companies in the part of the work that corresponded to its participation in the UTE, when Navantia renounces certain advisory, training or repair projects for its contracts is because it has no interest in the sector. So this isn't new, it comes from the previous direction, that of the PP; now it crystallizes. Just like renouncing turbines working in the renewable energy area is not new, but now it's just stopped being a division with its own direction within Navantia. Just at a time when the decarbonization of maritime mobility is key to making a gap in the sector, the turbine factory that could and should be the focus of a new area of activity with a strong technological and innovative print, loses gallons, resources and activity. To present an initiative to request licenses and authorizations and to include Navantia in projects for European funds is very good, really, we support it, but if they had real interest in the sector they would ask to be on the board of directors, to be where decisions are made; if they had real interest in the sector, they would be demanding to regain capabilities and activities, because this Navantia reduced version, restricted to military construction, is not economically and socially viable. The numbers are there for whoever wants to see them. Some are even in their own exhibition of reasons: demographic crisis, first in unemployment, etc. And this is precisely the result of the restrictions. Lord King Varela, the emptying of steps at Ferrol is not new, and for more than a year there have been no boats at the steps of Ferrol. Training for auxiliary industry personnel, says PSOE. It's also very good, we support it, but we'd better see that the auxiliary industry staff aged 61 and 30 could retire as well as those of the main industry. It can't be that the staff of assistants - who, from here on, send a fraternal greeting - systematically stay out of the social measures that are agreed upon for the staff of the principal. After a working life of instability, worse wages and worse working conditions, there are also classes when they lose their jobs, and that they always lose jobs because of some of the company's capacity reductions, which have always responded, in the history of Navantia, to political decisions. If governments, any of them, wanted to do something like that, they could do it. They map out the staff of the auxiliary industry, see that the staff has enough years of contributions to retire at 61, call a table with trade unions, employers in the sector, Navantia and SEPI and put a solution on the table for many people who are going to go through bad during these years, right at the end of their working life. With regard to the establishment of a technology centre in the shipbuilding industry in the Ferrol River, which we have seen demanding in all our initiatives, we are very clear that without research and innovation we are out of the market, in general in all sectors, but especially in a sector like this, with complex and high-value added construction processes, where we work with increasingly demanding technical and quality specifications and, of course, that competes in a fully globalized market. The Joint Navantia Research Unit and University is a first step, but it's not enough. Of course, Junta cannot presume to make a great economic effort with this research unit. The Galician Innovation Agency reaches EUR 750,000, the rest, up to 3 million, puts the Navantia itself - million and half - and the other university 750,000. Of the 50 people that the University reaches this research unit, 30 are personal from the research center of the university itself; that is, only 20 have contracts specifically to work in the research unit; a research unit that works on the basis of temporary agreements, the current one with a duration of four years 2018-2021, and that ends precisely now. scarce resources and structural instability; yes, with great results to the account of a researcher who in this country exceeds all expectations. Navantia and the Welsh naval sector need the Union to bet seriously on research and innovation, and this means consolidating research centres and units by providing them with long-term stability and resources. " Negotiations with the European Union Commission on the declaration of shipbuilding as a strategic sector", it is essential, but there are other things to talk to the European Union, apart from this declaration, that absolutely affect the recruitment of ships, such as, for example, the policy of subsidies to shipowners of the European Union who then hire ships outside the European Union. And there are also things to learn from Asian competitors, for example, how they organize their shipyards, within larger and more diversified industrial conglomerates, just the opposite of what you do with Navantia. The future of the shipbuilding in the Ferrol River is to take advantage of all the possibilities of the different centres that still exist today in Navantia Ría de Ferrol; all, without restrictions, in an integrated way. The county of Ferrol needs to regain capabilities, it needs to amend the current design of a constantly reduced company, and I insist, it's a public company...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u193	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u194	...depends solely on political will. I'm done, Mr. President. Since the BNG we have called for both PP and PSOE to break up in the spirit of that false conversion which condemns the county of Ferrol to live in a situation of permanent crisis. Once upon a time, give up that suicidal loyalty to those agreements...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u195	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u196	...and bet on the sector with all the consequences. Backends are basic, no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u197	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u198	This is the restructuring and reindustrialization plan that Ferrol needs:...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u200	...to break the limitations and put Navantia to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u201	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. King Varela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u202	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think we should come here to read any party arguments. We are faced with an emergency situation, the worst we've seen, and no one in Ferrol — and I invite them to tell me someone — doubt that the strategic project of Navantia and the naval for the next few years is the dry dam covered and the process of transforming the Starry 4.0. I agree with what the Member of the BNG said here. In Ferrol we're tired of hearing about industrial plans. He didn't give any names, I'm going to give some: ZID, ZUR... I remember when I was a kid and many of my classmates said they were going to go to Italy because they were going to set up that glass factory. That's what we're used to, and that's why some of us are sitting here, who we're from Ferrol, don't want things to be called otherwise. We clearly want a project to transform the yard, we don't want to be sold again wind industrialization plans, etc. Everything, welcome, but, of course, what we want is the project of transformation of the yard made in Ferrol and by ferrolan engineers. That's the aspiration of this motion, precisely so they won't fool us again with words, because what we need, in the face of this situation, is actually done. [[Applause]] And that's why our proposal is very concrete. We're talking about the 4th and 4th steel mill transformation project. Whoever wants to do other debates, we are totally legitimate, but they are not the object of this proposal. We greet them, surely we can share many of those who present, but for us it is essential, at this moment, this. I'm going to read them something they're saying in Ferrol the union representatives: "More than a thousand assistant workers have lost their jobs." "Back to the Naval: in March everything we have in production is over." "The naval shouts against the white year that goes with Ferrol." That's why Mr. Seco García, really, no one in Ferrol can share that a debate like this is a debate of permanent criticism; no one in Ferrol, I guarantee it. In the last municipal plenary we celebrated last Thursday in Ferrol, all political groups supported two motions, one from the People's Party and one from the BNG who asked for things very similar to those. That's why, Mr. Seco Garcia, I don't understand that you can reduce your intervention to talk about Morenés-- the usual, the usual. That the pandemic affected the naval sector? Mr. Seco, do you really think the pandemic, the copper-19, has something to do with the dam or has something to do with the AOR? The only thing that has to do with the AOR is that the workload was done in the south instead of being done in the north, as we ask in the Welsh House with the abstention of the PSOE, and in Ferrol all political groups. One very nice thing is voting in Ferrol one thing, voting here abstention and voting in Madrid than not. At least you'll understand those we're minimally coherent with. Why is this proposal born? I'll tell you, really, Mr. Seco, I'll tell you, because there was a meeting of Mr. Mato with Mr. Núñez Feijóo. You'll meet the meeting. I think Mr. Mato is from the Socialist Party. Well, I appreciate that there are socialists in Ferrol who support the Ferrol naval sector, because we have to be on the street and represent the people on the street. "Façao and Mato urge the construction of the dam for Navantia." "The mayor and president of the board" -- this is an official note from the Council of Ferrol, which I'm going to leave for if you don't have it -- they expressed the need to build the covered dike and that the yard diversifys its production." That's why this proposal is born, to follow up on those meetings. [[Mr. King Varela reads a press release.]] We're organized people. I'm going to say the following in Ferrol: "Angel Mato demands already the Navantia to push the project of covert saying: as mayor of Ferrol, I want to urge the public company Navantia to present the project of covert of the Ferrol yard; a project"—textual words— "mold, worked"—attend you— "from 2015 by a joint research unit"—referred to that of the Joint Unit; that does not put it—; "at the end of 2018 it was already for the eighth revision, and was about to be presented to SEPI for its execution." It's not finally done. Without saying, there's no yard. And I'm going to tell you the last one, an assessment by the mayor of Ferrol about the state's general budgets, which lacks more commitment to a match for the Navantia covered dike. He's not talking about these funds or plans, he's talking about a game. And he says he trusts -- finally, I also trust -- that it improves in parliamentary processing. So I think we have tabled a very concrete proposal that is compatible with many other initiatives. We want a lot of initiatives for the naval, but the BNG wants us to take this initiative -- which is equally shared -- to put their proposals for the naval, and we have a lot of them, but many of us will also understand that we don't share them. So we can't admit your amendment because it's not even an addition; it's a deletion of our text, changing it to the BNG text. And the same with regard to what the Socialist Party is proposing, because, I say, I only wish...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u203	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u204	...is that in this House we reproduce the unanimity that we have in Ferrol the representatives of the ferrolans to feel...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u205	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u206	...in these difficult moments the support of all the Greeks. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u207	Thank you, Mr. King Varela. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Julio Torrado Quintela and Da Marina Ortega Otero, on the action to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the volume of diagnosis and the assistance capacity of the services of oncology of the public health system of Galicia during the year 2020
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u208	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion not of law, Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u209	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. President. From our group we believe it is important to debate today, in addition to the issues we have dealt with on health, a more specific issue. It has to do with the ability of the system to meet or respond to the needs that are coming in this year 2020 — inevitable, historical and clearly marked by cowardice — but in non-covidous patients. Obviously, the management of the pandemic is tremendously complicated. The governments have had and have to deal with an unexpected situation; a situation of inherent difficulty and which also causes a number of problems and imbalances in the system, inevitable disappointments that, as time goes on, can be readjusted, but that cause some situations in which we are somewhat behind that we should. The pandemic caused a very serious problem in the health system. However, and in spite of all that said and that there was anyone who wanted to take advantage of the pandemic, Spain's National Health System worked reasonably well, despite the circumstances and everything that can be learned to improve and if needed to improve, reasonably well. The second wave shows that there are some structural problems in the system. It also shows — if we want to do another type of reading — that the part of the first wave, managed by the State, had results, and the second, managed by the autonomous communities, is having others — worse in some cases —. But it shows that governments don't have any magic veins, and therefore everything that happens within the system is understandable, understandable to a natural point, but understandable within a logic of system management and the difficulties that the managers of the different levels of care, the directors of the councils and the ministry have to face in this scenario. But here we bring up a question that seems worrying to us and that has to do with focusing on or meeting some reality. Oncology services in Galicia work well, especially at some points and especially at some types of treatments, because, like everything else, there will probably be very good professionals and others that are already tremendously excellent, but they generally work well. The services that have been done and that have been developed in recent years, improved in recent years also by counseling, work well. There are conflicting positions on this; it is not that of the Socialist Party, who believes that they work particularly well. And against those who can decide or defend that the nails or the evidence are done with some other kind of interest, we don't share it. They work well and we believe that this service is paradigmatic of good health. Best at some point. Which one? From our point of view — and we will move it here during a recent debate on CAR-T therapies in the field of oncology — there is an oncology problem identified by professionals and it has to do with the low or low level of oncology diagnosis this year 2020 over other years. It has to do with the low level of diagnosis. Not with which the treatments were not continued, which continued; not with which the necessary surgical interventions were not carried out, which were, of course, performed with the low level of diagnosis. I mean, we're taking more than another time to detect. What's the matter? The problem is that this inevitably results in a loss of care capacity, starting later, by getting into the problem when the situation is much more serious, because the temporary loss, of course, is going against the worsening of the disease and because, in addition, we are losing the ability to do what is really the most efficient within the oncoholic treatment, which is not prevention anymore but early detection. We're losing our ability to do this. It's nobody's fault. From our point of view, we believe that the system could have been more efficient. We believe that within the proper functioning of the system there is a needle, and that is that we are diagnosing later. And this causes, experts say — given the circumstances, there is still no specific data this year, because it hasn't finished yet, and because the collection is more complicated — that we can be talking about in the succession of time — we put two or three years, by the permanence and the evolution of diseases — of 10% or even 20% increase in cancer mortality this year. And in this -- in which no one can be responsible, because nobody wants to do things wrong, especially in certain specific areas -- we are what we bring here is an initiative that aims for three objectives. First, focus. We don't think you're working long enough from directions to focus on this. Professionals are alerting. Second, put data on the table. Why? Because in that last debate that we had about new oncoholic therapies, we put this here. I had the opportunity to move this idea here and it was denied. It made me deny the fact that we were having this problem. The People's Party considered this to be an attack on the system. It's not the global but their coordination or their leadership, because they haven't met enough of this. That's how we consider it. But we doubted the real capacity that we had to bring this debate here, assuming it wasn't true. And probably also that, as we usually say, we attack professionals, which obviously doesn't make any sense. We want to put the data on the table. There's data collection work in place; it's done by the collectives, the Spanish Medical Oncology Society, but we believe Galicia needs to have that data. What data? For knowing how much we are diagnosing, at what time of the disease and what variation there is with respect to other years, to evaluate the differential fact of the impact of the covid on the oncotoxic diagnosis. So first, it's to focus; second, to have the data; and third, to solve, if there's a problem. We think there's a problem. Because the information we have, the data that makes public or the positions that comment and transfer oncoholic professionals say that we obviously have a problem with this and that we are not paying enough attention to this issue. And, therefore, we believe that this is a problem. We are speaking, in the words of some professionals, of the poscovid pandemic, which deals with those diseases which are not being treated properly — or totally well — now with regard to how it was being done before, understanding the complexity of the situation. What do the experts tell us? Let the treatments continue. We were told — as you have recently pointed out — that even the number of deaths in oncotoxic patients — that a priori it was estimated that it could be much more serious in patients because of the relationship with the cod, being slightly higher in affected oncologic patients — is not a number — although all numbers are worrying — statistically so that we can be or feel that the concern increases; it is elevated but not so multiplied. Therefore, we are told by experts who are being able to control reality in this situation. But if they tell us that diagnoses decrease. So there's a conclusion, which is the loss of patient opportunities, the loss of opportunities. We're taking longer to diagnose, we're taking longer to treat. And so we're going to have a problem in two years, three years, or four years about this situation. We think our oncoholic treatment system is good. What we believe is that we need to focus on the system not only in dedicating ourselves to some of the things that we believe are indispensable, it goes up image and marketing, but in really putting reality. In the current health budgets — I know you're going to be presumed here in this rostrum, and it's okay, with the increase — you don't really raise the relative position in the budgets, but you're going to lower it in terms of health, too, in this matter. We will present budget amendments to increase diagnostic capacity. How? Through greater equipment, through improvements in the differentiation of covered and non-covid circuits and the staffing of larger numbers of professionals. Because we believe that in this space, where we were in a position never enough, but well advanced, we must not lose space. And so this is planning: we're diagnosing later. We're taking worse care of non-covided patients. And we're not in the first, the second, or the third month anymore. The system must assume it. And the professionals are doing it in front of the governments, and I'm speaking plural. Patients are in need of those professionals who are working in front of governments. But we need to take care, because it is no longer — as I said — the first or the second or the third month of pandemic. We'll be there for many months; we'll stay for a few months. I hope the situation gets better. Let's see that all the good news lies in a truly good reality. But until then, and also after, we have a problem that we have to solve. And, therefore, in this service, in this specialty that works well and had a very high level of performance, we can't let ourselves fall. And we cannot abandon the level of self-existence of the system, which now, as professionals move, we are abandoning. It's no longer so justified by the issue of pandemic, and we want to focus on this. You will see that the decisive part of the initiative is extremely easy to adopt. We are convinced that it will be approved. That we not only stay in literality, but that what we approve of — that is to obtain the data — will serve if the data tell us that we are not well away from triumphalisms and put the mechanisms to solve it. That is at the end of what I am sure that all — the seventy-five Members and the non-Governmental members — want to improve in this system. And that is why we are bringing this initiative that aims to focus and address a reality that has so far been denied in the last debate. And we think it's necessary not to deny it, because it's real and it's there, so we care about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u210	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Carreira Pazos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u211	Good afternoon. Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, Counselor. The coward came to put on the table multiple questions that, although we had already known and learned a long time ago, perhaps it is important that we review and focus on them. One of them is the importance of a system of care and care for quality dependents and elderly people, accessible and who have assumed an additional health asset for these people. We've talked about it before in this plenary session: their well-being, these people, socio-health homes or their homes are directly dependent on their health; and more importantly, it fits, in the middle of this pandemic. And we were all aware of this. But this virus gave birth to truly horrifying situations, such as that of some residence that has already been commented on in this plenary, where the elders were in a deplorable condition that almost rubbed the abandonment; or, for example, the need for a home support service with resources and real ability to operate. Other examples of these notorious evidence are the ones that bring Mr. Torado's initiative here. It's undeniable that the pandemic has brought with it a decrease in both cancer diagnoses and treatment. According to the European Society of Medical Oncology, the third part of the oncology treatments across Europe were interrupted. And the problem is, we're not just talking about cancer. We also speak of other pathologies that are diagnosed later, ranging from heart attack to stroke. To talk about diagnoses, the Spanish Society of Medical Oncology estimates a reduction of between 15% and 20% in new diagnoses. Delays, dating delays, discontinuation of treatments — as already noted — or paralysing scriptural programs come to create a new health emergency when the pandemic has not finished yet. And the delay in these severe pathologies brings together that many of them will not have effective treatment, assuming life-threatening consequences for patients and even the reduction of their vital hope. We know that there are stages of neoplastic disease in which patients can no longer have access to palliative treatments, or even, in many cases, not even to them. The gravity in this situation is that it is not restricted exclusively to the first blow of the pandemic, it is maintained today. And then we can't, or rather we shouldn't, throw the blame on him. We are in a situation where health centers are kept functioning with an eminently telephone care, where patients can only get an appointment to be called by their head doctor, by their nurse or by their dentist. We've been in this same situation for months. The only door that exists for patients to access the system — obviously outside the case of emergencies — is the phone calls, appointments, in addition, that must wait for waiting list. And I repeat what I've said another time since this same place: they're not timely cases, they're increasingly generalized situations that attack the base of primary care, against their proximity and accessibility. We have patients turning around on phone calls, when in a lot of cases they need physical exploration and we're wasting some time that can be vital. Sometimes the symptom that the patient doesn't give any importance or that comments about the past is a key sign to detect serious pathologies. The face-to-face conversation, the presenceal anamnesis is much richer; it leads to patients commenting on other things that concern them and which can be questioned by other factors, and also allows the optional staff to notice something as important at the communicative level as non-verbal language. And we're not just going to talk about pathologies anymore. We are talking about the importance of presence, for example, as a tool for detecting cases of macho violence that are taking place within the homes. It is urgent: primary care must be undefined by enabling presence consultations, allowing patients to access their health centers with a certain normality. Mr. Torrado commented that the scientific advances made in the field oncological in recent years have enabled these patients to have better life expectancy, that many of them can say that they have overcome the disease and that many others carry it with them in a chronic way. Treatments are better, with fewer side effects, and diagnostic techniques have also improved. We are increasingly able to detect smaller and more incipient tumors. But all of this is suspended when the entry door to the system is running at half gas, when the presence consultations are much smaller. True, there is a system of referral to hospital care when a neoplastic process is suspected; quick pathways that allow prompt consultations to minimize these waiting times. They are of great help when the situation of patients is highly suspicious, but they stop being so when the signs are not so clear. By its very definition of what a quick track is, the inclusion criteria on this channel are too restrictive to prevent it from collapsing. But it's just that this leaves us out a large number of patients who, even though they don't fully fit these criteria, can just guess that something isn't right. What about these patients? That's where they start the dance again; that they're lost between consultations, between phone calls and presence appointments that take a long time to become effective. And we're wasting a lot of time that patients really don't have. Hospital services — and among them oncology — must be strengthened with sufficient staff to meet their demands. We can't be wasting time on waiting lists; lists on which statistics only appear the delay time in the first query, but it would also be important to value the waiting time in the second and next, the delay time for additional tests and the time for the result queries. Because the picture of the beautiful numbers looks very good, but it hides a whole reality behind which there may be three, four or five months waiting because there are no holes previously enabled, or in which the patients — and I quote textually — are told: "Call there in early December, to see if opening the Christmas holiday schedule appears some gap to see before." Clearly, the coward brought with him many problems because of his own pathology and the morbidity he causes. But the vault also helped raise a rug under which they had been sweeping the misery for years. We are going to support this initiative because it is vital to know the situation in which oncology services are located. The first step in solving a problem is knowing its magnitude. But — Mr Torrido was now calling at the end — we cannot be alone in this; we must go further. You know what the situation is. We can figure out what results will be based on what other parts of the world provide. And we know, in fact, that people are consulting less. It's essential to get ahead of this; we need to work on prevention and strengthen the early diagnosis. Covid can't assume the entire health has taken nine months to forced march. Primary care must be put into operation; hospital care waiting lists must be reduced. Control of chronic pathologies has to work again normally. Because what it can't be is that by avoiding the virus we have old epidemics already knocking on the door. Thank you very much and good afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u212	Thank you, Mrs. Carreira. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Party, you have the floor to Mrs. Amigo Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u213	Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you very much, President. I'll start by reminding you of the situation we're living in. On 13 March this year, in Galicia, on the agreement of the Council of the European Union, the health emergency situation in the territory of the Autonomous Community was declared by implementing the Territorial Emergency Plan of Galicia, which established transitional measures in the field of primary and hospital care aimed at protecting health professionals and aimed at strengthening the safety of fragile or more vulnerable patients. Since the Galician Health Service, measures have been taken to ensure that the epidemiological situation causes the least possible impact, with the aim of providing the highest degree of care to people with cancer. Therefore, it seems crucial to note that in Galicia no one oncological disease has ceased to be cared for and no oncology service has stopped working. And in order to meet this premise, Junta has carried out a continuous process of adaptation and reorganization of the health system, both in terms of its activity and in terms of material and human resources; and all in order to respond to the extraordinary care situation generated by the pandemic. Based on this, the Galego Health Service issued Instruction 6/2020 on the care reorganization motivated by the current situation of the covid-19 in Galicia, both in primary and hospital care centres and in dependent entities and in concerted centres or with permission to use the Galego Health Service. And the second instruction — 6/2020 — states that "the programmed surgical activity may be suspended or postponed". But that instruction itself establishes an exception: surgical activity programmed may be suspended or postponed except for the pathologies collected in Decree 105/2017, so the system of guarantees of maximum waiting times, which, as you will know, are essentially oncological pathologies. And the same is true for non-emergency consultations, which can be replaced by modalities of non-existenceal care. And telephone attention — which, of course, will never replace the presence, but it is very useful on many occasions — even in the Reactivation Commission was very much appreciated by the representative of SOS Sanidad, Dr. Manuel Martín, who let us know that it is a very valued tool by him and that he has been using it for many years. Ladies and gentlemen, exceptional measures have been taken for an exceptional situation. Fortunately, in Galicia we have committed professionals, who have made an extraordinary effort to maintain to a large extent the activity of consultations with suspicion of oncological pathology — I am talking about the rapid pathways of cancer — as well as the surgery related to the pathologies collected in the Decree of Maximum Times Guarantees, which — I insist — are mostly also oncological. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, thanks to the Health Guarantees Act — of course, against which you voted against — it is possible to guarantee assistance in Galicia at the maximum times established for patients with oncology. It was a very useful tool during this pandemic. And activity data is indisputable. The different health areas have maintained the medium waiting times of the rapid pathways within the legally established standards; a system of rapid pathways to the oncological suspicions that it must be remembered that it was implemented by a Government of the People's Party in 2010, with the aim of maintaining the first consultation times specialized under fifteen days. And by the way, the people we work in health care know that after the first oncological consultation, both in the TACs and the biopsy, in the surgeries or in any complementary test, there's a nurse in charge who is agitating them, and no one expects. These targets have always been met, reducing to half. And the same thing happened during this pandemic. Cancer has always been a priority for the Health Council, and so it is reflected over the years. And there are the measures that have been taken and are being taken, always responding to the challenge that this pathology represents before, during and after this pandemic. And there's the data. If we look at the data from the Ministry of Health in June this year, it is clear that, even with the acute phase of the pandemic, Galicia is among the five autonomous communities with less time of surgical waiting and less waiting for consultations. As far as prevention is concerned, in fact during the pandemic, it was necessary to postpone the screening programs, as in the rest of the non-emergency activities. With regard to the Early Breast Cancer Detection Program, it was not paralysed until the study of all women who, as a result of positive results, needed to complete their mammographic study, but they were temporarily stopped calling the mammographic exploration of the shrimp after mid-March. And in order to ensure the quality standards of an application of this type, this script has resumed as soon as possible. And so on May 25th citations began again with an activity of between 50% and 70% of the usual mammograms to reach a similar activity before the pandemic on July 15th. This stop at the invitations of the two-month breast feeding program is an acceptable time based on the scientific evidence available to ensure the quality standards of the program. With regard to colorectal cancer, it stopped on March 14 but resumed again between May 11 and 18, depending on the health area, performing the pending colonoscopy. And as this work was completed, it began with the citations in primary care of those participants who proved positive before the closure of the activity. And on July 1st, all areas were already running in full performance. In both of them, in fact, to ensure the minimum risk of transmission of SARS-CoV-2, a protocol of own action was made in each hospital, passing an inquiry in which they had to leave their data, so as soon as possible, they resumed their delivery programs and we can say that at the moment all programs are back in motion. Finally, in most cases we are talking about cancer care programmes that have created this government: the rapid pathways, which allow rapid access to the study; the guarantee of maximum surgical waiting times; or the provision of colorectal cancer. This was possible thanks to the Health Insurance Act. Now we see that those who have opposed these measures come to ask us to make an assessment. And the assessment, Mr. Torrado, is that fortunately this law exists, fortunately there is a decree that develops it and fortunately acquires it. And all this is against you. Ladies and gentlemen, oncology services have not stopped working at any time during the pandemic, some even doing night shifts, like radiotherapy services. Your evaluation seems unnecessary, because we know that, thanks to rapid pathways and maximum times, there are mechanisms in the Galician Health Service that guarantee this agility in detection and treatment. And we know that we have a colorectal cancer screening program that didn't exist when we got to the government and that since last year has been operating throughout the autonomous community. Don't be doubted, Mr. Torrado. I hope that that management worse than you were referring to since the communities took command does not refer to our autonomous community. In Sergas, all necessary measures are taken to recover the participation lost by these months in the screening programmes and maintain the high participation rates as in previous years. And with regard to cancer diagnostic and intervention services, the guarantee systems that this government has put in place have allowed attention not to be resented. I'm glad you recognize that the system we have is good, that I also heard it. But, Mr. Torrado, you will agree with us that if anything has to be evaluated is your position on the system of guarantees of maximum times. Facts like these make it obvious that you've been wrong to oppose this measure, and it's time for them to recapitate and acknowledge your mistake; it's not like they said that in the Galician Health Service, patients with hepatitis C were not treated. I trust you don't intend to do the same with cancer patients. Justice has made it clear that when you embrace this kind of speech, it's not to protect patients, but rather rather to slander a government that does things well. [[Applause]] We are aware of everything the pandemic has brought, of the crisis we are experiencing, of the state of alarm, and we are also aware of the studies that different Spanish, European and many countries have published. But above all, we know that thanks to rapid pathways and maximum times there are mechanisms in Sergas that guarantee this agility in detection and treatment. And, as I said earlier, I have no doubt that Sergas will take all the necessary steps to recover that lost participation in the screening programs these months. We have to know, and we have to transmit to the population...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u214	Go finish, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u215	...—ending now—that health centres have always been open, that they are safe, that anyone with any kind of symptomatology has their head doctor, as always, waiting to be cared for, that they have to go without fear, that health centers are safe, that we have fast ways, that oncology services are working everywhere. And we, Mr. Torrado, are next to the Greeks, alongside the professionals, who count on our support and our infinite thanks for all that they have given and are giving during the pandemic. We will never thank them enough and, fortunately, we are part of a party — the People's Party — that has always taken action, that has always legislated and advanced events worrying about their people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u216	Thank you, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u217	...and protecting him in the best way possible. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u218	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Torrado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u219	Thank you, President. I recognize, Mr. Friend, that this is the most difficult intervention I will make in this parliament. It was impossible for me to imagine that you would argue against this initiative, impossible. We're asking for a report on the oncotoxic diagnostic data in Galicia for a year and you came out here to read me an electoral argumentary to tell us that we're mistreating or attacking the health system. [[Applause]] It's just that I hadn't thought anything about what I could argue if you were against this initiative, because it's inconceivable. We're asking for a report to find out if the data given by the oncology professionals is true. Why? Because we believe — as I said in my first speech — that the system, the oncoholic services in Galicia work well, very well, with correctness, that the pandemic has affected all the services of health systems and that it is understandable — they say, in the name of my group — that governments — and I said: everyone — have had an adjustment, and that we understand that reality has changed the priorities of the system by the coward, but we now have a problem. And we haven't said that we've said that before, or we've been alert... 15 days ago we've been debating this and we've mentioned it for the first time. It's just, if I hurry up, I also tell you that we're also guilty of not detecting this problem before, too! But it's just that, Mrs. Friend, oncology professionals are saying we diagnose less. What they're doing is calling. We only want... to see that we bring an initiative that I really think can be read again. I think again, we're not asking anyone for anything wrong. A report. And I said it in the intervention: the only thing we're asking is to focus on the subject, to focus on it. It's not a criticism of the government. But I can repeat it. You're the health counsellor, Mr. Health Counsellor, the oncological system in Galicia works well; you're doing it well, they've been doing it well for years. My friend, it's not all about going to war. It is not legitimate to vote against this and to argue, Mrs. Friend, that we are mistreating or speaking ill of oncology professionals. [[Applause]] It's just not possible. It's just that we're not... really, I have the conviction that someone didn't really read the whole initiative. I think I said it earlier, that we work well. You can vote against it, man! but, really, if it's just to tell the professionals: we're thinking about you, we understand what you're saying, we know that this system is good and that now there's an imbalance, and that you're pointing out that there's a problem that's going to be seen within equal time; they point out two years, three years, for the duration of the tests; you know perfectly well that these are estimated times in that service for statistical analysis. They're telling us that they can increase mortality rates. Not because surgical wait is reduced, I think I moved it. Oncoholic surgeries were not interrupted. Treatments were not discontinued. Simply — and it was the only point, repeat it several times — we are diagnosing less, because patients are going less to hospitals and even because they want to go less. They wanted to go less because they feel weaker, because they're afraid, as is normal. Because the patient-medical relationship is different when you have to be two meters away. It's different from telephone care for this kind of service. If we didn't say... I could say something; sure, sure, because sometimes it costs me not to deviate. But it wasn't an attack on anyone. It's just to focus, to say there's a problem. They can't argue with me that we're attacking the system, mistreating the professionals or speaking ill of them -- the oncology --. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I'm telling you on the personal plane, that I'm fond of you. You won't see me attack the oncology professionals. I'm telling you the truth. We're not talking about that. There's a problem: there are people who are diagnosed late in a disease that with an early diagnosis has a much higher success rate. It was doing well. There's a problem for the coward that it's nobody's fault and from here we have to be aware that we're now taking something else into this. Let's focus on this. That's what we're thinking. It's going to happen again. It's doing fine. Counselor, we're doing well. It's not all about going to war with this, Mrs. Friend. Really, I think... If it was my fault in the first intervention, I'm really sorry; I don't think so, but I'm sorry. But I would ask you again to vote in favour of this. Just, although you're going to do the same, for a symbolic matter, for a symbolic matter, please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u220	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and two other Members, on the demands to be made in relation to the development in Galicia of the Atlantic freight corridor
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u221	There is an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u222	To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Fernández Gómez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u223	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. We are presenting this initiative with the objective that this chamber be positioned unanimously — hopefully — on two central issues for our country. First of all, what strategy should Galicia have with regard to the European commodity infrastructure network, and also be able to define the design and layout of the network that best enables us to organize economic space in the service of the country's interests. We believe it's also important to be able to decide on those projects that must be priority in order to get that strategy forward. We're at the door of a new financial framework 2021-2027 and the central government seems to be unaware. This parliament believes that it must be positioned to demand the state's immediate development of the Atlantic corridor, understanding as projects the whole development of institutional frameworks where the Greek agents and the Government themselves can participate in decision-making, including investment planning and, of course, the investment needed to move it forward. Because the statements and agreements are worth a short while if there's no money or will. The European corridors are part of a redefinition of the geopolitical framework of enormous silence, which affects us and affects us as a country. That is why I think it is necessary to open this debate by complementing the immediate and urgent agenda with a contextualization of the underlying process in which we are immersed. As far as Galicia is concerned, there are three key dynamics that are determining and defining the geopolitical role of our country. The first of these is the implementation of this neoliberal project and its consequences in space terms. Since the 1980s there have been new patterns of inequality. On the one hand, there is a growing concentration and accumulation around large agglomerations and, on the other hand, the average cities lose more and more weight. That means a new spatial referral that especially affects our country, a polycentric, polynucleate country, with medium cities. Geographical inequalities are growing in the state as a whole, and ultimately a new division of work is producing. On the other hand, this neoliberal project and its consequences in space terms also involve re-articulation and transformation of scales. We have passed from the industrialization policies that sought a certain cohesion and internal state homogenization towards a model of large metropolises operating within an architectural economy model, where these large metropolises compete with each other on a global scale but are increasingly untiring from its contour. And the lesson we can learn from this process that's under way is that they're holding out better those areas that have either a large metropolis or they have regions that are made up of a set of large medium cities with a high level of cohesion. We have that mid-Polycentric city system, which we don't have is that necessary internal vertebration. We are also part of one of the major European regions, the Atlantic axis, but what we lack is internal vertebration. We also have the enormous geopolitical potential to be at the center of Atlantic communications, but we can't develop it either. Because this whole potential collides with the other two key dynamics that explain our role today, which are the geopolitical strategy of the European Union and the geopolitical strategy of the state, which conditions the concrete application of that neoliberal model in our territory. The second of these keys is therefore, as I said, the European Space Strategy. It was well-figured in this 1989 document with the title of European Megalopolis, drawn up by the French Agency DATAR, which distinguishes this space known as the "blue banana" — the central area that goes from London to Milan, the so-called hard core of the European Union —. [[Mrs. Fernández Gómez shows a document.]] And in that strategy it was determined that this great European metropolis, at risk of congestion, should launch the expansion and creation of peripheral colonies to increase wealth. Well, this is the basis of the European territorial model. I know there will be anyone who will tell me: no, but if another polycentric model was introduced in the official documents of the European Territorial Management Perspective. The reality is that this polycentric model was only actually applied to what is that blue banana space. That conception, that model I had before, is in fact the basis of what was then applied to the European corridors. [[Mrs. Fernández Gómez shows a document.]] This strategy adopted in 2013, with this polycentric model and a dense mesh of connections in the hard core, that European hard core, which allows that thick mesh, also allows to encourage regional dynamics and also to encourage dynamics of metropolitan specialization. However, the periphery, peripheral radial corridors have a very different articulated layout, articulated around corridors where the commodity flows of a limited number of ports are concentrated. This type of trace, in front of the mesh, has the weakness that limits the ability to create territorial cohesion dynamics on a regional scale. Well, considering that our ability to be more competitive depends on the greater vertebration of the medium cities in regional terms and on the articulation of the continuous Atlantic axis, the second lesson we can learn is that this type of model — the corridor model — is insufficient for our needs. We didn't need the model that was introduced in 2013, when it didn't even include us in the corridors, but we also find it insufficient to change the layout approved in 2019, with that branch that goes from the Greek ports to León. It's a step; it's an important step to connect to the network. But our medium-term objective must be to expand the network and bet on a continuous and cohesioned Atlantic axis, enabling the development of the potential of a region that adds up to the network six ports, from Ferrol to Sines, three of them of great silence. What we're considering is fundamental: moving from a purely radial model to the Meseta to a model combined with the coastal corridor. And this model of coastal corridor is nothing revolutionary. In fact, the coastal corridor model is the model of all peripheral spaces in Europe. They have it in Italy, they have it in Greece, they have it in Ireland... all those who were later known as PIC have coastal corridors, including the Portuguese facade, but the Spanish State doesn't. And here we come to the spatial strategy of the Spanish State. Because if all the states tried to encourage those enclaves who had competitive advantages and better conditions to capture resources, they tried to enhance, therefore, their ports and their internal connection, the anomaly was the proposal of the Spanish State for the Atlantic corridor. And here, as I say, is the third key dynamic, which is the geopolitical strategy of the state, increasingly radial. In this 2013 proposal there was a minimum version of this radial model, which was to connect only the ports of the entire state to Madrid, the port of Bilbao and the port of Alxeciras, the only Atlantic ports connected by the state. And they refused to connect a single port from Porto to Bilbao. And because of that decision we lost the opportunity to count on the European Union's 2014 to 2020 investment programme. This decision is a consequence of this geopolitical function that the State grants to the Atlantic corridor, which is reduced exclusively to that which Madrid operates as a node in the peninsula context. We are concerned that in practice this vision should continue to operate, because, despite the adoption by the European Parliament in 2019 of the La Coruña-Vigo-Ourense-Leon — in which it was agreed that it should be carried out through the existing sections that already belonged to the core network — the reality is that, after this, nothing has been done on the part of the Central Government. Therefore, the inclusion of this frame in the basic network must take into account that it requires, according to the European Regulation, to meet a whole range of requirements that are essential to form part of that network: issues that have to do with the electrification of the line, with the minimum load of the axis, with the speed, the length of the train, with the security system and the wide track... ultimately, the task is ingenious and we are concerned because, at the door of the new fund period of 2020-2027, nothing moves in the central government. With this initiative we want to demand precisely this, that the central government let the politics of arms fall. We want guarantees that in January 2021 projects will be presented for the development of this branch of the Atlantic corridor, because we hear the Central Government announce their commitment day and day also with the Mediterranean corridor, but on the contrary, absolute silence regarding the Atlantic corridor. We are concerned that in practice we are again free from funding, because there are clear symptoms that central government priorities are not the same for all sections of the state. If not, how do you explain that Adif has a technical office for the management of the Mediterranean corridor and that it does not even exist for the Atlantic? So we demand strategy and projects. The strategy, as I said, should be moving forward in the medium term to include new steps to enable us to articulate the Atlantic axis. And according to that strategy, I mean that the southern exit — as we have discussed recently — is a fundamental piece for which we can, of course, already count on European co-financing, as a cross-border framework. What are you waiting for, gentlemen of the Socialist Party? We need to start the previous information study and not go backwards with alternative studies. The immediate strategy is to advance in the elaboration by the Central Government of a master plan of the Atlantic railway corridor for that approved branch, where we also want Galicia to be able to intervene and decide. As you know, the Atlantic Axis body has just drawn up a study of the interventions that would require the infrastructure to adapt to the requirements of the European Union. The study figures this intervention in approximately EUR 4 billion. It's an initial approach. But it must be the central government who has been working since this proposal. It's not normal for the central government to have the slightest proposal and it has to be other bodies that have to take steps.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u224	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u225	Finally — I have already finished — it is necessary, as I say, also to bet on the intermodality of the corridor by prioritising rail connections to ports and logistics platforms. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSdEG, honestly, you left Galicia once more out of the budgets. You collaborate with this growing spatial inequality that is taking place within the context of the state. Let us hope that today, in this Parliament, in this House, we have a unique voice in which we demand that the Central Government no longer delay this, that we may request these European funds and that they act once and for all the Atlantic corridor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u226	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández Gómez. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u227	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Mrs. Fernández, we share the philosophy, the background, of this non-law proposition. We also liked it, I have to admit it, listen to some of the things he said. That's why we tabled an amendment that, with BNG self-correction, rather than substitution, is an addition and that's why we hope to reach that agreement, because I think it's an amendment that can complete it. And I also think it's important that we achieve unanimity, as you said. This is not the first time that we have achieved this in this Parliament, but we hope that it will not succeed today either. I already tell you that we, at any rate, are going to support the non-law proposition, even though we hope you will also accept that amendment of addition, that possible transaction of how it might be later. I believe that on this issue the position of the People's Party of Galicia and the Government that supports the Government of the Union — in the claim of this Atlantic corridor of the north-west as a priority and strategic infrastructure for Galicia — has no doubts and is unequivocal. We believe that it is essential to increase the competitiveness and logistic capacity of the entire northwestern peninsula, so we have claimed it and even defended it would say that many years and so also does, insistently, the Government of the Union to the Central Government. Look, we can dedicate ourselves to talking about the past. We will say that this was negotiated in 2009 — when Mr. José Blanco was a minister — even if he was later published in 2011. As it happens now: the change is already negotiated in 2018, in 2019 we were told that yes, but it will enter into force in 2023. We're going to try and at least consider it for the funds in 2021, as you said. But I don't think it's so much about talking about the past, but about the present and the future and what I think we all have to sue for. I am convinced, in addition, that the three groups of this House and the whole of Greek society demand it. Because I think we have more agreements than differences; so I hope we also achieve that unanimity. And I think that the demand not only for the Government of the Union, but also for the three autonomous communities of the northwestern — by the way — of different parties — was made public. Asturias, Castela-León and Galicia. They have reached that agreement because they understand that it is truly important and that we must all be involved if we want to achieve and achieve this objective. It will not be easy and it is also important — as you said, Mrs Fernández — because it is possible to fund from European funds, both the Connect Europe mechanism and the Reconstruction Fund. That is why I think it is important for us to make it clear that in that period 21-27 and also in the other special and structural funds and in the major programmes of Connecting Europe and Reconstruction, these works are for the northwest corridor, for this commodity corridor. By the way, it's a vision that I think in Galicia shares the whole society. I think it's shared by social agents, employers, trade unions, ports, and I think political groups too -- I think it's unanimous -- and so I think it's settled a few days ago. On 30 November to Junta, the Galician Economic and Social Council, and the Atlantic Axis agreed to set up an executive commission to strengthen, work together and join voices, and announced that they will also invite Fegamp to join. So, among all of us, we want to try not only to confirm this, but to show up these European funds for the financing of these works, which, as you said, are suddenly unknown. Some of these funds will decide, from an office in Moncloa, an adviser to the government presidency. These are political decisions and, of course, as you said, it seems that all trends are heading towards the Mediterranean and not towards the north-west. You were also talking about the importance of logistics. The Board has already announced the bidding of this Galician logistics strategy, which not only — as you have asked for — for the land management law — will collect and contemplate the state works, but also that it is about extending by capillary and making the entire autonomous community benefit from these large state infrastructures. Obviously, we don't have to wait for that strategy, I think. We all share — and if you have materialized in other votes — that two of the priority actions for Galicia are not only that southern exit of Vigo — to strengthen that Atlantic axis, that Atlantic connection with Portugal, but also that the railway connection with the port of Langosteira appears expressly, because we want — and that is why we make specific reference to Langosteira in the amendment — that it is clear that if it does not appear, it is not because this Member has not incorporated it into his amendment, but because the BNG has not accepted it — I hope now yes — because, of course, we have already shared with him that it is very important. We can't have a port like Langosteira without that train, because it's like having a sleeveless suit - let me compare it. We therefore want to extend these benefits to the whole community through this logistics strategy. They used to talk about whether we recovered, from the PP, what I think was called the "revival of nationalism of the 90" -- I think it was a voicer of the BNG -- It's not about that; it's not about bullying. It is a matter of speaking of aggravations which are evident and which are present in the general budgets of the state, and I believe that we understand them equally the three communities of the north-west. What we want is for European budgets and funds to collect the Mediterranean axis and the Atlantic north-west axis on an equal footing. And I say it for two things. First, because we don't ask for anything more than others. All we ask is that we be treated the same way the Mediterranean is treated. The only one! Not anymore, but no less. I don't think this is asking for much either. And the second thing we really want to say is that this House has this clear and it is unanimous in these demands, which it considers priority since budgets. Because, look, it's nice to talk about interests and things... but where one clearly portrays itself is in the state's general assumptions, and we just know that for the Mediterranean axis, even though they say they're going to treat it the same way, they put twice as much investment: almost 400 million for the Mediterranean axis in front of 198 or 190 for the Atlantic axis. By the way, let's not confuse. We are not talking about the Atlantic axis that we are asking for for Galicia, we are talking about what is called the Atlantic axis; of this structure that is Lisbon-Alexiciras-Madrid-Valladolid-Bilbao, not the north-west branch — we call it as we wish, the Atlantic branch — which is what we demand, and that is what we want it to appear in the state's general budgets. And it's not about twirling. Yesterday they talked -- I think it was -- about zumbar. It's already blown quite, I think, the BNG voicer. [[Laughter]] We share exactly that the general budgets of the State — and in addition to the budgets and European funds that will be decided in an office in the Moncloa — incorporate the train into Galicia; incorporate the improvements of these trains and complete the infrastructure of ports and logistics infrastructure throughout Galicia, because, frankly, that is to really portray yourself and not talk about things in general. Double in the Mediterranean, despite the fact that they say they're going to treat both axes the same way. I'm done, waiting for us to come to an agreement, hoping that they will accept this transaction agreement and that these requests will be incorporated. We sincerely believe that the treatment we are receiving from the northwest - they call it what they want - from the central government right now is discriminatory. We understand that they didn't want to fix it in the amendments, despite all the weight of that deputy who was going to fix everything and even though he was in that famous agreement known as "Ana and Adriana". In that famous agreement was the train's; but money, budgets, budget splits... beyond that picture, of that agreement, nothing, nothing at all. And, therefore, I say: we hope that this Parliament will once again reach a unanimous request; that it will come to that agreement and that we clearly show that the only thing we ask is the same thing as the Mediterranean axis. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u228	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Otero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u229	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. The truth is that the voices of the Galician Nationalist Block and the People's Party coincided in asking for commitments, asking for positions. It is true that they also coincided - recently it seems quite coincides, doesn't it? - in screwing the central government and forgetting about the cowardice, what he did - using certain words, which he used here today - the People's Party when he ruled in Madrid. [[Applause]] You're asking for commitments, and the best way to demonstrate commitments to the truth is by fact. For that is a further commitment from the Government of Pedro Sánchez to the renewal of our railway network: at today's Council of Ministers the Government authorized the renewal of the road to the Monforte de Lemos-Luco tranche and the construction of the new tunnel of Oural - today, at the Council of Ministers -. It's EUR 108 million, VAT not included, as much as bothering you, Mr. Balsairo. [[Applause]] These works are framed in the performances promoted by Adif to improve ourense-Monforte-Luco rail connection, with the aim of increasing its quality and reliability. Council of Ministers today! We agree with the group proposing the initiative in which it is necessary and priority to make a determined bet to give a boost to the northwest Atlantic corridor. And so this group in recent legislation has brought this House initiatives in this sense, as well as we support the initiatives put forward by the other groups. It has therefore been shown on a number of occasions, as has been said here, unanimously by this Parliament in defence of the Atlantic corridor. It's not going to be my group today, the PSdeG Parliamentary Group, which breaks this unanimity. I'm moving forward to support today's initiative of the Galician Nationalist Block to this House. But, of course, it is now that the PP urges the Central Government to make improvements in railway communications, when we saw how during Mr. Rajoy's years of government did not bet on this corridor. Now we're at a disadvantage with other corridors. The People's Parliamentary Group and the Council of Galicia then closed and did not strongly claim this corridor. Now it's all in a hurry and I want to do in two days what's not done in more than seven years. You see, the Government of Pedro Sánchez until October 2020 invested, through the Ministry of Development, 2,830 million in the three communities of the northwestern peninsula: Galicia, Asturias and Castile and León, however many you say that other actions are prioritized. But, look, discrimination is what the popular central government has done and has brought us into this situation. We therefore agree with the BNG that the projects of these Atlantic corridor infrastructures need to be prioritized so that they can also opt for European funds. Because, look, most of the investments planned in the north-west are for electrification, which highlights the delay of the railway network in the area. While—it's so much traveled by you to make the comparison—in the Mediterranean almost all the works are to introduce the international width and high speed, in the north-west there are still pending performances to definitely retire diesel locomotives. Therefore, in these general budgets of the State, parts are planned to continue the electrification of the Medina do Campo-Salamánca-Foentes de Oñoro plot, with a stretch of 123 kilometers with a single and unelectrified track. So they cannot circulate the electric locomotives that reach the Portuguese border in Vilar de Formoso, which hinders the commercial relations between northwestern Spain and Portugal. The Tui-Vigo electrification is also included in state budgets. Complete network electrification was one of the measures included in the plan proposed by the northwest. This central government is pushing projects to improve the commodity corridor that will unite Galicia with the heart of the European Union to choose and count — as I said before — with European funds, as can also be the adaptation project of the Vigo-Ourense line, the start at the departure of the corridor masset or the Monforte-Covas line. Thus, a punctualization: while in 2014 a Welshman — Mrs. Pastor — excluded Galicia from the Atlantic corridor, starting in June 2018, began to change things and began to enhance this Atlantic corridor. [[Applause]] Look, the truth is, the People's Parliamentary Group doesn't even know how the red face is set to present the amendment you tabled to the initiative of the Galician Nationalist Block, because they even put the theme of Monforte. But let's remember: dry port of Monforte. It goes ahead that we do coincide with the centrality of what you were talking about in your amendment; of Monforte as the logistic node of the northwest, the logistic node of transport of goods from and to the ports of Greek general interest. Which would imply that Monforte had a high-performance rail platform that would channel a large volume of goods. He was precisely a minister of Socialist Development, Mr. Blanco, who made a determined bet in Brussels to put Monforte on the map of the large railway infrastructure in 2010. But then Mariano Rajoy's government arrived and he seems to have forgotten Monforte. [[Murmurs.]] Data to shame the People's Party and the Galician Union. Year 2001: Mr. Aznar and Mr. Fraga announced in Monforte an infrastructure that today lacks adequate connections. [[Applause]] Year 2014: 13 years after the announcement is inaugurated. And I repeat, today, the dry port continues to be dry and empty, because, I repeat, it still has no connections, and the Galician Union continues to paralyze this dry port and its connections. Let's go for the fourth year of paralysis of this infrastructure, these accesses, because, look, the only thing they do -- and I thank you for being here now, the Counsellor -- is to set up an amount in the budget every year, but, as they don't execute anything, it goes to the next year. Year 2018: registered, EUR 750,000; executed, zero. Year 2019: registered, 750,000; executed, zero. Year 2020: recorded, EUR 750,000; executed zero. Do you know how much is planned for the 2021 budget? It's not very hard to take out the amount it's assigned. [[Applause]] Finally, we agree with the priority given to the infrastructures of the Atlantic corridor in Galicia so that they can also opt for these European funds. We also agreed with the need to improve connections with Portugal with the construction of the southern exit of Vigo. For the Government of Spain this southern exit is a priority, we have already talked about it, and in the general state budgets -- if you don't know, Counsellor -- for the year 2021 is going to be a game for it. At the beginning of the year, the study of alternatives to see the railway configuration of the southern exit with three objectives: unifying the transport of passengers around the Urzáiz station, improving the connectivity of the goods and ensuring the connection of the railway Atlantic axis with Portugal. One point: in the budgets of the Union, only EUR 200,000 is allocated for the impetus to the cross-border and logistical collaboration of the northern Galicia region of Portugal, which is crucial for the development of Galicia. So the central government wants to meet the real needs of the territories, and that's why it also prioritizes this corridor, but not everything is done in two days. And, to finish, we hope and hope that since the Galician Council and the Infrastructure Council will stop arguing about this infrastructure, which will stop seeking sterile confrontations, which will stop looking for confrontations, not only at the political level, but also among the technicians of the different administrations. That's all they're doing is delaying this fundamental infrastructure; in addition to showing little institutional loyalty by promoting wrong interpretations, this institutional loyalty that they call upon the central government so much. Let this confrontation and unite institutional support and private investors to make the performance more profitable, as the European demands. So we agree with BNG's request on his initiative and we're going to support it. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u230	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Fernández Gómez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u231	I'm very glad -- and I'm jealous -- that it seems that this unanimous position is going to emerge today from the Atlantic corridor, but it's also good to say that there's no need for you to break the brakes and rewrite the story, gentlemen of the People's Party. Mr. Prado said it was the Socialist Party's fault not to include it, when Pepe Blanco was betting more to leave the Atlantic corridor out. But the reality, too, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, is that you voted within the European Parliament in favour of that project that left out the Atlantic corridor. So, I think it's good that we put here today, actually, the present, that we seek agreement today, but neither one can go up to this rostrum and try to rewrite the story, because it wouldn't be fair. [[Applause]] And as I say, I am very glad that there is a unanimous position. In fact, we had already commented on the other day that the issue that allowed the development of the Mediterranean corridor at first was not the government's wager by the state by the Mediterranean corridor. In fact, there was also a boycott policy in the Mediterranean corridor at the beginning. What made the Mediterranean corridor today having the funding it has is the key position of the entire Mediterranean corridor at the Valencian level, and especially at the Catalan level That unit of action was the one that managed the Mediterranean corridor to receive the funds it has today. That's why we should learn that part and try to find forums where we work on that unit. And I also want to answer a question in that sense, which Mr. Prado also commented. He was talking about the Land Management Act, which could be an opportunity for us from Galicia to define the country's infrastructure model. We, from the Galego Nationalist Block, have included an amendment to the Land Management Act precisely aimed at the large infrastructure of this country — ports, airports, railways — to be decided in Galicia, so that it is the German Government itself who designs its infrastructure map, whether it is the State's competence or whether it is the Galician competition. That's what would allow us to define the plot as well. The question, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, is not whether Galicia is or not; it is also a question of which model and which plot. We can't go on with that radial model. That amendment that we tabled to the Land Management Act would allow us from Galicia to begin to decide what our infrastructure is and how we vertebrate it is. And this, which can sound very radical, is nothing radical; it is currently being applied in the Law on the Management of the Territory of Andalusia -- nothing that makes us think that it is very sovereign or, as I say, very revolutionary -- So it seems to me a great contradiction that, on the one hand, they are voting against this amendment to the Territorial Management Act that would allow us to have sovereignty and, on the other hand, that they are subscribed to a policy of "inducing the Central Government to". They don't want to take care of their responsibilities. They have the capacity to make decisions; they assume their responsibilities as well. And, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, I think it's time for fact. We play a lot; we're at the door of the new funding framework that begins in 2021. We're a month away and we don't even know what the plan for the Atlantic corridor is. There's absolutely nothing. They came up here also in that game that if the People's Party did the same thing as you do now when they were in the Moncloa, but look more to this side, they're better compared to this side, with what we say and we always vote the same for this country, because we'd better go. [[Mrs. Fernández Gómez waves with her hands pointing to one side of the hemisphere.]] Look more at this side! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] As I say, we play a lot within that funding framework. You can co-finance up to 60% of your shares. We play the future of this country... and I also want to say that this strategy that is currently underway... the Central Government is very much opposed to the reaction we are seeing on the part of the Portuguese Government, which is taking clear and unequivocal steps in that bet on weaving the Atlantic corridor. [[Murmurs.]] The Socialist Party said the Government of the State incorporates a departure for the study of alternatives of 200,000 euros for the southern exit of Vigo. I want to remind you that what is needed in an alternative study is a previous information study, which has an estimated cost of about a million and a half euros. So what you're planning won't serve to take steps. We have a date, 2030, and we have to make it in time. Therefore, stop dizzying and take steps towards this informative study. And with regard to the amendment of the People's Party — to finish — we are actually going to try to get into a transaction. It was practically the same as our initiative. All we have to do is to set up a Commissioner, who is actually in the spirit of this initiative and which we believe is explicitly collected on this initiative. As I say — to sum up — I believe that we have to deal with this monopoly which the State practices in decision-making and that it is having a bad effect on the country, at a time when it is transforming itself and redefining unequal space development both in the European context and in the state context...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u232	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u233	That is why we want this Parliament today to take a step forward to gain sovereignty, to define its own strategy and so that our country can intervene and decide on projects as fundamental as the Atlantic corridor from a truly Atlantic perspective, where the general interest, the efficiency of infrastructure and territorial cohesion comes first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u234	Thank you. Let's wait and see if they come to an agreement with the transaction. [[Pause.]] Is he? Can we? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u235	We then begin the votes of the non-law proposals. We started by voting those who were debated together on the issue of home help. We begin by voting on the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Marina Ortega Otero. It is accepted but as an addendum — as Mrs Ortega has now said — the amendment of the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block of Galicia. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Marina Ortega Otero and D. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the performances that must be carried out in Galician Union aimed at maintaining the assistance service in the extraordinary home and extending it until the pandemic caused by the covid-19 is controlled in our autonomous community. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u236	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Olalla Rodil Fernández. There are no amendments. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and two other Members, on the action to be taken by the German Government in order to modify the current regulations governing the home aid service, as well as the issues to be brought into it. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u237	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia, at the initiative of Mr José Alberto Pazos Couñago. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is not accepted and there is pending a transaction with the Galician Nationalist Block. I don't know if they've agreed. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yeah? If he doesn't... [[Assentment.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u238	Yes, president. This would be the transaction: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Council to request the Government of Spain to transfer to the Autonomous Community of Galicia the management of the minimum vital income created by Royal Decree Law 20/2020. And yet Parliament urges the Galician Union to push, as soon as possible, the necessary regulatory changes to ensure the complementarity of the risk with the minimum vital income to facilitate the transition to a single income."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u239	We voted for this transaction. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. José Alberto Pazos Couñago, on the demand by the Government of Greece to the Central Government of the transfer to the Autonomous Community of Galicia of the management of the minimum vital income created by Royal Decree Law 20/2020. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 56; abstentions, 14. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u240	Calm down, it could be worse, man! [[Applause]] We now vote for the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and the Galician Socialist Group. We vote. Vote of the GG's non-legislative proposal. P.P. Popular of Galicia, the Galego Nationalist Block and the Galician Socialists, on the demand that the Government of Galicia must make to the Central Government for the creation of the new emergency medicine speciality. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 70. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore adopted, not unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u241	Thank you on behalf of all those who were here today. They, doctors and emergency workers, are being thanked to all Members for what has just been approved here. Thank you in their name. We're still voting. Now the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela... [[Murmurs.]] I'm sorry. Let's go back. So we voted for the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia, at the initiative of Mr José Manuel Rey Varela. The amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group are not accepted, nor is that of the Galician Nationalist Block. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr José Manuel Rey Varela and eight other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the naval sector of Ferrol. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 70. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore adopted, not unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u242	We now vote for the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Julio Torrado Quintela. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Julio Torrado Quintela and Da Marina Ortega Otero, on the action to be taken by the Government of Galicia in relation to the volume of diagnoses and the assistance capacity of the services of oncology of the public health system of Galicia during the year 2020. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u243	And finally, we voted for the non-legislative proposal of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Fernández Gómez. I was pending a transaction. Do you have the transaction? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Lettres, do you have the transaction? Is it too long? I'll either read it or I'll read it. If it's not too long... This has several points. The transaction says: "Parliament urges the Government of the Union to call upon the Central Government to prioritize the infrastructure projects of the Atlantic corridor, as well as to improve connections with Portugal with the construction of the southern exit of Vigo." First point. Second point: "The substantive mobilization of the period 2021-2027, as well as of extraordinary European Union funds to promote the development of the Greek Atlantic corridor in conditions of equality with other corridors". Third point: "The attention to the intermodality of the corridor through the prioritization of railway connections with ports of the Atlantic facade and with the main logistics platforms, particularly with the execution of the railway connections of the port of Langosteira." [[The Crown]] This is the third point. Fourth: "The presentation of the Plan Director of the Atlantic Railway Corridor, the initial allocation in the State budgets and the request for European funds to connect Galicia..."—here says Galicia, but I read the normal— "...in the same conditions and within the same time frame as the other runners." [[Murmurs.]] This is the fourth point. [[Laughter]] And finally, "The immediate appointment, as has already been done for the Mediterranean corridor, from a government commissioner to the Atlantic corridor and thus be able to speed up and coordinate the presentation of projects likely to be financed by Europe." We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luis Bará Torres and two other Members, on the demands to be made in relation to the development in Galicia of the Atlantic freight corridor. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 70. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-12-09-DSPG015.u244	There's no more fears today. We'll stop the session until ten o'clock tomorrow. Good night.
