ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, so we do not proceed to its reading. No inassistances have been justified. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We went into the agenda with the first point. Debates and votes on the ceiling on non-financial expenditure of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the year 2021, as referred to in Article 12 of Law 2/2011 of 16 June 2011 on budgetary discipline and financial sustainability
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u2	All this was because the Council of Galicia, on 29 October 2020, agreed on the ceiling on non-financial expenditure of the general budgets of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the year 2021, which is set at EUR 11,664 million. In accordance with Article 12 of Law 2/2011 of 16 June, on budgetary discipline and financial sustainability, it was forwarded to this Chamber for approval, together with the report of the Financial and Fiscal Strategy, referred to in Article 12.1 of that Act. Before we proceed to the vote, the Government has a fifteen-minute round for its presentation. And then there will be a round for each of the parliamentary groups for a time of ten minutes. We therefore begin with the presentation by Mr. Valeriano Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u3	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, gentlemen. I am here today before Parliament to present the non-financial expenditure limit for the year 2021, which was recently adopted by the Council of the Council of Galicia in accordance with Article 12 of the Law on budgetary discipline and financial sustainability. One more year I want to put in value that the German Government has been pioneering in the adoption by law of this instrument, and this is already the tenth year in which it presents it to the House. In addition, with the aim of promoting maximum transparency of the legislation adopted a decade ago, it was not only that the Executive had to approve the spending ceiling, but that he had to submit it to the consideration of the Autonomic Parliament to request permission to this non-financial expenditure limit, which is what we are now dealing with. Ladies and gentlemen, firstly, I would like to explain why for the third consecutive year the expenditure ceiling comes to Parliament with a delay on the normal and usual budgetary cycle. A delay not attributable to the Greek Government, as I have now exposed. The Board of Directors had to approve this non-financial spending limit later than usual because the first data to be available for processing did not reach us until just a month ago. And we also received incomplete data, because the information as relevant as the salary of officials or European funds did not have it until the same week as we approved it on 29 October. In view of this scenario, from the Business Council and Public Administration, we want to accelerate work more than ever with a goal: to compensate for a delay of more than two months over a normal budget cycle. We have already commented that this year we understand that there could be some delay in communicating deliveries to the account and the public deficit schedule, but what is not reasonable is that since February the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council was not convened until October 5. In addition, this delay, which could be an exception this year, has become a habit of the current Central Government, which in both 2019 and 2020 as well as 2021 has always breached legal deadlines. In the face of this circumstance, since the Greek Government — I insist — we work with the greatest possible speed and accumulated experience to first approve the spending ceiling — twelve days ago — and, secondly, to be able to approve the budgets before the end of this month of November. We want to have the budgets of 2021 in force before, because it's being a fundamental tool for the fight against the pandemic. And we want next year to be also an instrument for the fight against the pandemic — which I was referring to a moment ago — but also of economic reactivation. And the second important question is that the spending ceiling we are debating today is the highest in the historical series, which we started a decade ago, because we are in an exceptional situation. What do we intend? Face with guarantees of the health pandemic, reactivate the economy and care for families and businesses that are suffering from the economic crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, we must take into account the context in which this expenditure ceiling is discussed and why it is an exceptional expenditure ceiling. And the reason is that after five years of strong growth and job creation, unfortunately, as of March this year, the pandemic abruptly trumped that good evolution. The first thing we did was an update on the macroeconomic framework by 2020, since — as I have just said — the pandemic has completely changed the stage. If we have always made prudent and realistic estimates, this is more relevant this time. According to our forecasts, the impact on the Greek economy of the Covid-19 will lead to a fall in GDP of 9.7% in real terms, which, if well is smaller than the Spanish average, will be very important. In terms of employment, the impact of the pandemic will lead to a fall in employment of 10.6%, measured at full-time equivalent jobs, with which the average rate of unemployment in this exercise is estimated to be 12.3%, also lower, significantly lower than in Spain as a whole. Once this year's macroeconomic framework is adapted to the pandemic situation, the next step in developing the non-financial expenditure ceiling for 2021 was also to carry out realistic macroeconomic framework estimates for the next year. In this sense, obviously, there is a high uncertainty about the evolution and intensity of the pandemic, which will undoubtedly impact on the speed of recovery of the economy. With this conditionant and with all caution, we believe that in 2021 Galicia could have a real GDP increase of 8%. This recovery will also increase full-time equivalent jobs by 7%, with the average unemployment rate estimated by 2021 at 12.9%. I explained below how we calculated the income. And the first thing I want to point out is that we have some resources that we can consider ordinary and others that we qualify as extraordinary. Starting with ordinary income, it is customary for those from the autonomic financing system to represent almost 80% of the total non-financial resources, but in this exceptional expenditure ceiling, on account of the extraordinary funds planned, it is only 67%. In 2021 total resources from the autonomous financing system will be EUR 7,949 million and will decrease by 1.6 % compared to this year 2020. As regards the ordinary finalist transfers of other administrations, they will remain at EUR 1,176.5 million. In particular, as far as European funds are concerned, we estimate a forecast that is very similar to this exercise, with a slight increase of 0.7%, up to EUR 629.2 million, and with which we close the budgeting of the ERDF and the European Social Fund under 2014-2020, which is currently in force. As for final government funding, it lowers its estimate at 1.6%, mainly by reducing income from employment end-users to 6.9% and by the expected fall of 9.1% in the International Compensation Fund, which remains at EUR 38.5 million. On the other hand, the non-financial own resources of the Autonomous Community, where we include taxes administered by the Union, own taxes, public prices and capital income, we estimate that their amount will be reduced by 7.6%. Logically, its evolution depends to a large extent on the main tax yields: the tax on documented heritage transmissions and legal acts, the tax on inheritances and donations and the tax on property, since these three taxes represent more than half of this departure. The decrease is mainly due to the anticipated evolution in the tax on capital transfers and documented legal acts, so that next year the rights expected to be recognised by that tax are reduced by 18.4% in relation to the current budget. But it must be borne in mind that this year's forecast is that the recognized rights are only 80% of the initial forecast, as a result, also obviously, of the paralysis that has suffered the economy for much of the year and that this tax is very tied to the economic cycle. In addition, ordinary resources for the next exercise will amount to EUR 9,864.2 million, after including what is called "national accounting adjustments", in this negative case, amounting to EUR 33 million. In addition, as I said at the outset, this spending ceiling is exceptional because it has extraordinary resources. And the government's political decision is to make the most of the possibilities that we have to achieve these extraordinary resources. On the one hand, we include Galicia's share of the extraordinary transfer of the State to the autonomous communities, of an overall amount of EUR 13,456 million, as announced by the Council of Ministers on October 6, and as corroborated by the 2021 budget plan sent to Brussels on October 15. In view of the lack of realisation by the Ministry of Finance of how the said resources will be distributed among the autonomous communities, our estimate is EUR 684.9 million as a result of applying 1.1% to GDP estimated for Galicia in 2021. And, on the other hand, we collect the REACT-EU resources, Aid to Recovery for Cohesion and the Territories of Europe, which are an initiative that pursues and expands measures to respond to the crisis and repair of it. The Kingdom of Spain has resources amounting to 12,400 million euros, of which 10,000 million will be distributed among the autonomous communities; 8,000 million in 2021 and 2,000 million in 2022, as agreed by the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council. From these extraordinary European funds we included a prudent forecast for Galicia of 430 million. With regard to the public deficit, as a result of the extraordinary situation this year, the Council of Ministers decided to suspend fiscal rules during the years 2020 and 2021, although reference rates have been established which we are going to follow in Galicia. Thus, we decided to use the public deficit of 1.1%, another 684.9 million euros, as much as possible at the reference rate targeted by the Central Government. And we made this decision after we have in practice completed fiscal consolidation and being the Community which has increased its indebtedness in the last decade. Precisely the responsible indebtedness carried out since 2009 puts Galicia in a better position for power now, which is necessary, increasing it. With this policy of obeisance, the Greeks avoid being indebted to EUR 5,654 million in the last decade. [[Applause]] And the result is that every Greek and Galician owes 2,095 euros less than the average of the rest of Spanish. In addition, thanks to the confidence that Galicia reaches investors, in 2019 we were one of the few autonomous communities that returned to the financial markets to take advantage of the conditions it offers, with abundant liquidity, high demand and historically low interest rates. At the end of 2019, in Galicia we even formalized the first debt issue with negative profitability in the history of autonomy. And a few weeks ago, we just confirmed the second one. In addition, this year 2020 we also formalise a release of sustainable bonds, which are entirely targeted at social and environmental investments. The result is that Galicia is in a better position than other public administrations to deal with the health, economic and social crisis linked to the pandemic. With these revenues, by next year we will have a spending limit of 11,664 million euros. And from this amount, 9,864.2 million will be income that we can consider ordinary. And almost EUR 8 billion that we can call extraordinary because of this exceptional situation that we have to face. With these forecasts, we face an exceptional, prudent and rigorous expenditure ceiling for 2021. A non-financial expenditure ceiling, which, as I say, amounts to EUR 11,664 million, means a 14.9 % increase in the budget this year. It's the biggest expenditure ceiling since this instrument exists in Galicia, implanted a decade ago, but — I repeat — we are in an exceptional situation. Of the 11,664 million, 11,012 million are non-financial revenues, 685 million come from the deficit target and 33 million are negative adjustments in national accounts. This 14.9 % increase in the non-financial expenditure ceiling for the next exercise will allow...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u4	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u5	...that we increase the spending capacity in a total of 1,516 million euros. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on all parliamentary groups to support this extraordinary expenditure ceiling, because I understand that it is the financial framework necessary to deal with the exceptional moment we are living in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u6	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Round of parliamentary groups. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Counsellor, today we cannot have a debate on the budgets of the Autonomous Community for 2021 as the debate we had during the previous years. They cannot continue with policies of austerity and restraint of public spending. They can't continue to be the most applied student to match accounts rather than attend to people, as happened to the management of the 2008 Galician Crisis Board. Mr Counsellor, seven months after the World Health Organization's statement on the pandemic caused by cowardly 19 we are facing a global health crisis that has been matched by an unprecedented economic crisis and social crisis. A situation which has made the great eyves manifest — often demanded by our parliamentary group in this chamber — of the policies of the Feijóo governments in the Galician Union. It was eleven years ago that Galicia faced the worst situation from a demographic point of view. Eleven years of health cuts, mainly in primary care. Eleven years of cuts in education, mainly in the modernization of the education system. Eleven years without responding to the demands made by the representatives of the sector and even by the Board of Auditors itself on deficiencies in the management of senior residences. Years in which employment was not a priority for this government, losing a very important part of our country's active population and not regaining the job that was there before 2008. Eleven years without industrial policy, no real bet on R+D+I investment. Eleven years in which the technological deployment was continuously postponed, in which the rural was forgotten by these governments. Government of the PP that looked to the other side of the data of poverty or social exclusion in which there was no less than 24.3% of the population of Greece in 2019, that is, 655,000 people, Counsellor. Governments that have done nothing to prevent in 2019 7.9 % of the population of Galicia from living on incomes less than 500 euros a month. [[Applause]] Therefore, Galicia that we had before the cowardly crisis was already a country with many inequalities and lack of opportunity. You were talking a moment ago about debt, but I would like to remind you, Counselor, that the indebtedness of our country multiplied by three in respect of the indebtedness that our country had in 2008. So, Counsellor — I insist — the budget debate for 2021 which begins today with the approval of the expenditure ceiling must be different. Today we rise to the bitter news that in Galicia we have already surpassed the thousands of people killed by the coward, 1,009 people killed in our country, with more than worrying hospital pressure and an occupation in the ICUs that raise all the alarms. We also have to say that we have good news, at least hopeful, of that Pfizer lab vaccine, which we hope as soon as possible to be a reality in our country as soon as possible. Counselor, if we used to regard health as the most precious good, today more than ever we can say that everything else is healthy is secondary. Without fighting the pandemic, we're not going to regain our economy. And public administrations today more than ever have to build confidence in the population at these times of uncertainty and put all means at their disposal so that the sectors and people most affected by this crisis are not left behind. You know perfectly well that the whole economy is feeling sorry, but there are certain sectors that are the worst going on: hospitality, culture, nightlife and trade, among others. And right now, it should be an opportunity to demonstrate to the citizen that politics is useful and that his main mission is to respond to the needs of the population. That's why, Counsellor, I insist that this cannot be a debate like the previous ones and that the accounts of the Autonomous Community of Greece by 2021 must care for people. Politics has an obligation to help this country not to sink. And you as public managers have an obligation to use resources differently from what they did during the 2008 crisis. Counsellor, we have a unique opportunity that we must not, cannot let go, we must take advantage of all the potential that the Government of the State places at the disposal of the autonomous communities, the full potential of the European Extraordinary Fund for Recovery and Resilience. But also the Galician Union has to increase its own expansive power so that we can all get out and out of this crisis without anyone remaining behind. It is time to lay the foundations of the shift from the productive model to a more coherent, greener and more feminist country; to bet on an economy of knowledge that prioritizes education, training and research; to strengthen the state of well-being and to ensure constant support for families, workers, self-employed people and businesses; and to channel European funds to move forward towards a more value-added, more digital and energy-based economy. By the way, we hope to know soon what are those hundred eight projects that the Galician Union says it has sent to the state and that we hope they will go in this direction. [[Applause]] In October, the Government of the State informed the autonomous communities in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council of the suspension of fiscal rules by 2020 and 2021; an extraordinary measure following the recommendations of the Community authorities and providing the autonomous communities with the necessary margin to cooperate with the economic and social reconstruction resulting from the health crisis of the Covid-19. In that same council, the Minister of Handicraft transferred to the advisors that the Ministry of Business will shield the resources of the autonomic financing system in the face of the fall of the revenues derived from the covid-19. Delivery to the account for 2021 will be practically the same as for 2020, with a decrease of 0.26%. And autonomous communities will receive for the positive settlement of the year 2019 an amount of less than that received by the liquidation of 2018, but these differences will be compensated with a higher margin in the public deficit, with a reference rate of 2021 of 2.2% of GDP, which the Government of Pedro Sánchez undertakes to finance through extraordinary liquidity mechanisms, thus allowing autonomous communities to contain more resources. In addition to revenue from the financing system, the minister also informed the autonomous communities that they will have EUR 12,436 million from the RACT-EU Fund. On the basis of that data, the Board of Trustees, on 29 October 2020, approved the extraordinary non-financial expenditure ceiling for 2021, which, as you well said, reached 11,664 million euros. A ceiling which increases by 14.9 % compared to 2020 and which assumes that the Galician Union will have an additional EUR 1,515 million, of which 50% will be assumed directly by the State Administration through this extraordinary transfer. You were talking about your intervention of a fall in GDP by 2021, which is going to be smaller than for the state as a whole. Obviously, even the report of the Galician Economic Forum and other studies say it will be so, that Galicia has a smaller fall. But you also warn the Galician Economic Forum that although the fall is smaller, the post-crisis recovery has been in Galicia ever so much slower than in the Spanish economy. So we ask the Galician Union, the Autonomous Community, to use all the resources at its disposal to make this exit as soon as possible and to be without anyone remaining behind. I know I don't have much time left, but I want to make a statement. It's because the Galician Union is refusing to exercise its highest fiscal capacity. Therefore, the Galician Union renounces applying its expanding power so that these budgets are greater and therefore can care more for people.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u8	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u9	You were talking about a 7.7% reduction by 2021. And I'm just going to put an example: recover, leave that down on the government's heritage, Feijóo, which has affected only 7,132 people, with an average net quota of ten thousand euros, and which assumes that Galician House Farmyards stop receiving about twelve million euros.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u10	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u11	As I have no time for more, I can't go on, but I also anticipate our vote against it because of the failure to expand the own resources that the Galician Union has. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u13	Good morning to all and to all. Counsellor, José Luis Sampedro said there are two types of economists: those who work to make the rich richer and those who work to make the poor less poor. So far, the Government of the People's Party in Galicia has acted like the first. Before the pandemic, Galicia already had data that were really worrying. Now we have an economic crisis that has become much deeper and we have a health crisis. But our country already had very important problems. In fact, we had and we have a demographic crisis that gets more and more acute; we already had a social crisis. You see, in 2019 we couldn't get to the job ten years ago. During the past decade in which the People's Party ruled, they had to emigrate to our country more than 22,000 people. This is like the cities of Santiago and Ourense disappeared. There's more and more precarious jobs. In fact, the world of work has deteriorated so much that today's job is not synonymous with a decent working life, on the contrary, because you have created with these labor reforms — which we hope will be repealed as soon as possible — a new form of workers, who are the workers and the poor workers. According to the Foesa report, in Galicia, 12.3% of the people who work find themselves in social exclusion, we're talking about 130,000 people. And that's the tip of the iceberg, because the National Institute of Statistics itself warned that there are more than half a million people living at risk of poverty in our country. So his precovid policies were already provoking a Galician more and more inequalities. And there's an indicator that's very important when you see these inequalities, that of how the incomes of work evolve against the incomes of capital. And here we see how in 2009, the wages of workers and workers amounted to 48% of GDP compared to the income of capital, which was 43.8%. In this decade, with its policies, there has been a change that -- look! -- does not happen in the Spanish state as a whole, but does happen in Galicia, and we see that wages are less weight than the incomes of the capital. Thus, the weight of salary income fell to 42.7%, while the income of businessmen rose to 47.3% by the end of 2019. And this is the result of policies that have consequences, which is to make the rich richer. And this, of course, has consequences right now, where the coward accelerated all this social process that we were already seeing. And let's see how the lack of anticipation and foresight of the German Government is not causing it not to be given a proper response when controlling the expansion of the virus, but we also see how it is deprotecting the sectors that were already most vulnerable in this crisis. And those consequences can be compensated for in images that are really worrying. Last week we saw media that showed a photo, that I see, Counselor, that you don't want to look at. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo shows a photograph.]] It's people queued in Galicia in 2020 to have access to food and necessities. And the headline reads, "Tristiness and resignation in the queues of the Coruña hunger, increasingly extensive. [[Applause]] This is, of course, a despondent image. And the question is whether this spending ceiling they are presenting today in Parliament is the solution for these people, whether it is the solution to the biggest health, economic and social crisis that has been going through the country in recent decades. And we don't like the answer, but we have to tell people the truth. There's not going to be a response to the challenge we have right now, because you can't put a corse to the public investment needed when people's life and health are at stake and when the future of the country is at stake. [[Applause]] And what we say is that we need to invest more and invest well. And invest more and invest well to rescue public health and equip it with more means, ending with precariousness. Invest more and invest well to guarantee the right to a worthy old age; never more business with the right to a worthy old age! Invest more and invest well to strengthen public education. [[Applause]] Investing more and investing well to rescue those who are currently paying for this economic and social crisis, which are women, young people, which is hospitality, which is the culture sector, which is the small and medium-sized company in this country, who are the ones to rescue, and not the large multinationals or the companies of Ibex 35. [[Applause]] Because, look, the coward leaves many lessons and, among them, the lies of neoliberal and centralist dogmas. And today, for example, nobody argues that austerity — which has embraced Feijóo since 2008 — is a suicide in health, social and economic terms. No one also argues that we need to strengthen public health, not privatize it, as you have done. Or we're also seeing in the context of this crisis that we have little left behind the self-government we have and that we need more decision-making ability to better protect our society. That's why we say we have to go much further. And, really, it's just a short time since 2020 and 2021 tax rules are suspended and more public spending is allowed if from that date the zero deficit is again imposed, which is what the Banco de España is already telling us what it is going to do, because that simply means deferring cuts to the year 2022 and that will be deeper. We must therefore end this deficit policy and, of course, allow for greater public investment. We also see how the report you report to us demonstrates the inadequacy of our country's current funding system. How can it be that in the biggest health and economic crisis, and when the state has more resources, it turns out that the financing system envisages a decrease of 1.6% of investments? This is the failure of the financing model that Feijóo signed, and what we need is a new financing model that allows us to have more resources. [[Applause]] Because with the insufficiency of the financial system — and that would be every year, we already denounced it — what the People's Party did was simply accept this system submissively and does not want to change the frame, wants to continue with the same system that makes us more dependent. That's why we say there are no patches, we have to look beyond them, because the government has an obligation to work on a stage and predict the worst situations. That means anticipation. And although today we have a given hope, which is that there may be a vaccine soon, it is also true that people themselves are saying that that vaccine generally for the population as soon as it will arrive at the end of next year. That means we're going to continue working on a scenario of uncertainty, where we think what the government has to do here is to anticipate that scenario that could be the worst. And we see how in these budgets there is also evidence of the abandonment of the functions of the Greek Government in using the tax tools that Galicia has and in defending our interests better before the state. Because look, you yourself recognize that these increases are mainly due to the resources from the increase in deficit and also to the extraordinary transfer of budgets. If these two mechanisms didn't exist, we could be in smaller budgets than last year's ones. And we also see how in the collection capacity that the Galician Union has, there is no extraordinary effort at this moment to make more resources. In fact, non-financial own resources foresee a fall of 7.6%. And we believe that the Government of Greece devastates fiscal regulatory capacity, and could do so by giving the IRPF more progress, the wealth tax, it could create its own taxes, it could bet on a green tax right now that it would allow us to have more resources to cope with the worst situation. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, Galicia, from our point of view, does not need roofs, does not need boundaries and corsets. What it needs is to expand public investment to respond to the serious health, economic and social crisis that leaves this pandemic to us. We see, in addition, how in the crisis governments are being very demanding of citizenship, which is being asked for a plus of responsibility and a plus of effort also on a personal level, with high emotional consequences. But I think it's important to emphasize that this plus that is asked of the citizen must be accompanied by responsibility on the part of the Government. And the government's responsibility to contain the crisis is to strengthen public health, to hire more trackers, to have more capacity to PCR, to have more public investment to strengthen and rescue people who are currently suffocated by this economic crisis.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u14	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u15	The government's responsibility is to lay the foundations for the structural changes our country needs, betting on a green economy, industry and science. And for that, what is needed is more country ambition, more economic resources, and not limits to our public investment. Because, ladies and gentlemen — and finally, President — we are at a time when the dilemma is not saving lives or saving the economy; saving lives is an ethical and moral obligation, but it is also the first step to prevent the economic crisis from getting deeper. We know that we are in a frame where there are many uncertainties and we are asking the Government to act in anticipation and in anticipation, just what we haven't had so far. That's why we ask them and tell them it's not time for improvisation and propaganda, it's not time for politics to continue to accentuate inequalities...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u16	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u17	...but what we need is to rescue and support the workers and entrepreneurs, who are really going through it. We need to get Galicia to produce, we have a huge potential and we, of course, are going to work for that potential to start. On that line will be BNG's proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u19	People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counselor, ladies. In the face of an extraordinary situation, the government also brings us in the financial sector is an extraordinary expenditure ceiling. We went up from EUR 10.148 million last year — 300 million the spending ceiling of the previous year — to a spending limit of EUR 11.664 million; that is, EUR 1.516 million over the year 2020, an increase of almost 15%. We always give this debate the transcendence it deserves; it is the tenth time, indeed, that we celebrate it, but it takes place for the first time in a context of suspension of the rules of financial stability. And that's why this debate is of particular importance added. First, because it reflects the commitment to the transparency of the Government of the United States — and remember that this is one of the few parliaments in which the ceiling for self-sustainment is discussed, because in most of them this debate is absent from the chambers — transparency on what is the government's budgetary policy. But secondly, because it also complies with the Greek Act of financial stability and sustainability it allows us to maintain the medium and long-term commitment to financial stability, consistent with the objectives of the European Union and also with the economic orthodoxy that it follows, which is basically based on a long-term Keynesian balance, over the cycle, and around a social and market economy that is also generating the most prosperity on the European continent. Counsellor, we will obviously support the expenditure ceiling, for three reasons. First of all, because we understand that it is in line with the actions and recommendations of all experts and authorities, both of the Greeks, Spanish and European and international. Secondly, because it is based, with all cautions, on quite realistic forecasts of macroeconomic evolution, of course much more realistic than those of the Spanish Government. And thirdly, because we believe that approving the spending ceiling will contribute to increasing the certainty where we live in a deep uncertainty in an environment where both administration and administration will thus have more certainty that they would otherwise not have a spending roof. The first reason, therefore, is that the expenditure ceiling goes in the path of the right policies, according to all experts, including the Greeks, Spanish, Europeans and international forums. We are in a clear situation of economic pressure which is overcome by an unexpected health crisis, which causes in the economy a drop in both supply and aggregate demand, and what we are giving, since the Galician Union and with the support of the People's Group, an economic policy response based, first, on urgent financing of emergencies, both health and economic, and aid to the most affected productive sectors, as well as in the social sphere, through mechanisms such as direct transfers, reductions in tax charges at the moment and speeding up payment to suppliers. Secondly, when we have the vaccine — to see if it is true that it is going ahead — in the second phase of the pandemic, we will have to push the transformation with more selective support to those sectors that will not only allow a short-term crisis to be overcome, but will ensure greater resilience and prosperity of the Greek economy, moving forward in reducing emissions, in digital infrastructures, of course in health infrastructures. For that, I think that Junta is already laying the first foundations, restarting the ongoing projects before anyone else, accelerating the investment projects that were already in portfolios and also moving forward new projects for society to postcrisis. For in the context of the pandemic crisis, if everyone recommends that this is what needs to be done, we are in the first stage and this expenditure ceiling meets these needs. The 15% increase in expenditure responds to this need and it is possible, among other things, because Galicia has a tax space that allows us to ascertain the limits of indebtedness. We are certainly seeing everywhere in Europe as the previous levels of indebtedness, both public and private, are the ones that are allowing States to react. We are seeing how, thanks to the monetary policy of the European Union, we are being able to finance the economy from the public. But, of course, that funding capacity has a lot to do with the previous situation. Well, Galicia has reaction capacity, which reflects the increase in the expenditure ceiling, and we must always remember why. Because there are now forces that voted against the European Central Bank and do not realize that Spain and Galicia can be financed primarily by the lending support mechanisms being established by the European Central Bank. Spain was also in a bad debt position, above or around 100% of GDP. Germany, 60%; the Netherlands, 50%; and Finland, 34%, are examples of immediate reaction capacity with direct transfers to all workers, because they had fiscal margins. Fortunately, again the European Union is not only a macro scenario, but also through the Multiannual Financing Fund, in addition to the funding capacity granted by the European Central Bank, it approves the Next Generation Fund, which, together with the normal budgetary policies, will assume something as well as 1.8 billion euros in the coming years, which will especially benefit economies with less reaction margins, such as the Spanish economy. But, along with European support and the support which through the Government of Spain comes from Europe, Galicia has its own margin. The financial situation is better, the accounts were balanced, in recent years we managed to reduce the public debt ratio/GDP and, as the advisor said, it would be EUR 5.600 million that we would have in Galicia additional not to be by the policy that was taken with regard to the average of Spain, and therefore we are faced with a really extraordinary situation in which the good, better — relatively — Galicia position allows us to move forward. Mrs Pontón today decided in her speech to replace the old Mareas speech — I think following the Mareas examples is a bad example —. He did so both in intellectual references, quoting Professor Sampedro, as well as in verbal references, speaking on equality, without recognizing that, according to all the indexes — AROPE, Gini... — inequality has fallen in Galicia from 2008 to 2019; resorting to multinationals, without specifying whether multinationals are Welsh or are international in other countries; with a speech in which the only solution is self-government, saying that more tax sovereignty would have allowed us to get out of this, when it is obvious that, if it is not enough to be supported by the European Union and also by the state — as I will now make a reference — we would be much worse; and, of course, with a safe coupon system that the cost ceiling would not be what would be, but would be much lower, in accordance with any forecast of the settlement in current circumstances. The inconsistencies of PSOE are even more serious. After talking about the discourse of the cuts, which is rather inaccurate, especially from the year 2013, it turns out that what the Government presents is literally a fulfillment of the painting that the Government of Spain literally recommends on the margins of indebtedness that the Government of Spain recommends for autonomous communities. You have, on a recent initiative, recorded that Galician budgets will have a margin to incur a deficit of 1.4 billion euros, 1.4 billion euros when you grow the expenditure ceiling of 1.5 billion euros and you fall all games less precisely the indebtedness and transfers coming from the state, which are imputed as indebtedness to the autonomous communities. You were estimated at 1,400 million euros and you're not worth 1,500 million euros, you're going to vote against it. [[Applause]] It's amazing. They carry everything we carry from pandemic asking for loyalty from the Government of the United States to the Government of Spain and, once the Union brings a document that goes by the letter of what the Government of Spain calls for indebted capacity of autonomous communities, you're not worth it. Well, it's a shame that the first time they disagree with the Sánchez Government is to criticize the board's spending ceiling. I'm really surprised. Well, secondly, we think it's a realistic budget. The forecasts of State budgets show that everyone is clearly inflated: the Banco de España, Airef, the International Monetary Fund, the OECD, the European Commission. In Galicia, which has a trend towards growth greater than the average of Spain, as all economic reports are also saying, the estimated inertial growth is of 6, with funds will be of 8; it is a prudent and therefore realistic scenario, which we also consider appropriate. Thirdly, the spending ceiling, as I said as a third argument, is a message of trust to society. It is a reliable message to a society that knows that the Union will not leave anyone behind, that we will make every effort to save businesses, to save public services, to accelerate the necessary changes in the Spanish economy and to help those who need it most. [[Applause]] The message of trust and stability that throws this spending ceiling could be much better if you, especially the Socialist Group, were something consistent with what they normally ask for. It is that — I insist — the ceiling goes through the book of the recommendations of the Government of Spain. This is the first time that the Socialist Group has contradicted what the Government of Spain is asking for in this chamber. It's a shame it's just this time. Well, we have confidence in self-government, in Galicia's ability to cope with the crisis, in an unprecedented crisis, is the second unprecedented crisis that this government will face, and certainly in 2020 this government reacted and with this spending ceiling in 2021...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u21	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u22	...we will launch the exceptional measures that will enable us to overcome this exceptional situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u23	Thank you, Mr. Puy. I think I warned three times, I think it was three times the ones I played. Yeah, well, then we're all there. I'm checking. We're all here. We shall proceed to the vote. We vote. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Voting the ceiling on non-financial expenditure of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the year 2021, referred to in Article 12 of Law 2/2011 of 16 June 2011 on budgetary discipline and financial sustainability. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. The ceiling on non-financial expenditure of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the year 2021 is therefore approved. This debate is therefore over. We continue now with the agenda item. Debate on the opinion and on the motions for resolutions adopted at the meeting of the Non-Lexislative Standing Committee on Relations with the Council of Auditors on the monitoring reports of the Galician public sector contained in the 2018 Report of Activities of the Council of Auditors
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u24	It incorporates motions for resolutions: paragraph 1 of the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, on the adoption of the General Account of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the financial year 2017, followed by new motions for resolutions which were adopted by committee at the meeting on 27 October 2020, which are now being submitted to debate and vote, in particular the motions for resolutions Nos 2 to 7 of the People's Parliamentary Group, the motions for resolutions Nos 1 and 14 — dealt with — of the Galician Nationalist Bloc and the motion for a resolution No 23 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. For the presentation of the commission's dictation, the President of the Non-Lexislative Commission for Relations with the Board of Auditors, Mrs Raquel Arias Rodríguez, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u25	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. According to the Bureau of the Parliament of 17 August 2020, at the beginning of the legislative process, the writing of the Galician Board of Auditors transmitting the annual record of activities corresponding to the financial year 2018, which also includes the Audit Report of the General Account of the Autonomous Community of Galicia corresponding to the financial year 2017. After studying the aforementioned reports, as well as the seven motions for resolutions submitted by the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia, the fifteen submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block in Galicia and the 31 tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists in Galicia, the presentation appointed for this purpose, meeting on 20 October 2020, has raised the relevant report and the motions for resolutions to the Commission for Relations with the Council of Auditors, for which it was delivered at its meeting on 27 October 2020. The Commission's ruling incorporates draft resolution No. 1 of the People's Parliamentary Group on the approval of the General Account of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the financial year 2017. The remaining motions for resolutions which have been adopted in committee and which are now being put to the debate and the vote are nine. (a) Proposals for a resolution of the People's Parliamentary Group. Numbers 2 to 7 of this parliamentary group were approved. (b) Proposals for a resolution of the European Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block Galego. Two transactions have been approved on proposals 1 and 14 from this parliamentary group. (c) Proposals for a resolution of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. A transaction was approved on the proposal 23 of this parliamentary group. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u26	Thank you, Mrs Arias. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] It is now the turn of the parliamentary groups to mark the position of fixation and defend their motions for resolutions. You have the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Today we will discuss the dictation of the motions for resolutions adopted by the Standing Committee on Non-Lexislative Relations with the Council of Auditors on the monitoring reports of the public sector in Galicia contained in the 2018 Report on the Activities of the Council of Auditors and which includes the General Account of the Autonomous Community of Galicia 2017. The Socialist Parliamentary Group recognises and values very positively the work carried out by the Council of Auditors and we want to again congratulate the Chief Adviser and the Advisers and Counsellors, as well as the rest of the staff that are part of the Board of Auditors, for the rigorous work done, although the Socialists continue to maintain that the Board of Auditors needs a greater staffing to advance in this Section for the Prevention of Corruption and also in the preparation of reports that assess the implementation of public policies, as we have asked the Socialists in our motions for resolutions. The Board of Auditors does a rigorous job but is not free from pitfalls, obstacles due to the lack of collaboration of the Galician Council and its instrumental sector; a work which is not carried out by the Government of Greece, which repeatedly fails to comply with the recommendations which the Board of Auditors recommends year after year; traps for the body with control competence to always have limitations to develop its functions. The fact is that every time we do this debate, both in committee and here, this is a continuous already vu. The parliamentary groups propose, year after year, a series of motions for resolutions which the party that supports the Government of Galicia, with its usual knee of absolute majority, prevents them from being approved and, therefore, that the autonomous administration fulfil its obligation to formulate the General Account of the Autonomous Community and of the instrumental entities in accordance with the obligation of transparency and budgetary rigour to enforce the rules. The Socialists submit 31 motions for resolutions, which the Group of the People's Party rejected, preventing the adoption of Council recommendations such as that the Government of Greece urgently adopts a new public accounting plan, complying with a accounting regulation adopted in 2010 and which is binding on all public administrations. The Board of Auditors itself says that we are working on it, and it is expected that it will be approved at the end of 2018, without being accredited to the closure of this report, that is, when the state of processing has been presented. I mean, we're in 2020 and ten years later the Galician Union is still working on it, in mandatory law regulations. The People's Party also impedes the adoption of the recommendation that the Council of Galicia call upon it to delimit the entities which form part of the budget and the General Account, in order to provide greater transparency to the General Account of the Autonomous Community, which the Council expressly states is urgently addressing. The People's Party, the Group of the People's Party also prevents the use of the Galician Group in the implementation of the telematics surrender of the General Account of the Autonomous Community and prevents the accountancy movement—so that usually makes the Galician Board, which in 2017 I assumed a global amount of 270 million euros—. Or that the Autonomous Administration is required to thoroughly review the memory of the General Account, which year after year recommends the Board of Auditors, and to report on the follow-up of previous year's recommendations, which follows without being addressed. Nor does the Group of the People's Party consider it important that there are entities that are part of the autonomous administration and do not submit their accounts to be monitored. Finally, the German Government, the autonomous administration, a public administration in which it has been ruling the People's Party for eleven years uninterruptedly, presents year after year accounts lacking transparency and budgetary rigor. And since it has no consequences, as nothing happens, the group that supports the Government understands that the recommendations of the Board of Auditors are only to carry out an administrative process, without the need to require the Council of Galicia to comply, to take into account the recommendations and to comply with its regulatory obligations.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u28	Finish it, Mrs. Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u29	I have already finished, Madam President — I'm sorry, I called you Mr President before. It is true that the Board of Auditors, as it has finished, has already refused to re-express itself, to put it expressly: "It is clear that significant progress has generally not been appreciated, so in view of its insufficient degree of implementation, they will be reiterated in the present report." And this year, for these control reports, it was replaced by "it's working on it." It is understandable, since the Board of Auditors repeatedly uses the formula I had previously commented on, but it is that the Council of Galicia does absolutely nothing. So it's an elegant and discreet way on the side of Galicia's board to say, man, they're not doing anything, and so put that "they're working on it." I'm done. It is a pity that the party that supports the Government does not approve the motions for resolutions made by this parliamentary group, which only makes it expressly, and virtually literally, collect the recommendations made by the Board of Auditors, preventing the transparency that is supposed to be in the public administration and obviating the budgetary rigor that must have the Council of Galicia. For my part, nothing else, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] You have the floor now, by the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u31	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Today it concludes the debate on several control reports of the Galician public sector drawn up by the Board of Auditors and is today the final point of a process which is undoubtedly framed by two events: on the one hand, the interruption of the previous legislation, its dissolution, which has interrupted this debate, and on the other hand, an unprecedented pandemic, which has caused this conclusion to be delayed for more than eight months. And, ladies and gentlemen, I think we have to be aware that today's Galician is different from the 2017 General Account Galician, which we have closed today. It's different from Galicia's 2018 memory reports, which we also put today as a final point, and even Galicia's early 20s started this debate. But there is something that has remained unchanged, which is the popular party's unwillingness to accept proposals that imply that they make mistakes and involve the slightest correction. And that's bad news. It's a bad news in general democratic terms, but it's a very bad news at this historic moment, where to hit it will determine when and how we go out as a country, and that's really demolition, as the president of the Galician Union would say. In addition, this debate has an aggravating point to be made: that most of the proposals that the People's Party today rejects are claims, simply recommendations from the Board of Auditors, some of which are set out in our recommendations literally, many of them repeated year by year and also rejected by the People's Party and lost year by year. They're the classics of the Board of Auditors. For example, the need to correct abuse of the resources of the Continent Fund and unforeseen expenditure programmes to pay current expenditure, which — translated — means that it is budgeted and planned badly. For example, there are insufficient measures to contribute to the prevention of corruption and to promote transparency, not even from the institutional point of view. Or, for example, the high number of entities and bodies dependent on the Galician Board that simply do not report to the Board of Auditors or send partial information. Or, for example, something as important as the lack of transparency about the Greek debt. A few minutes ago, in the previous debate, the councillor assumed. We, of course, since the Galician Nationalist Block don't understand what I'm saying. We're at most historical debt, our country has never had so much, and there's no information on how and for that debt to be generated. That's what's put on the table in the recommendations that the People's Party will reject once again. I was thinking about my companions and companions. The important thing is that we can have instruments to evaluate that debt, to see how and for which it was generated, because, for example, yesterday, we learned that never had so many covid revenues our country had in the Greek hospitals in this second wave, we have to think about that, after having tripled the debt of our country, today there are fewer installed beds and fewer running beds that 11 years ago, when you came in to rule. So, what do we value is that triple of the Greek debt if it's not used to strengthen our public health system? That's the reality the People's Party leaves us. [[Applause]] And linked to this question of public services, once again, we draw attention to how the Board of Auditors reiterates, over and over again, that the public system is underfunded, especially health care. And today the People's Party, also rejecting our proposals, also vetoes something as important as correcting the abuse of concerts and privatizations, as solving the situation of such important aspects as the situation of health research foundations, as making a staff stabilization plan, to which we then call for miracles. And in short, because a number of proposals from a number of areas that I will not have time to detail, but which, in short, address fundamental issues denounced by the Council and Accounts and important to our country. 15 proposals, of which the People's Party will only accept 2. One is the approval of the General Account, which we always approve of all by unanimity, and the other is simply that they will make an effort to meet the requirements of the FCI, but they remain on the path other as important as European funds; in short, rejected accounts because it would be assumed that having absolute majority does not mean they are always right or doing things right. But I am finished with a last thought that seems serious to me and portrays the Government of sovereignty. The proposals presented by BNG are the same as we recorded at the beginning of the year, because the reports were prior to this pandemic, but there were problems like health or the residences that were already there, and it was serious yesterday that they rejected them, but it is more serious today. For example, resolution No. 6, which says something as elementary as it is necessary for the Galician Union to occupy all the squares that it has in public residences. Today we have residences, like Carballino's, that aren't 100 percent busy. We say something as important as providing the public system of residential squares. Before that was a necessity, but, after eight months of pandemic, it is indecent to refuse such proposals. [[Applause]] So we understand from the Galician Nationalist Block that, in summary, it is a bad news that the People's Party continues with this attitude of sovereignty and that proposals are rejected that objectively are fundamental to this country. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Presas Berganginos. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Varela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u33	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Parliament's audit reports on the public sector accounts of Galicia in 2017 are being added to its approval. First of all, in the name of the People's Group, we want to give good time to the Board of Auditors, its chairman, its advisors and all its staff for their intense work contained in a memory. They are, nothing more and nothing less than 27 reports submitted to comply with what our Autonomy Statute says and with the regulatory law itself of this statutory body. It's 21 reports, hundreds of reflections and leaflets that allow us to know the public accounts of Galicia to Parliamentarians and the Galician society. Secondly, on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, we want to give good time to the Government of the Council of Galicia, which at difficult times maintains Galicia's political, economic and institutional stability, because it informs the body that monitors the resources of all the Greeks at a time — it must also be remembered — in which possible, if we were to be trusted by some parliamentary group, this House would not be nearly constituted, this monitoring work for 2017 could not have been done, the monitoring work could not have been presented and the 2019 Memory and could not have been approved, as if we had approved in the preceding point, the economic objective for this year. The reports presented believe that the information is complete, both in the General Account and in all public centers of the Autonomic Administration. They reflect the faithful image of the assets of the results and the liquidation of the budgets approved by this House. Therefore, in view of some different vision, Galicia renders accounts in time, in general and in part of its organisms. The truth is it's surprising, but, as some spokespersons have said, it seems that this is normal, that we live in totally different realities. It won't be all perfect, but, from then on everything is wrong, we really believe from this group that you don't care about that negative message about the economic management of the Galician Union, especially at the beginning of a legislation, when there are four absolute majority -- and this reinforced -- of Alberto Núñez Feijóo. You really believe you can fool a lot of people for a long time and that's absolutely impossible. I'm not going to use my time to compare Galician economic management with state economic management or economic management of municipalities governed by PSOE and BNG. By the way, we could also talk a lot about this because they're also audited in these Board of Auditors reports. We will focus on what is already the usual rhetoric, on the recommendations of the Board of Auditors. I'm not going to talk about speeches, I'm going to read the reports on these recommendations. Textually: "It is found that General Intervention is working on the new General Public Accounting Plan in the implementation of the General Account's telematic performance, which has already been sent as a novelty in electronic format in 2017..." -- it was just said that it was not being sent; the Board of Auditors says it has been sent. "...intervention refers to the reform and updating of the regulatory framework in economic, budgetary and accounting matters." It also says, textually, the Board of Auditors: "On January 31, 2018, the General Intervention of the Autonomous Community gave an instruction on the principle of budgetary yearhood." He also says — as much as we speak of Sergas— textually: "In the last years, particularly in 2017, with regard to Sergas, he has advanced in reducing the expenditure." Yes, ladies and gentlemen, in Galicia we move forward. [[Applause]] Here we approve budgets, here we approve expenditure ceilings, here we execute budgets — unlike elsewhere — and here we report. We are accountable to the Council of Auditors, to Parliament and, above all, to the Greeks, because this Government knows how to manage. We are — and so appreciate it — a solvency community that pays what it owes and does not spend more than it has. But we also know that much remains to be done, so we are grateful for the comings of the rest of the parliamentary groups, we accept motions for resolutions of the first opposition party — No. 1 and No. 14 — and we also approve a number of their recommendations; and the same for the Socialist Group. Many of them, in addition, will understand that it cannot be an imposition of parliamentary groups because, if we all say so much respect the Board of Auditors, we will also have to respect what the Board of Auditors wants to investigate and not tell you exactly what you have to investigate from here. And indeed, with the extended hand to continue working on the 2019 Memory, I ask on behalf of the People's Group to vote in favour of the dictatorship and the motions for a resolution of the 2017 public sector control reports contained in the memoir of the Galician Council of Auditors. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u34	Thank you, Mr. King Varela. At the end of the debate, we proceeded to the vote on the dictatorship and the motions for resolutions adopted at the meeting of the Non-Lexislative Standing Committee on Relations with the Council of Auditors on the monitoring reports of the Galician public sector contained in the 2018 Report of Activities of the Council of Auditors. [[General Account of the Autonomous Community of Galicia 2017]] First of all, we shall vote on the committee's statement. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the stage]] We vote. Voting of the award adopted at the meeting of the Non-Lexislative Standing Committee on Relations with the Council of Auditors in relation to the monitoring reports of the public sector in Galicia contained in the 2018 Report of Activities of the Council of Auditors. [[General Account of the Autonomous Community of Galicia 2017]] The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 73. The voting is positive. It is therefore adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u35	We are now voting on the motions for resolutions adopted by the Commission, which are, in particular, paragraphs 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 of the People's Parliamentary Group; paragraphs 1 and 14 of the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block of Galicia; and paragraph 23 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Can we vote together? [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Presas?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u36	By the BNG, we call for a separate vote on proposals 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 of the People's Group; and on the 1, 14 and 23 of the Nationalist and Socialist groups.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u37	Thank you. Well, we started voting... [[Mr Rodríguez Rumbo asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u38	We request that division to vote on the points separately. The transactions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u39	So...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u40	That's right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u41	We then begin by voting on the proposals of the People's Parliamentary Group Nos 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7. We vote. Motion for a resolution Nos 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 G.P. People of Galicia adopted at the meeting of the Non-Lexislative Standing Committee on Relations with the Council of Auditors on the monitoring reports of the public sector of Galicia contained in the 2018 Annual Report of the Council of Auditors [[General Account of the Autonomous Community of Galicia 2017]] The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; abstentions, 32. The voting is positive. These proposals are therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u42	We can now vote together on the proposals of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and the proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They would be numbers 1 and 14 of the Nationalist Block Galego and number 23 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. I was referring to that. We vote. There must be a mistake there, someone must have been confused. Yes, a mistake. Now we're correct. No, no, he said he manifested his desire to correct it and I've already fixed it from here; it's easy this correction. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There's only one vote against it, he wants to pass the positive and it's over, he's got no more stories. [[Laughter]] We vote. Vote for proposals Nos 1 and 14 of the G.P. Galego Nationalist Block and G.P. number 23. of the Socialists of Galicia, adopted at the meeting of the Non-Lexislative Standing Committee on Relations with the Council of Auditors on the monitoring reports of the public sector of Galicia contained in the Report of Activities of the Council of Auditors of 2018 [[General Account of the Autonomous Community of Galicia 2017]] The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 73. The voting is positive. These proposals are therefore adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u43	The debate on this point has ended. We continue with the agenda, which is now the legislative texts. Comprehensive discussion of the Galician Continental Fisheries Act
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u44	Amendments have been tabled to the entire Socialist Parliamentary Group and to the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block. For the introduction of the bill, Mrs. Ánggeles Vázquez Mejuto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u45	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, let us bring to this House today the draft of which will be the future Continental Fisheries Act of Galicia; a text which now begins its parliamentary process, which will replace the law of 1992 - three decades of the vigency of a law - and which is now necessary to adapt and modernize. Fishing is a sports activity that gives us the opportunity to be in touch with nature. It's an activity that has many advantages linked: the knowledge it offers of our natural environment, the behavior of the species and also its capacity as a dynamizer of the environment and nature tourism. From the Council of Galicia we know that knowledge and the value of our territory, our natural environment and biodiversity are very important steps towards its protection, so our goal is to reconcile sport and recreation with the conservation of nature and biodiversity. The text we are going to discuss today is based on the importance of fishing in Galicia; a community in which we have 40,000 fishermen, we manage 150,000 fishing permits a year and we have 160 skilled annual fishing days. We are faced with an activity which currently concentrates at 14,043 kilometers from the rivers of Greece, of which are of free water 11,778, which is now 83%; of raw water, 1,114 kilometers, 7%; and fishing fences, 1,551 kilometers, 10%. In Galicia we also have 66 partners in river fishing, 24 in the province of Coruña, 21 in Lugo, 9 in Ourense and 12 in the province of Pontevedra. Of these, 59 have an agreement with the Environmental Council, i.e. 98% of the entities. This new Continental Fisheries Act will be the instrument that enables us to take care of what we already have and move forward in four objectives: to ensure generational remittance and to promote education and awareness of the younger; to promote sustainable and environmentally friendly fishing; to place fishing as a tool for tourism, economic and social development in our rural environment; and to provide us with a new and strategic planning of fisheries management that enables us to value natural fish resources. In the processing of the text we seek the greatest possible consensus and involve all agents, so we consult a total of 47 agencies. And with this new law we will continue to advance in the renewal of the regulatory framework of the natural heritage area, which has had two outstanding features in the last three years: on the one hand, the Act of Protection and Welfare of Pets in Galicia, of which we are currently working on its regulation, and the Law of Natural Heritage, adopted in 2019. I will now highlight the main developments in this new legislative text that we propose for fishing. As I said, one of the main objectives of this law is to guarantee the necessary generational relief in this activity. In this sense, it is important to highlight an important fact, and is that the current average age of fishermen in Galicia is between 50 and 70 years old, although it is true that licences for under 20 years have increased by 3 points since 2010. That's the line we have to follow and what we must conquer, since we are also aware that encouraging contact with young people and girls with nature is always a very positive aspect. We believe that the way in which we must go to achieve this must be based on awareness, training and the promotion of sporting and environmental values associated with this activity among the younger. For that reason, one of the new features of the legislative text is the creation of river schools for the first time in Galicia; schools that will aim to involve and educate smaller ones in the conservation of continental aquatic ecosystems and which will be developed through the regulation of the law, but which can be implemented first through agreements with collaborative entities and with the Galician Fisheries Federation. These schools are already being a success in other autonomous communities, as is the case with Castile and León, and through them young and young people come into contact with nature, respect and also protect their surroundings and in them, through theory, but also through practice, they will learn not only the techniques of fishing, but will acquire knowledge of other kinds, such as flora, fauna and climate. In this way, we are committed to the promotion and training, as well as to education and collaboration with the Welsh strategy of environmental education, providing training through basic principles and always going from the hands of the newer. In addition, in this same line of involving young people and girls in fishing, we also take measures concerning licences. Specifically, boys up to 14 years old can't practice fishing without a license, as long as they're accompanied by an adult. All minors will not have to pay the fees for obtaining a licence and will also enjoy free permits for the practice of fishing without death. The second objective of this text is to continue the bet on sustainable and environmentally friendly fishing. For this reason, the law includes several measures aimed at promoting the progressive involvement of deathless fishing in our autonomous community. To give you the knowledge and drive of this mode among the younger, we've made new settings. Currently in Galicia we have 143 tranches enabled to fish without death, which account for a total of 341 kilometers. What we want is that we continue to coexist the traditional fishing model rooted in our community, that is, extractive, with deathless fishing, and seek a greater balance between the two, just as it is happening in the rest of the state and in other countries around us. For this purpose, the law includes measures such as promotion and dissemination by partner fishing entities, specific training programmes and the freeness of deathless fishing permits for all minors. Through this law we also want to give special protection to traditional fishing techniques, which are representative of culture, but also of the traditional way of life in Galicia. Among them are the fishing grounds of the Ulla River, the estates of the Tea River for the fishing of the lamprea or the canaries of Portomarín. Our goal is to ensure its transmission, promotion and value. The future continental fishing law also seeks to promote the tourism, economic and social development of the natural environment, and to do so in different ways that allow fishing to be a sustainable tourism engine in our society. And for this we think of measures such as those which are reflected in the law: the granting of fish stocks in cours and ponds to tourist companies, the reservation of specific permits for tourist entities, the exemption of license rates over the age of 65 and the simplification and axillization of the processing of minor actions of maintenance and conservation of our rivers, such as the removal of dead trees and pruning that prevent access to the channel or reduce its capacity or removal of elements dragged by the current that block the channel, especially in works of weight. The fourth and last of the objectives of the Galician Continental Fisheries Act focuses on the importance of management for balanced use of the rivers. In this way, the continental waters are classified as fishables and not fishables. And in fishing we distinguish between free waters for fishing or waters subject to a special regime. Within these last two categories: sports-social and training scenarios and fishing waters for various uses; a measure included in the package of measures to boost fishing tourism in our rivers and which already applies in other communities, such as Castile-Leon. These waters are used to promote fishing, to carry out programmes with children, for the practice of older fishers, to enable the training of competitors and to move the fishing economy in periods of ban, and in particular to benefit the rural environment. The text also provides for a plan for the use and management of continental fisheries through the development of a plan for the management of continental fisheries in the region. As for the species, it sets out a list of which can be the subject of continental fishing and establishes a self-guided regime for the specimens, as is the case with the shark, and for the identification of catches, so that it will be the fisherman himself, which informs the Administration of the data of the catches made. This is something new that exists in other countries of the European Union and is an example of co-responsibility in management by those who practice fishing. In addition, it integrates the regulation of invasive exotic species and regulates restocks and looses, determining that the latter must always be carried out with native species and under the control of the Environmental Council. Finally, and also in the text, a restructuring of infringements is included, and it pays special attention to repairing the damage caused and restoring the changed situation to its previous state. One of the focussing on the new text is the Law against Stealth, tightening sanctions for fishing without license and using prohibited devices, and also in the eradication of invasive exotic species, including the possibility of taking specific measures and determining the prohibition of their return to water. Finally, the use of paralysing or repellent devices and the marketing of any kind of sport or recreational fishing is also prohibited. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, since the Environmental Council, we have continued to work to increase the number of continental fishing licences. We understand that it is necessary to ensure generational relief, and also to encourage new regulations to seek our support for fishermen so that they can develop this practice in the best possible conditions, always looking for sustainable and environmentally friendly fishing. What we want, ultimately, is that our rivers continue to be a source of life along and across our geography, because the rivers of Galicia are our flag at the natural, environmental and also landscape level. They are an indispensable part of our green and blue Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u46	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The role of defence of amendments to the whole - of return - and of positioning with respect to the bill. For the Socialists' Parliamentary Group, Mr. Aranguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Counsellor, thank you for your litany on the subject we are dealing with today, which is the possibility of approval of the bill that I will call "water fishing," because I am, let's say, attached to the old denominations, which seem more appropriate to me. Counsellor, the sign of the times is clearly unfavorable to humanistic issues, including legislation. Legislative quality has tended to decline in general for a long time, and the compulsive need that Galician Union has to appear to do things, to do what it does, can perhaps explain some of the attack against the sense of the times that the bill brings us here today. But let me tell you that it is absolutely unprecedented that a law made in the year 2020, which, in theory, aims to protect and encourage continental, river-based fishing in our community, in practice, assumes a genuine backwardness in that protection and promotion, insofar as it significantly worsens a law done nothing more and nothing less than twenty-eight years ago, in 1992, when environmental law was in diapers. It is therefore difficult to see that a law of 2020 is less environmental protection than another law of 1992, I insist, when environmental law was in diapers. That's why it deserves to be returned and rethinked, starting with its own need, because there is no real need for a new fishing law, except for the fact that the department that you run shows a very poor normative fertility; that is, as the Environment Department takes time without significant legislative activity, a law must be made, which is the explanation that happens to them, the only one, to people who are well aware of the administration and the world of fishing. And the truth is that this law is unnecessary and its presentation lacks a solid justification, since in the explanatory statement it is used as the main argument the long vigil of Law 7/1992, when the problem is not the long vigil of the 1992 legislative rule, the problem is the very mismanagement of resources carried out by the Council of Galicia, which does not comply with that Act of 1992 and that neither do you enforce it, the constant omission of its powers, namely to sanction and prevent river aggression, and the constant environmental deterioration of river ecosystems, which has resulted in a situation of abandonment of river fishing by many of its practitioners, dropping nearly half the number of fishing licences in the last decade. So, where Galicia has come to have nearly 100,000 fishing licenses, now they turn, as you said, the 40,000, and it's not a problem of generational relief, as unfortunately you argue and says the explanatory statement of the law. I myself am a fisherman -- who inherited the passion for my father's river fishing -- and for 20 years I practiced that condition, while I was seeing how river ecosystems and fishing were less in Galicia, to a point where a fisherman like me ceases to draw the license and ceases to go to the river, like so many others, about 50,000, except for something else that is not to walk. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You know why? Because there are no trout, no criminals, no salmon. That's only for you Chinese mandarin, because it's not something you know or care about, but I'm already commenting on it. That is to say, saying that there are no trout is an excessive simplification; trout there are in most rivers, what happens is that when ten years ago it was relatively easy to approach a river and catch half a dozen trout in a couple of hours, it's almost impossible today because fishing has fallen into bites, in bites! Not overfishing, Madam Counsellor, because fishermen, as I say - and you recognize, I suppose - are less and less. That's not why. And since you don't know more about fishing than what your technicians tell you, because to know something about fishing, you have to kick rivers, read scientific magazines -- something you don't have to do; it would suffice for you to politically address properly -- I'm not saying you don't know about fishing, what I'm saying is this law that you're perpetrating. [[Murmurs.]] You must be in love with the subject and know it. [[Murmurs.]] And I'm going to explain, therefore, the reasons why there are no trout, "fishing species," as the law says. You'll see, a river is an ecosystem. From this ecosystem is part of the fish species, which is the queen of our rivers, whose fishing has been part of our traditional culture for centuries; not only of ours, but also of others like English. For example, I mention that one of the classics of English-language literature is a book that I have read for so long that I don't remember anymore and that is called The complex angler, translated into our language as the perfect cane fisherman. As Izaak Walton had already appreciated -- author of the book and more or less contemporary of Cervantes -- fishing, like almost everything else, is a holistic issue, which depends on the state of the rivers, and the state of our rivers has not ceased to worsen this century by a combination of factors that conflict in its progressive and constant environmental deterioration. Climate change makes drought episodes more and more intense and frequent. I hope you don't need to explain that, since the trout fish, if the river stays waterless, there are no trouts, because, unlike the capital, trout can't move away -- I say these obvious things, because I understand that the lady advisor, given the litany that she performed here too today, doesn't understand much about this --. [[Murmurs.]] And the more water there is in a river, the better is the quality of that river's ecosystem, which is made up of the river itself and all that surrounds it; with which, they form a system that, if healthy, gives shelter to a large icticcola population, and if it is not, it happens just the opposite. It turns out that Galicia has one of the largest concentrations of Spanish prisoners, and Spain is the first country in the European Union and the fifth in the world by number of prisoners. "The country of a thousand rivers," as Cunqueiro called it, has become the country of the many dams, and every dam is an obstacle to the upstream of the salmon and those who tend to climb up the rivers to find their millers in the high courses of the rivers or in the beds of the rivers. If we cut them back down, interposing the wall of a hydropower dam that can't clear, overcomes the tides of their populations, not to mention that they can't go down once they defuse it. And what affects trout is even more affected by salmon and sharks, which are migratory or anadromous species -- that is, they live in the sea or in the rivers, in case of salmon and sharks respectively -- and then water in the rivers. Then there's the acute problem, accused, growing pollution, which instead of going at least goes further, among other things, because you don't sanction, except testimony. And I take advantage, because we are here -- if you want to answer me -- to ask you how many sanctions have been imposed in recent years -- in any time period, I don't care -- for pollution, for failure to comply with the ecological flow or for failure to comply with the obligation not to market salmon. I'll tell you, very few, very few. You're not being punished, Counselor. The problem with this law, as I told you, is that it will happen to history -- if it is approved -- because it is, incredibly, a less environmentalist law than the one Fraga made, perhaps because Fraga, who wasn't characterized by his respect for the environment, whether he knew anything about the world of fishing, the difference of Feijóo or of you, whose fishing is, roughly, as familiar and as close as the Basque ball — love —. So you're defending less the environment than Mr. Manuel Fraga, which is to say! [[Murmurs.]] This law makes it disappear as a serious breach of the ecological flow, which was in the past, or the failure to comply with the obligation to install and maintain lift devices in good condition, providing only requirements for new concessions and hydraulic authorisations in the face of the serious breaches of the numerous previous concessions and authorisations, constantly elucidating obligations to maintain ecosystems in a sustainable manner, such as the installation of dams and keeping them in adequate condition and protective devices to prevent access of icticicles to drift currents or arrivals, those already mentioned to install removal devices or other alternatives to ensure periodic migrations of fish along river courses, or to maintain minimum flows - if, repeatedly unmet in Galicia -. These are issues that are not properly incorporated into the text, which indicates that in this field the Government of Greece is incredibly moving towards a much more lax regulation, with all that it can provoke. I mean, let's go back, like crabs. And it does not introduce any remarkable novelty for the control of harmful vegetation and waste that affects aquatic fauna and water, and it also reduces enormously - and this strongly calls attention - the sanctioning regime, as it reduces the amount of sanctions for offenders, thereby reducing the coercive power in this area. In general, infringements are reduced by less than half, when twenty-eight years have passed since the previous law, and the simple effect of inflation accumulated in twenty-eight years should cause them to multiply. Do you know what has been inflation since 1992? 88%. In other words, a penalty of EUR 100, or the corresponding pesetas in 1992, updated today would be EUR 188. Which means that sanctions would almost have to be doubled by the simple effect of inflation, and yet you generally reduce them to half. For example, the penalty for very serious infringements, which could reach 50 million pesetas in the law of 1992, now remains at a maximum of EUR 150,000, that is, half. And so on, so on. A green that is a very serious infringement, for example, comes out today at half the price that in 1992, and, if we count inflation, it comes out at the fourth part of the price. We're going back like the crabs, and we're moving from the principle of "polluter pays" to the principle of "polluter pays" to the polluter receives the fourth part of the fine he received in 1992. No clear measures are also laid down for the conservation of beds which guarantee the maintenance of their natural conditions, and the gradual elimination of invasive species is obvious. It is also very difficult to understand the withdrawal of the so-called Continental Fisheries Management Fund. Another fundamental aspect that does not foresee the bill is the problem that is generating the limited number of troops for inspection and surveillance work; very little I would say, that they are practically null in the summer season because most of the troops are destined for fire prevention and extinction work. And, Counsellor, with all due respect, you have no credibility when your inaction to the polluting greens of the River Furelos - i.e., to the river of your people, of what was mayored -, as mayor first and then as Environmental Counsellor, has led this river to be a river that has been registering contaminants for 15 years since 2005, and without you having done absolutely nothing to remedy it, when you were mayor of Melide's for eight years and counselor for more than two years. What is your credibility in protecting the rivers completely deprotected and allowed it to be severely attacked against the river of the people of which it was mayored? [[Applause]] And I'm finished by saying that the 1992 Fisheries Act was a necessary law in its time, which required progress in regulating river fishing in Galicia to the extent that it surpassed a franchisy law that had become obsolete after half a century of changes in river fishing and in the conservation of the environment. It was a law protecting fishing and river ecosystems, properly drafted and not intended to cover regulatory aspects, like this one does. He had 46 articles. The current one has 88, that is, almost twice as much. In an absolutely far-sighted way, it's just contrary to what it should be, it's tending to deprotect rivers and river ecosystems. Counsellor, you withdraw this law and, if you don't, at least change your name to a more appropriate one: "Lei deprotection deprotection of river ecosystems." Thank you very much and nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u48	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u49	Thank you, President. At the bottom of the Lake of Cospeito there was a desolate city, say, by the God of Christians in the time he was walking around the world; a city punished by the lack of charity of its inhabitants. And so, before the modern barbarism of his drought, in winter nights he felt the laity of the bells of the church of Valverde. At the old bridges that save the trap of the rivers on the paths of the old used to be a well, called the moars, which treasures a valuable grid of solid gold that is waiting to be disenchanted by a young barrel that knows how to require the magic words in the way, no doubt. And it was with water from a stream that moved seven rollers above that in popular medicine were washed against the children affected by deception or tanganism in the days of the dawn. In the romaries of snacks that we visit the people of Greece in the summer there is always a source that testifies to a tough pre-Christian rite of purification, which was sanctified with the worship of the cross through a chapel and a saint or a holy many times of suspicious origin. Ladies and gentlemen, this is us, a culture planted in water, a territory made up of a spider web of veins that goes from the smallest capillaries, formed by fountains and streams, to the arteries that are the kingly rivers and the father Mino sucking the country. Those veins, genuine corridors of biodiversity, are our guarantee of life, of maintaining the necessary kindness between us and nature. Because water is the liquid of life, life-giving, and that should deal with this bill that we are debating today. And it is in this context of water, tradition and life that we want to place this threat, Counsellor, this lack of respect which the PP presents to us today in the form of a bill. Because, ladies and gentlemen, this fear of a bill that has been carried out since the Greek Government is part of an inreflection, that our continental waters and their ecosystems enjoy good health. This is a falsehood that attacks the common sense of the people we know and we love the Greek nature. Because any rule that seeks to regulate the use and enjoyment of a collective natural good must be based on the analysis of the state of that good. To affirm in 2020 since the Government officially that the rivers of Greece are profitable for fishing and that they radiate abundance and good health is a barbarity. A Greek river is -- I resist to say "was" -- a diverse ecosystem in which one should be able to contemplate otters, martins fishers, trouts, salmon, sharks, lightnings, ladders, eagles, riverbirds, ducks, chickens, water pellets, demon horses, briers and bees... I know! All a list of mobile life that, along with the noodles, thorns, rescues, sausages, eggs, breezes, agron teeth—and all that flora and fauna of the river that would not have time to name—conform and conform the flumens and wetlands of this country. And what is the present state of this treasure with which the gods have given us? What's the quality of your water? Because our rivers are turning into currents that travel to the sea the most diverse wastes and pollutions: scraps that run faultyly, leachings of waste dumps of all kinds — this great business of the 21st century —, uncontrollable mineral waters, muds of purification poured directly into the waters with impunity... and all with full knowledge of the facts by the incompetent authorities. And nothing is done. Nothing! Catastrophy? No, all of this has names: Lingueuelle, Mandeo, Eume, Mera, Furelos, Umia, Ulla... There wouldn't be one river or pond left without a name. Nor should it be said that these spaces should be the natural barriers to fires, places of containment and penetration for their extinction; and also the protected areas for the preservation of environmental health in general. But nothing is mentioned of this aspect and nothing is legislated to condition, preserve and potentiate this function. Yeah. They propose a continental fishing law demeaning — as we have just explained — the main element: rivers and their conservation. And this is already manifest in the preamble to the law itself. How is it possible not to make any mention throughout the text of Law 5/2006, of June 30, for the protection, conservation and improvement of the Greek rivers, and not to put both rules in close relation? Of course, it was a popular legislative initiative and now... finally, it upsets the practical interests of PP policies. The best, therefore, is obvious, making it like it doesn't exist. And the other one happens both with Law 5/2019, of Galicia's natural heritage, which is also forgotten in the preamble. Last year's summer law promulgated in Article 87 that the Administration will give priority role to river courses in order to improve the ecological coherence and connectivity of the territory. Go, go! This idea doesn't move into the new document, it's annoying, paying attention to free business. They therefore present a law with an ostensible conservationist deficit that leaves aside the conservation, restoration and fundamental principles of sustainability. They only speak of a right to take advantage of the reality that the resource is found instead of how it is preserved. On the contrary — as we have already seen — not a word to the rivers of life and the main role of these in the whole of Greek nature: channels of biodiversity irradiation. Only by keeping the police strips of our river currents preserved and well protected would it already allow a good deal of river health to be recovered. Short mention and lack of legislation deserves the situation of these fringes, invaded by exotic forest use, sometimes almost to the same cover, and non-autochthonous invasive flora species, resulting from the lack of control in its multiplication and sale. Nothing tells us of some coronations where native icticula species have completely disappeared to give way to large-sized exotic species for a sporty use that leads us to the danger of the entire ecosystem. I'm telling you about the black bass and those things that are being taken now. All these issues should be the subject of their monitoring and control; but it is not, however, to make them look fat, it is worse: they hide reports and complaints from their technicians and agents, tolerate spills of polygons, leaching of landfills, spreading untreated sludges, the existence of semi-landesthetin ferries, muds of different origins that in times of heavy rain soak and contaminate surface water and aquifers. Promote the right to exercise fishing, Article 1. What is bloody is that in Article 1 itself, the right to fishing must be done in accordance with a sustainable practice and respecting the conservation of river heritage and its biodiversity. And this should be reflected in the object of the law of entry in its first article, since these are matters that go beyond what are law-inspiring principles, as they show in the third article: "The conservation and sustainability of the resource, the life of the river that can be taken advantage of, must be a priority object and not a basis for arguing and justifying the realization of the activity." Fishing in rivers must preserve what has always been: a public and socialized fishing, either with free sections or by means of cuts of non-profit fishermen, governed by principles of public service, which contemplates aquatic ecosystems as a common asset to care for and rescue and with legal bases that allow sustainable use based on scientific data and principles. No reference would be made to hydraulic uses, which continue to be the major obstacle in more than 70% of our river courses for migratory species. Anguy is in danger of extinction, Counselor, in his wild state. And salmon has reduced its existence by more than 99% in the last 50 years. Why does this law make no mention of the obligation to install effective franchise devices to allow these species to complete their biological cycle? "The plunger of justice -- I have not seen anything like it -- picks up the little fish and lets the big ones pass." This is a traditional glass. [[Applause]] And so we came across the transitional provision Friday, which requires a covert amnesty to the holders of hydraulic takeovers, who have been causing irreparable damage to our rivers for years and years, by ignoring the legal obligation to establish removal devices or other alternatives to allow the migration of fish. Another to the necessary circulation of the gravels that drag the water and make up the living beds of the rivers. So many years of permissiveness, from looking to the other side. Oh, yes! But now it's law. That permissiveness is already in law. What a subtle way to favour those fat fish that violate the law by repeatedly causing great prejudice to the cyclical populations! These are the ones we've been tearing down a few of the many defects and absences we've found in this bill we've analyzed here, but they're sufficient to qualify this text as inadequate for the current state of our continental riverwaters. The BNG Parliamentary Group calls for the withdrawal of the Continental Fisheries Bill because of its disregard for our battered rivers, lakes and wetlands, in which there are fundamental and priority elements to improve, protect and preserve its quality and nature. Because it aims to create an artificial exploitation more concerned of privatizing a public good with tourist intentions, of making restocks and a dream of thinking that we have rivers in envious state of conservation that would be able to satisfy the lie that brings us here. As our rivers are today, it's impossible to make a sustainable and viable use of fishing. While the Autonomic Administration does not assume that our rivers are arteries that oxygenate the territory, they need a real will to look at them, love them, mimals, recover them and protect them. Counselor, they pick up this mass unhindered, turn it back to the craftsman and take it from me again. The oven isn't for cake at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u50	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Non-amendant group, Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Díaz Mouteira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u51	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. The truth is, after listening to Mr. Aranguena and Mr. Rivas, I don't know what to stay with. On the one hand, Mr. Arangüena, a contradictory reflection by his group on this fishing bill and, above all, on that lesson that has just given us as an expert fisherman, which is probably converted into that second contribution which the Socialist Party makes to the conservation of rivers; after the first, it was to throw the wagons from a train to the river. [[Applause]] And then I also keep track of the intervention and, above all, of the poetic-catastrophist vision that makes the nationalist group of our rivers. Well, as a representative of the People's Parliamentary Group, it is up to me to clarify — or at least to try to do so, of course — all the doubts that have led both the Socialist Group and the Nationalist Parliamentary Group to present these amendments to the entire draft law. Of course, the starting point is not appropriate; to begin with the complete rejection of this bill, although there is still that beginning which we are starting today on parliamentary processing. We hope that the dialogue and the search for consensus will be imposed — especially in our spirit — to provide our community, as the Environment Adviser has said, with an instrument that guarantees the reconciliation of recreational sport practice of fishing with conservation, of course, of nature and of biodiversity, fully aware that putting the value of our natural environment is a basic premise for its protection. I'm going to focus on your amendments, because it's a lot to explain and not a little bit of what time is available. Mr. Aranguena, the truth is you're getting into a lot and talking about river fishing; we're talking about continental fishing. It's weird because your group hasn't introduced any amendments to what your name is. You also come to say during your speech that there was no involvement of interested actors or the scientific community, that there were few allegations... Home!, I think about a thousand claims is a considerable number and, above all, it represents a broad public participation. I will not stop at those 108 approaches or opinions in the public consultation procedure, in the hearing process; in the 47 entities and bodies, including members of the Galician Fisheries Committee, or in those practically 617 allegations. And it must also be borne in mind that in these 617 claims there were just 183 that focused on it, which was the ban on lead. Then you have to see all those received at the public information stage, which was 617. So I think it's clearly deduced that there was interest, and a lot. They also question the opportunity of the fishing law after twenty-eight years: that it is unnecessary, that it lacks justification... we must be rigorous. It's been almost thirty years, a full generation, and since you speak as a fisherman, as a fisher and as a specialist, I think that this new text is necessary because there are new situations: there is a climate change that we have to face, droughts, pollution, stealthyness, invasive exotic species and the evolution of fishing activity itself, which has become that source of food for this recreational and sporting activity. And yes, Mr. Arangüena, even if they deny it or do not like it, with this law we also want to ensure what you said: the generational relief; to boost fishing without death; to dynamize rural tourism and also including various measures, which I will not mention because I have just exposed the advisor, such as license exemptions to minors, over 65 or tax exemption, which I think is important in promoting fishing. It also seems that you do not see the necessary measures in this text to regulate, protect and promote the right to continental fishing or its potential as a rural economic engine. So look at Article 2 — of course — the right to exercise fishing. Article 3(b) guarantees equality in access to it. Articles 6 and 7: Promoting cooperation and cooperation mechanisms. Articles 8 to 10: Measures for the promotion, training and research of continental fisheries. Articles 8.2 and 11: measures to promote sport and recreational fishing as a tool for tourism, economic and social development in rural areas. You're also talking about concessions, hydraulic authorizations, what there are, news, your obligations to sustain ecosystems in a sustainable way... No, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, and here I am also going to address the Galego Nationalist Block, which also appeals to this question. We don't go to any more secular legislation in this area, we just follow the doctrine of the Constitutional Court. The provision of exemption from the installation of lifting devices or other alternatives which could be established to ensure the periodic migration of fish along the river courses laid down in Article 12 has as a normative background the provisions of Articles 23 of the 1992 Law and Article 76 of Decree 190/97. The final wording of Article 12.2, as well as the transitional sixth provision, is in line with that indicated by the General Legal Counsel in its report of December 2019, which specifically refers to the doctrine of the Constitutional Court, in which it concerns the need to clarify that the obligation to install removal devices may be enforceable only with regard to the authorizations and concessions granted after the entry into force of the law. The law - also said the Socialist Group - does not introduce new developments in the control of harmful vegetation and waste that affect agricultural fauna and water. These issues, ladies and gentlemen - and I include here again the nationalist group, because it also alludes to them, and so we have talked about the two issues - are regulated in the sectoral water regulations, corresponding to the respective hydraulic administration. A moment ago Mr. Aranguena was talking about the situation of the Furelos River and what he was a mayor and who is now Environmental Counsellor. So today he is ruling with the support of the Socialist Party, of course, and you can go at the time when Mrs. Ángeles Vázquez Mejuto was mayor, and I'm sure he doesn't find any news about mortality during that period. You can go and check it out. [[Applause]] However - I return again to the issue of greenery - the draft law, in Article 12.4, conditions the implementation of greenery to comply with the reference values which are legally determined, collecting the corresponding infringements and penalties without prejudice to the obligation to repair the damage collected in Article 78. The reduction in the amount of penalties for offenders is also criticized. This reduction in what you are talking about is only expected in very serious infringements, ranging from 25.001 to 150,000 euros. This is the only count with regard to the maximum amount provided for in the present law, which has so far been EUR 300,000. And why that reduction? It seems a lie, Mr. Arangüena, that you do not know the principle of proportionality, when it so much argues to the law; a principle of proportionality as set out in Article 29 of Law 40/2015, of the legal regime of the public sector, and in whose virtue the imposition of sanctions by public administrations must observe the appropriateness between the sanction to be imposed and the adequacy, of course, to the seriousness of the fact. But, in addition, that proportionality between damage and fine is guaranteed by the need to repair environmental damage, which can be done simultaneously with the sanctioning procedure. And thirdly, it is also necessary to take into account Law 9/2010 of Galician waters, in whose regime of infringements and sanctions of Title VII, the legal good is to ensure the quality of the waters. As far as minor infringements are concerned, they keep their accounts, suppressing their contents in the category of less serious infringements. In addition, it provides that, together with the penalty, the fishing licence may be carried out or withdrawn and the licence is disabled to obtain it for a period of one year. For serious infringements, the minimum and maximum amounts of EUR 3.001 to EUR 25,000 are also virtually equal. The maximum amount up to now was €10,000, and also the assumptions that would require the withdrawal of the licence and the inability to obtain it for a period of between one year and one day and three years are also collected. The Socialist Group also says that measures are not clearly laid down for the conservation of beds which guarantee the maintenance of their natural conditions. These issues are also regulated in sectoral water regulations, corresponding to their competence to the respective hydraulic administration, without prejudice to the existence of specific provisions in this law, in particular in Article 12, without being able to enter fully into their regulation, because it is a matter in which they converge the powers of different departments of this administration. And it turns out you're also criticising -- that's also what I mean by the nationalist group -- the withdrawal from the Continental Fisheries Management Fund. Look, the resources that would complement the Fund for the Management of Continental Fisheries, from sanctions, compensation, taxes, public prices, are already part of the budgets of the Directorate-General for Natural Heritage for the fulfilment of continental fisheries management orders and for the conservation and recovery of aquatic ecosystems. Creating a fund would increase the administrative burden on the Board, and it would not involve any improvement in the management of these functions. And as far as the troops are concerned for inspection work, which says that there is no summer time, it's not true. Agents are not putting out fires, another thing is that they are, of course, following their functions, regardless of the collaborative attitude that can be taken by these agents and this council in cases of extreme need. It is, at least, curious that in the amendment of the Socialist Group there are some of the main developments in this law: the generational rebound, the impulse of tourism development in rural areas... and they say that there is no justification for this rule, pointing out, moreover, that these are measures that could have been taken earlier. So it seems, at the bottom, to recognize the usefulness and correctness of them. What could have been adapted earlier? Of course I do. The 1992 Law has not been amended so far - we are in it - but not even during the Bipartisan Government, so the momentum of this new law which rejects its amendment remains more than justified. Mr. Rivas, you also say, for your part, that making this law without a conservative and recuperating spirit is absurd. The conservative and healing spirit of the fish wealth of our rivers is present throughout the text. For example, it is present in the orderly and sustainable use of fish resources, in the development and maintenance of indigenous biodiversity, it is also in the forecast of all kinds of measures for its execution. How can it be said that this bill seeks to bring legislation into line with the requirements of trade as well as private holdings, when Article 36 of this law expressly prohibits the marketing of any species from sport fishing or recreational exercise in the continental waters of Galicia? They also turn to an alleged contempt of our rivers, to their conservation, because there is one or two laws, not just 5/2006, to which you refer, and 5/2019, which is, by the way, referred to in articles of this bill: articles 9, 32, 33 and 35. And if we talk about forgetting laws, we also forget a lot of other rules, not only state, but also autonomous and even European ones. But this lack of an appointment does not mean that the provisions of the 2006 Act are not fully compatible and complementary to those of 2019 and those of this bill, although they are laws that obey different competences, they regulate interrelated aspects of each other. I also want to point out in particular that regulation of issues such as water quality, ecological flow or hydrological planning is also subject matter to sectoral regulation, but in this respect we have to say that from 2014 to 2016 80% of the water masses have been considered in good condition and have improved by eleven points in recent years. It must also be said, ladies and gentlemen, that the Hydrographic Confederation, Mr. Aranguena, has something to say. You also urge your government to do its homework, because the Union is doing it. So, I mean, ladies and gentlemen, the requirement, on the other hand, that an orderly and sustainable use of fish resources should be carried out not only in Article 3 but throughout the law. It's not necessary, Mr. Rivas, which appears in Article 1, which already speaks of the object of the law. We have to talk about other aspects of our law, of that coherent and respectful development, of those restockings, which also talk about fishing quotas. If you look at Article 62, you'll see that it's determined and done with native species; you can only do them at the Environmental Council, and with prior planning. Finally, I mean, ladies and gentlemen, there are undoubtedly different ways of dealing with the strategic and regulatory lines to regulate an activity as important as fishing, and we are seeing it in this debate. There is debate and the People's Party, since the Government of Galicia, it is now up to it to adapt the Continental Fisheries Act to the present times. Where I think we all agree, as the advisor pointed out, is the fact that the rivers of Galicia are our natural flag. We agree, they are an essential part of our territory, and as such we must seek sustainable and environmentally friendly practice. We started the parliamentary process today, and finished as it began. I am sure there will be debate in the committee, of course I am sure, but I am also sure that there will be understanding, that there will be agreements, that we will come to transactions, and, of course, that there will be more than one disagreement...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u52	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u53	...as we could see here in matters of debate that we will have. Finally, what I am sure is that with regard to this draft continental fisheries law in Galicia there will be work, dialogue and debate, but we will all get it forward. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Mouteira. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica of amending groups. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr Arangéna Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, Galicia has been, decades ago, a true haven of fishing, and could return to the seal - at least to some extent - if instead of pushing for a law that undermines and tends to dismantle the protection of rivers - which was established in theory and on the role of the 1992 Law - you have in practice complied with that law, fulfilling your obligation to sanction, prevent and improve the situation of river ecosystems, etc., etc., which you have not done at all in these last eleven years. The only interest that Mr. Feijóo showed for river or continental fishing all this time was when in the middle of the pandemic he remembered that the fishermen were a way or a way to confront the central government in his usual line. But, if you want to improve fishing, you're inspired by the Lion's Fisheries Act, for example, by setting an example, which has chosen to take fishing more or less seriously in the last five years and you've seen how the situation of your rivers improved significantly, enormously significant, when ours went radically worse. And that can't be denied to you, put yourself in the way you do, or the lady representing the PP, because that's what anyone who's been fishing for the last 20 years knows what the rivers in our community are. And it was done that I don't speak to you, when I speak of Castile-Leon, of a community governed by another party other than its -- that could, perfectly; there are other examples -- but I put you as an example what your partymates do. Talk to them, maybe learn something. And it would be important if he did, because the conservation of river ecosystems is, not only a source of life, but it can also be a source of wealth through rural tourism associated with fishing. She says to the PP representative that no news came out during the time that Mrs. Mayor of Melide was counsellor. It's not true, it's not true! The Counsellor allowed, first as mayor in two legislates, and then as advisor, that the Furelos River, of high ecological value and within the Natura Network, by the way, had been repeatedly contaminated by the defect of debugger in Melide's business park. That's right, and he suffered trout mortality, suffered ecological deterioration and became a shadow of what he was. [[Applause]] Counsellor, I put in your knowledge - if you don't know it, which I don't think is the case - that there is a demolition report, absolutely demolishing, of Seprona, in what you're talking about, among other public representatives, that describes the passivity of the Town Hall and of the Union itself in the face of the repeated greens throughout its whole stage and that you think there are signs of default prevarication. I'm not saying that, a report from Seprona, which details the successive green episodes to the Furelos River since 2005. You've been since that year and for eight years the mayor of Melide, and for two environmental advisors. So, putting it to you to look after the rivers, despite what's done to the lady representative of the PP, it's like putting the fox in charge of the chickens. [[Applause]] I encourage you to answer me, when I have occasion, to the three questions I have asked you, but I ask you a quarter: was it you -- I don't know, I'm wrong, but, of course, that wasn't news -- to the Eume River since the episode of pollution occurred in recent times, which has been extending for about a month? Look, Counselor, the necessity of this law is not justified at all. All those reasons or circumstances that you have listed can be addressed by the law in force, or by modifying your regulatory development. We have synthetically realized that this law can only have two purposes: one, favoring the great law-breakers, which are the contaminant companies and the concessionaires of hydroelectric concessions, or still omiting -- as they have been doing over the past eleven years -- their obligation to protect and improve river ecosystems. And, Madam People's Party representative, when you speak of the Mino-Sil Hydrographic Confederation, I have to inform you, if you don't know, that you are -- this Hydrographic Confederation -- recovering concessions from the flow of rivers to the public -- and it's making the difference -- just the opposite -- from what the Galician Waters does; so I think it's wrong to appreciate it. [[Murmurs.]] In short, this is an unnecessary law. What they should do, if they want to recover the rivers of Galicia, is take seriously the question and enforce the law that already exists, which can be improved in many respects, but not make a new law that does it is to relax the environmental obligations, relax the sanctioning regime, by the way, not only in very serious infringements, but in general...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u56	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u57	...about everything if we consider the effect of inflation. And don't talk to me about proportionality, because proportionality was already in the Law of 1992 and in its successive updates as far as sanctions were concerned. I'm done. You withdraw this law and protect the rivers of Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Aranguena. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We drink water from rivers and streams, the catch of water from many municipalities, even small, it's due to pumping stations, we take water to drink and we throw what comes out of the poor debuggers in the same river. Are we all right, Counselor? Here's the reason for our insistence on restoring and preserving our rivers. It's not just about fishing, it's also because since BNG we're not for a future of bottled mineral water, being a territory where water is a major marker and conformer element of our existence. The possibility of full fishing is the best reference to water health; if the icticula species live normally, if there are frogs, eagles, salmon, pineapple and other fauna, we too will live. If they die, we'll be sentenced to society. This is the serious problem, and it's not catastropheism, it's reality. The one about you, of course, is not catastrophy, no, it's catastrophic. Denying the evidence does not save political responsibility, to be asked by the Furelo River — it has been cherished — to consent from the council of many years of the PP and from the Board of Dumps and the absence of a debugger that could be, and you have taken good care of turning it into mayoralism in a bold way. Their irresponsible treatment of these issues is fear and leads to crime. That's clear; yes, that's clear. Because anyone who apologizes and does not act with the duty to do so in the face of environmental crimes becomes a useful accomplice in the repetition of these facts. And that's true, they are true in the spills in the parish of Grixalba. It is true that they will pour directly to the river Mandeo; to the river Mandeo, no, to the two rivers of head of the river Mandeo. And they didn't do anything, and he was denounced for active and passive! And they didn't do anything! And they keep pouring debugging mud directly to the streams. And down there, in the Teixeiro prison, they drink the water from that river, and the industrial polygon also takes the water from that river, and in Aranga also takes the water from that river. This is reality, and this is what we denounce. The troops who must ensure compliance with the rules are few and are not clothed with the necessary authority. I'm not telling you about the pursuit of minor offences, such as the measure of catches, fishing gear or schedules, onions... no, I'm telling you about the spills, the analysts, the complaints that are forgotten at the bottom of the boxes of the Environmental Counsellor when the fish is fat. And here nothing arises, in this law, to continue as if nothing had happened; while dead trouts don't come down and sing a lot. Not so many years ago, ladies and gentlemen, our rivers bore carbide, leeks, hooks, powders, transmals and they could, and could, re-emerge themselves without much difficulty; today the cancer is in, the waters do not withstand the aggressions that you consent to. And I say once and a thousand times that you consent because you don't act, because you don't act! Because it's a business of friends. And you have to say it clearly because, if you don't, I'm missing the truth and I'm missing my people, and I can't afford to do it. I -- I didn't tell you -- I was a fisherman, of those who got bored; I'm bored that his heart was glued every time he went down to the river, you know? It caught my heart in the chest to see the river deteriorate year by year, as calls, complaints and everything continued in it, all except the river and its life. Eucalyptus up to the same little beer, in the middle of the river not because he could not plant them; the allotted waters of spills and eutrophication, and all that. Look, for the sake of our continental waters, they put themselves into operation and apply the laws and stop protecting those who are seriously polluted. They remove this law, they rely on reality and act accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u60	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Comprehensive discussion of the draft Law on the Management of the Territory of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u61	We are now debating the draft law on the management of Galician territory. This bill has been amended to the full of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block in Wales. For the presentation of the bill, Mrs. Ángeles Vázquez Mejuto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u62	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce the second of the legislative texts which today bring to the House the Environmental, Territorial and Living Council. After discussing the Continental Fisheries Act, we began the debate on the whole of which will be the new Law on the Management of Galician Territory, restarting the processing initiated in January this year and which was suspended due to the election campaign. We have had this whole debate in Parliament, but I would like to stress again the importance of the text and this text for the Greeks and the Greeks. The future Land Management Act updates the current legislation, which already has twenty-five years old, Law 10/1995. After a quarter of a century in which he has changed and continues to change Galicia and society, our community needs a simpler, up-to-date normative text and, at the same time, an efficient text. The territory is our most precious, the support in which we have developed all our activities, and that is why we need a text that allows us to act with the maximum guarantees and that it bets on the protection of the soil, its conservation, but also its position in value. For all this, the law contains a series of goals that seek to improve the quality of life of the Greeks and the Greeks, such as achieving a balanced development for the whole of the Galician community, ensuring the accessibility of all citizens to all infrastructures and services, improving the relationship of the rural world, rural development as well as urban, betting on sustainable economic development, taking advantage of and valuing the opportunities offered by the territory and protecting the values it presents, both natural and cultural. Hence the importance of this law, which simplifies and quickens urban planning to avoid possible imbalances, improve territorial coordination, which is fundamental. And it follows the path begun with the drafting of the Land Law and its regulation of more simple, useful, efficient and also practical regulations. Without a doubt, the processing of this text is another milestone in the work carried out by the Government of Galicia in the last decade to modernize and update the urban body of our autonomous community, and it will complete the instruments necessary for sustainable and respectful urbanism, adding to the milestones in urbanism achieved in the last decade and which included the Land Management Guidelines, the Land Management Plan, the Land Law and the Development of its Regulation, the Intervention Guides in the Territory, the Landscape Catalogs, the Autonomic Basic Plan, the Municipal Basic Plans, the Landscape Pacts and the Technical Urban Planning Standards. In short, it is a law that responds to three major objectives: no general planning council, facilitates orderly and sustainable development of the natural environment and the protection of the landscape; fundamental. That's why we bet on their participation in their processing, and so in the public information process this text was forwarded to a total of 300 entities. Two hundred and forty-nine allegations were received, of which a total of one hundred and thirteen were estimated, in whole or in part; that is, 45% were estimated. Which allowed the text drafted by the Environmental, Territorial and Living Council to be enriched in this way. The Territorial Management Act sets out four territorial management instruments: the Territorial Management Guidelines, the Territorial Plans... these are divided into integrated and special, the most significant of which are integrated the Coastal Management Plan, the POL, and as a special highlight of those applied to a specific area such as the Eume Integrated Territorial Plan or what we are currently processing from San Fiz de Chantada. Sectoral plans, such as the Plan of Wind or the Plan of Business Areas of Galicia, or projects of self-interest, that replace sectoral projects of supra-municipal impact and regulate the expansion of large companies or large infrastructures, such as the expansion of hospitals. As an example is that of the Coruña or Pontevedra. And they replace sectoral projects of supramunicipal incidence. As far as the guidelines are concerned, they do not vary greatly with regard to the 1995 law; they are instruments of a global nature. It is the general framework of reference that we have on the territory, and it lays down spatial rules for implementation, uses and activities, always in agreement and taking into account the social, economic, cultural and environmental needs. The second of the instruments is territorial plans, which differ between integrated and special, depending on their larger or smaller scale of territorial condition. The integrateds allow them to organize sub-municipal geographic areas with homogeneous characteristics or those which by their size or functional relationship require a planning of land use, productive activities, infrastructure or equipment. And in the case of specials, they provide response and support to special field planning requirements taking into account different characteristics: morphological, agricultural, livestock, forest or even ethnographic requirements, which require unitary consideration. The third of the instruments is the sectoral plans, which include a novelty: it extends its scope to make it the whole autonomous community, and it also establishes its definition with respect to the law of 1995. The goal is to achieve better management of the activities that can be implemented in our territory. It should be noted that these plans can only be of public initiative, the administration that determines where the activities are installed, and that they are redefined as instruments that regulate the implementation of sectoral activities, such as waste management, protected housing or supra-municipal equipment. And finally, there's the fourth management tool that contemplates LOT, which is the projects of self-interest, which replace sectoral projects of supra-municipal impact. This is the only direct intervention instrument in the territory that will serve to plan and execute concrete actions, implement urban appropriations, create soil for protected housing, create soil for economic activities, among others. They must be justified that they transcend the municipal domain because of their territorial, economic, social or even cultural impact, and that they have no prediction or accommodation in the planning of the city. In addition, they can be public or private, and they can develop effective sectoral plans or be autonomous. As a novelty, his statement of environmental impact expires at the age of three. In addition, the law includes the creation of the Territory Planning and Urban Planning Register in Galicia, which sets out the rules of greater legal certainty, transparency and also accessibility for all citizens. In this log, all land management instruments are inserted before their entry into force, thus avoiding a lot of problems that could have occurred before. That is to say, for a management instrument to enter into force will be a requirement for its registration in the said register, so it will be a guarantee of legal security, since we will be before the final version of that instrument, and it will be to which both the administrations and that citizen will have access that way. We also bet on this law for agility and administrative simplification. The new Land Management Act is set by administrative simplification, both in the number of figures and in the course of its processing. In this way, a single processing procedure is established for all land management instruments, distinguishing between those who undergo regular or simplified strategic environmental assessment. The aim is to integrate the environmental procedure into the process of the management instrument, avoiding having to resort to various rules to identify which procedure is applicable to it. This means it's a clearer law, a more useful law, a more practical law, and it makes its application easier. Improving and at the same time giving greater responsibility among different administrations, but giving life to the municipalities and avoiding duplication of proceedings as well as procedures. In short, the new Land Management Act we are discussing today in this plenary aims to correct errors that have been detected during the years of application of the current law, trying to improve it and provide the Community with a useful tool to carry out its management. As it could not be otherwise, this review and update was also used to incorporate into the content of the law criteria such as environmental sustainability, the protection of landscape values, the fight against climate change, the guarantee of universal accessibility of services as well as infrastructures and rather the consideration of the soil as well exhausted and limited. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we are very aware of the importance of the new Land Management Act for our community. And since June we have argued that urban legislation is a guarantee of success to achieve that the land management of each municipality is coherent and equal for citizens of the municipality itself, but also for citizens of the rest of Galicia, of the contiguous. There is also a need for supra-municipal instruments to guarantee equal opportunities at the level of the autonomous community in order to correct possible imbalances resulting from the variety that our territory presents. That's why the future Land Management Act adapts to Galicia's territorial evolution and its current reality, and presents itself as a way to ensure social cohesion, the improvement in quality of life not only for the present generations, but also for future generations. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u63	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The role of defence of amendments to the totality of return and positioning with respect to the bill. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. Good morning, Counselor. Thank you for your presentation. In any case, we believe that land management policies are the basis for building a country; social, economic and environmental priorities determine the organization of our territory. In Galicia, since 2009, you have gradually forgotten the idea of making a country, you have forgotten the idea of having a pact for non-partisan territory and able to lay the foundations for development in the medium term. The Land Management Guidelines, although they lost some of the strengths of the initial documents, drawn up during President Touriño's presidency, set up a much more attractive starting document than the laws that developed later, where the liberal view of the soil became more present. In any case, the failure of Galician Land Law in 2016 was demonstrated by the shortage of new planning processes in Galicia. Let us remember that the legislative derogation from the Soil Law reached, inter alia, Law 9/2002, of urban management and protection of the rural environment of Galicia; Law 6/2008, of urgent housing measures, and partly Law 7/2008, of protection of the landscape of Galicia. But in the recent memoir of the Galician Parliament of the Tracking Plan for the Territorial Sustainability Land Management Guidelines of 2019 — we remember that it aims to carry out a continuous evaluation of the territorial and urban planning instruments developed by these Land Management Guidelines — we see that in terms of the general municipal management plans approved or adapted to the territorial model defined in those Land Management Guidelines or the development of the Territory were approved forty-nine and ninety-nine are still being processed, which, according to its own memory, would place 43% of the population, 41% of the supplencies of the autonomous community and 44.2% of the Galician municipalities that would count on an adapted plan or adaptation process, which is the majority. It does not seem precisely that regulatory instability contributes to achieving the objective of having plans adapted to the light of what has been done in eight years. And we were talking about a rule with a rank of law, that of Galician soil, that didn't give the expected fruit. And it's not that we don't have regulations, we have even sixteen standards integrating what we might call the "Código urbanistique de Galicia." First, this law which is intended to repeal, Law 10/1995, of the territory of Galicia; Law 6/2007, of urgent measures in the area of spatial and coastal management of Galicia; Law 7/2008, of protection of the landscape of Galicia; Law 10/1995, of the territory of Galicia; Law 10/1995, of the order of the territory of Galicia; Law 6/2007, of urgent measures relating to the land and coastal land management of Galicia; Law 7/2008, of protection of the landscape of Galicia; Law 7/2008, of protection of the landscape of Galicia; Law 4/2012, of the metropolitan area of Vigo — and I do not want to bring Vigo precisely the collation in this whole, which is a cause of confrontation; Law 2/2017, Law 2/2016, of the territory of Galicia, of Galicia, the grounds of Galicia, the grounds of Galician City of Galicia, the grounds of Galicia; Law 3/2016, the Law 3/2016/2017/2007; Law 7/2017, the Act 2/2017, of the Act of the Act of the Act of the Act of the act of the act of the European Statute of the European Statute of the European Statute of the Agency, the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of business of business, the implementation of business, the implementation of business initiative of business initiative; decision, the Act, and of the Act of the implementation of the Act of business initiative of the Government of the Government of the Act; decision, and of the Act, and of the Act of the Act of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Act of the Government of the Government of the Act; 29/ rotation of; 29/ rotation of the Government of; 29/ rotation of; 29/ rotation of; 29/G, and decision, and decision, and decision, and decision, and decision of the Office of; 29/ rotation of the legislative, and decision of the status of the status of the status of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the European, the European, the Office of the European, the European, the European, the European, the European, the European, the European, the European, the European, the European, the Office of the European, the European, the European, the European, the European, the European, the European, After this comprehensive listing of Galician urban legislation, we understand that the reasons for the need for a new law are not sufficiently enabled, since the mere fact of more than two decades of the current law is not sufficient argument, because there are many other earlier autonomous laws that do not necessarily need to be replaced. Nor should the changes made in existing urban legislation cause a new Management Act to exist in Galicia, because this should operate precisely in the opposite direction, because I believe that first are laws and then regulatory developments. By the enumeration I made a moment ago, I think we have enough regulatory development. And also, the theoretical need to face new objectives should in any event be preceded by an analysis of the results of the current Land Management Act, both in terms of its degree of development and application as well as in terms of the vigency or capacity of the land management instruments it contains, which is not addressed either. It is also necessary to argue which questions would be those which cannot be addressed within the framework of the current legislation. Without that previous analysis of the current law that the Galician Union avoids to carry out, it is inconsistent to motivate the justification sufficiently for its modification or substitution, and more so when in fact most of the aspects highlighted in the bill's explanatory statement are already included in the 2011 approval of the Territory's own Management Guidelines. So much so that even the Galician Union has recognized that the territorial development model collected in the current Land Management Act — which is intended to be repealed — and in the 2011 Land Management Guidelines is flexible and counts on a journey, or when it highlights the usefulness of certain existing management instruments that are now intended to be eliminated. So it seems that this bill could be a smoke curtain in which to hide the lack of management and the inability of the Galician Union on this fundamental issue, making its ineptitude evident in the possibilities of still-vigorating development — I repeat — of each of the figures covered by the current Land Management Act. We are surprised that the Council of Galicia now argues that certain instruments containing the current Land Management Act are useless and opts for its derogation, when it was precisely the self-government itself who disagreed to promote them, showing its own ineffectiveness that now attempts to transact in obsolescence of the legislative text. A bill that, on the other hand, covers important and concrete changes that need the legal body to be brought into practice, such as the problematic introduction of new figures — as you referred to — and how we constitute projects of self-interest. New instruments that are formulated in a way other than those of current plans and projects of supra-municipal impact, setting up as direct management instruments by the Galician Union, which is made possible — and this is obvious — that if you harm the principle of municipal authority, and pose a threat to the whole territory, whatever the soil qualification, even for that with special protection. While it is the finding of the lack of guidance and management inability demonstrated in recent years for strategic planning and land management by the Autonomous Government, when an option is now promoted that confuses regulatory flexibility with liberalization and transitionality, and when in the current urban or industrial legislation there are figures to come to enable certain projects to be implemented. Even so, the decision to make a new legal text, the project does not take full advantage of the opportunity to potentiate issues that appear as guidelines for sustainable development, rational use and protection of the environment and territorial balance, and which should include with clearer criteria for sustainability energy saving, territorial regeneration, low environmental landscape impact activities and on territorial resources, the environment or landscape. Questions all these should be used to place territorial planning in the new technological and food context, by faincaping essential aspects such as health and well-being, since the references to these aspects are merely expositive and theoretical, leaving their real potential voided by the loss of operational instruments that the bill nullifies. And the bill also does not introduce, as usual, any kind of real commitment or future obligation on the part of the Government of Galician Union, with proclaimed objectives that contrast with the amount of public expenditure actually devoted to matters related to the territorial management of Galicia in the last decade. Counsellor, this text does not seem to establish as a guiding principle the right to equality on the part of persons with disabilities through the promotion of personal autonomy and universal accessibility, eradicating any form of discrimination in this regard. As for social and economic cohesion and the perspective of gender, it does not consider essential elements such as interrelationship, proximity and combination of uses to confluence the four spheres of the daily route: production, reproduction, politics and staff, and to give them the same value. Sustainability as an axis that transversally permeates all urbanism that must take care of the environment, water, energy, pollution, soil, waste, natural environment, green areas or natural spaces. It doesn't employ the concept of a city caretaker as an urban model; that is, urban space, mobility, public transport, accessibility, security and equipment are dependent on people and everyday life. Nor does it guarantee the right of information to citizenship and affected groups, nor does it promote citizen participation in all phases, with particular care to include both parity and diversity in all its aspects. As for citizen participation, the process should be instrumentalized through public participation plans, which should contain a number of clear elements, such as the identification of social agents and relevant citizenship, the summary of the most important management proposals, the memory of viability and economic sustainability, the methodology of dissemination and participation tools and so forth. Finally, Counsellor, the Drafting Officer of the Territorial Management Guidelines, we believe that it should be in conjunction with the previous reports and documents that have been used for their elaboration to be forwarded to the Galician Parliament for its knowledge. It's not just a matter of assessing memories of the assessment of urban legislation and its implementation. And finally, we are particularly concerned about the disappearance of the territorial Institute of Studies in the text. It seems necessary for a body which has lent — and here I have many times recognised — a fundamental service to the territorial management of this autonomous community to contain in the text a specific paragraph. So we would like all these aspects that I just pointed out along with others that I don't have time to include in a legal text, which — I repeat — we consider unnecessary. That's why we're going to ask this camera to return the bill to the Government of Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u65	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Fernández Gómez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u66	Thank you, President. The momentum of a new Land Management Act should, firstly, be accompanied logically by a reflection on the limitations of current legislation, its degree of development and its impact after twenty-five years of application of the first and, in addition, the only Land Management Act. The logic would, as I say, be a reflection that would justify the reform of the law. On the other hand, today, we are presenting here with a superficial evaluation, which focuses solely on administrative procedures, but overlooks the most fundamental and transcendental implications of the Land Management Act in territorial planning. And this is what you do here today because it's the typical case of counter-reformist myopia. The bureaucratic agility is presented as the foundation of reform; the whole problem lies only in bureaucratic rigidities, which on the other hand previously created the administration itself. You put that problem in front of you, but through the back door, at the bottom, what you're planning to pull out a whole schedule of big-threatening counter-reforms. This is the typical case — as I say — of calculated myopia. And I think it shows that it's a political cowardice to come up here and really defend what you call "projects of self-interest," which are actually the real leitmotiv of this legal reform. If the fundamental problem, Counsellor, was a matter of agitating proceedings, the Council would have as easily as providing more staff and more resources to the offices of the Council, and that would have a solution. But since you're not going to do any analysis of the current legislation, they're going to make us an evaluation of their development. This law of 1995, which is still in force, is a law with some conceptual precariousness, especially as it relates to sub-regional scale policies. But what stands out in particular from the application of this law is the fact that some of the planning instruments that it foresees have never been developed in twenty-five years of vigency. If we compare with the different European models of land management, we note that there are some countries in which economic planning may be more prevalent, and in other cases greater prevalence of physical planning, but always with a certain integral vision. However, only those sectoral plans were developed here. Let's review: In twenty-five years only a single land management guidelines were developed, and for that they had to spend sixteen years, and to end up being mere declarations of intent. In twenty-five years there wasn't a single plan of sub-regional scale developed as an integrated territorial plan, for metropolitan areas or for comarcas; nothing. The only thing that has been developed was a Coastal Management Plan, which, on the other hand, is a demonstration of the conceptual lea that they have in relation to the role of each instrument. In twenty-five years there was no single physical media management plan developed. In twenty-five years, no coordinated adaptation plan was developed. In view of this, a total of three hundred and ninety-six sectoral plans of supra-municipal impact were developed. The result is that land management has been reduced in this country to the implementation of activities and infrastructures in a fragmented manner and to the preponderance and exclusivity of a sectoral vision that is imposed on the integral management of the territory. We can therefore conclude that the fundamental problem of the previous law is that no mechanisms were foreseen to force the planning instruments that the law itself established. That's why it's been twenty-five years without any progress in land management in our country. Therefore, starting from this reflection, a fundamental key to legal reform would be to correct this aspect. What do they do in the new legal reform they propose here today? Don't touch any of this, because the objective is precisely to perpetuate that ejaculation. The fundamental objective is not to develop the planning of the territory in our country, because you underestimate the planning of the territory, they're only interested in facilitating the mobilization of private sectors. We consider this to be one of the fundamental issues. So since the BNG we have presented among the numerous partial amendments that we have presented a specific one to set a time horizon of ten years, so that in this country we have all over the territory, in each territorial area each integrated territorial plan. And this should be a strategic goal for any government that actually creates in planning policies. I suppose, Counsellor, that if the goal of the Executive is not to continue boycotting the development of sub-regional planning, you will have no problem accepting these amendments; that if the goal is to avoid the fragmentation of the planning they will be willing. Are you ready, Counsellor, to accept these amendments and establish a ten-year time horizon for this country to have all the integrated territorial projects for all metropolitan areas and regions? [[Applause]] A new law that comes to replace a law of twenty-five years ago must also have as its objective to respond to a territorial reality that has changed substantially. Today in Galicia we have a greater territorial imbalance between the coast and the interior, a demographic downturn, the challenge of responding to the technological revolution and the social and economic and cultural crises that will lead to, problems arising from the organization's dissemination, territorial fragmentation, responding to climate change challenges, increasing public participation quotas or integrating a feminist vision into territorial planning. In addition, this could be an opportunity to incorporate new principles that are being worked on in planning in those countries with a greater urban and planning tradition. However, in this project there is nothing of this, there is no vocation of updating itself, there is no desire to lend itself to the general interest, only the goal of pulling projects of self-interest and power through these reclassification and reclassification alone. But, of course, this was a bit of a shame, making a copy and taking the previous law and adding the projects of self-interest would become a little rough. And they had the great idea of making a legal hat. First of all, the territorial management instruments are practically unaffected, they're the same. They just make a couple of names, we've renamed the "physical media management projects" as "special territorial projects", we've deleted the PCA — which was a thing of the law of comarcallization and that you've been apart for some time now that it's been discarded. But let's say that the framework of the law instruments remains exactly the same. So you don't notice that the only thing they're getting into is self-interest projects, what they do is they add a whole new first part to this law. It's pure literature, and they have a lot of nice and interesting titles: sustainable territorial development, territorial rationality, social cohesion, gender perspective, participation... a lot of literature. It's a whole series of general layouts that actually have no normative character. I'm going to give you some examples. They talk about including the gender perspective, but then the instruments don't show the gender perspective. They talk about including citizen participation, but then in the instruments the only thing that appears is the usual procedure of allegations. They talk about sustainable development, but then they look for ways to do simplified environmental assessment procedures. The chapter of Galicia's rural system, which is directly lost in a mysterious limbo of law and never appears again. And so with all that piece of literature. Therefore, this law consists of a first empty marketing step and a second part which is essentially the same as the previous law, with the only novelty of self-interest projects and the ability to classify and reclassify the ground. So we're going to get into what really is at the heart of this law and what's really motivating its processing. Self-interest projects are timely projects that will not require any sectoral plan; the only condition that should meet are the Land Management Guidelines. But for that, you're already taking care that the guidelines are as loose as possible and that they are not binding. These self-interest projects can also be developed by private initiative. For its approval, an express procedure is available in which it is only necessary to have a declaration of self-interest, which will issue the Board of Trustees, and with this it will be able to reclassify and re-qualify the ground. And in all this procedure, the municipalities concerned are given hearing process but there is no ability to determine anything. This means that the only instrument that you want to develop is a mechanism to promote speculation, urban ballast and the pollution of territorial resources in this country. The only instrument with which the land management will operate in our country is that a private operator can push the transformation of soil, for example, non-urbanizable to promote any activity only with which it is declared of self-interest. [[Applause]] And arrived, by the way, at this point, that literature of the first part that spoke of sustainability and social cohesion has already been lost. Counselor, I'd like you to answer: What's going to come out of this Russian roulette from the planning? For example, a company that intends to exploit a mine at some point in our territory could have the declaration of self-interest on the part of the Board of Trustees, yes or no? For example, a private university that wanted to be located in a soil where the general plan would not allow it, could you get the declaration of self-interest and requalify yourself, yes or no? It's just that what you're thinking here is very serious. This law really poses a huge danger to the natural resources of this country and it also enables the speculators to be safe, and especially those private companies that are trying to drill the state of well-being into health, education, and that are turning it into a niche of business in these days of unrestricted neoliberalism. The adoption of this law with the inclusion of this new instrument means decreeing the death of territorial planning in our country. This is not a new law, but it's a great counter-reform that leads us to the zero point of spatial planning in Galicia. That's why this law will count on our greatest rejection. Counsellor, do you really defend this police and ballistic mechanism? Which country would you like to leave for the next generations, Counselor? [[Applause]] With this bill, in addition, they decree the disappearance of public interest and ultimately independent projects of any planning. What they push should not bear the name of a planning instrument because it is only a mechanism to legitimate the political arbitrariness that will execute the people sitting on the board. And that's what you call "declaration of self-interest" is just going to be your legal backing. [[Applause]] And so, finally, the People's Party achieves its great goal: all power for the Council of Unity and no mechanism of counterweight, no previous rules, no general plans, no minimum criteria. The people who sit on the board will increase their power as negotiators and mediators with private companies. This is undoubtedly a great law to expand the rotational doors. And in this bill it makes sense what they said from Greenalia when they took Mato and said it was a great value because it had a contrasting experience in the new models of good government. These are their models of good governance: they leave the rest of the instruments inoperative and activate a mechanism of spole and express ballast. They should fall in shame by presenting this bill, which the only ambition you have is to convert those who sit on the board of assembly into the winners of large companies. This country gives you exactly the same. [[Applause]] And I'm done. As you see, I focused my intervention on projects of autonomous interest, because I'm Troy's horse of land management, because it's very serious what you intend to approve in this law, we could talk long and tender about the rest of the law, the literary part -- which looks a little bit like conceptual Frankenstein -- or maybe a sum of fashion terms that are put there because you have to inflate the law to camouflage and above all to distract the attention of projects of self-interest, and that you can come here today to cover the file. We could also talk about the different architectures to articulate the territorial planning instruments that would fall into our country. But maybe talking about all things would give them the chance to get up here and not talk about projects of self-interest. Counselor, get up here and answer us and explain how these self-interest projects are going to improve our country. And, above all, the most intriguing question: how will self-interest projects respond to all that literature in the first part? That's the great mystery.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández Gómez. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Non-amendant group. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u68	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. Good morning, Counselor, and thank you very much for explaining the law and bringing it in. I would like to begin by stressing the importance of spatial planning for any society, but in a special way for Galicia, where the territory and landscape are key elements of country. This law sets the general criteria for ordering activities on the ground — which I want to remember is a very limited and sensitive good — to make sustainable, balanced and safeguarding natural values. Concepts that impregnate the entire law from the explanatory statement to the final provisions, completely in all articles. I would also like to congratulate you because, as you said, the renewal of these legislative texts is closed, and I believe that urban planning is updating and modernizing obsolete and missing laws. Landscape care has always been one of the central aspects of government policies in Feijóo, but at the moment it is one of the four major axes of Galicia's 2020-2030 strategy, is green Galicia, in line with European and world policies. They are especially important and transcendent to Feijóo all aspects related to this spatial planning and green Galicia. This law pursues these objectives in relation to and in line with the objectives of sustainable development of the United Nations, but also with the European Green Pact, with the global challenge against climate change, as expressly - we seem to read different laws - is placed in the articulate of this law. So society has changed a lot in these twenty-five years of law, but if there's one subject that I think has changed, it's the demand that society makes us about the requirements for concern about climate change or environmental issues. I believe that this alone, only this — part of all the things that I will continue to say — justifies the updating of this law. Only to conform the law to this policy, to this Green Commitment of Galicia and of Galician society, I believe that it justifies it enough; in addition to doing, as I said, a more useful, practical and efficient regulation, because that administrative simplification is also important, is an important demand for better coordination and comprehensive planning of our territory. The law — it would be another of the reasons why change would also justify — meets the principles of gender equality, equality between men and women, and expressly defines it as: "... moving forward towards a city of care" — yes, Mr. Alvarez — towards a city of care where the elements must care for people and their diversity. It's also specifically about diversity, as well as accessibility. The perspective of gender gives the view that the territory, cities and the way we order the landscape must pursue the idea of generating environmentally sustainable, humanly accessible spaces to improve in this way the quality of life of our society in all its complexity, in all its aspects. Therefore, congratulations, advisor, for incorporating these — I believe — social demands, these — I believe — answers that require us jointly to society. And I think any of them justify this update. But also, in other matters, we said that the whole environmental procedure is integrated into the process of the instrument — also another reason enough for this update. But in addition, environmental control is reinforced and environmental control is improved — another justification for bringing this law. A single procedure is established for all land-based management documents, and is incorporated into a single procedure with the modification of the planning. So I think that these are more than enough reasons to bring about this change and, therefore, I think it makes little sense — I think we will talk about the amendments in particular — to bring these amendments to the whole. The opposition, of course, could not stop using this moment to come with their mantras and their invented accounts, and obviously had to bring them in. But I have the impression — after listening to them, Mr. Álvarez and Mrs. Fernández — that we either read different texts or do not know the current law. Because the truth is that some of the things... I'm going to try to crack some of these things. By the way, see if I can stop at everything they pointed at. They said that coordinated action plans and physical media management plans were eliminated. Well, yes, as the rest of the autonomous communities do with the latest laws. Because in another autonomous legislation, or, for example, in environmental laws protecting natural spaces or landscapes, we already have documents that allow us to do this, such as natural resources management plans and PRUX. We can make these documents perfectly from those laws. Similarly, the law itself also allows special territorial plans to make these types of documents. So we don't have to keep having figures when we have the other laws and if they're developing, in addition, since the Environmental Council. They're talking about coordinated action programmes. Look, they are documents of a mere investor and administrative nature, not planning the territory. That's why they're getting rid of the sort laws of the territory generally. But in addition, this law includes in all documents economic memories with plans, phases and programming. This is actually incorporating into coordinated action plans investments and phases within the document itself — another improvement of the law. They say they don't respect municipal autonomy. I'm here the only thing I can understand is that they don't know the current law, because it doesn't change at all for anything. On the contrary, here what you're trying to do is a more efficient, more effective law, which you do is minimize the burden on municipalities and on public resources. Let's see, what does today's law say? Let's get this straight first. All the laws of land management of all colors, of all governments, are imposed on urban laws, that's the concept. All of them! There's none -- tell me one -- that's not the case. All of them, of all colors, be it PSOE, nationalists, independentists, all of them! In addition, all these laws say the same thing, they say that the sectoral project is approved and that after that project... the current law says, "...and then it will update the general plan of the municipality." What's happened in these years? That the municipalities had no interest in updating those documents because they already licensed and reported on the sectoral plan or the sectoral project. So, except for the technicians of the municipality itself, the outsiders were left defenceless. What does this document say? That they can and should be treated in parallel, so that the promoter body will also do the work that was asked of the council before. But he was already imposing himself on the Town Councils, with this law and all the land management laws. And they were already making those changes, any of the laws they know in Spain. So, I think there is no change in that aspect and, of course, we must remember that these changes will go only in the areas that relate to the project, the territorial document. But let me also remind you of one thing. Because, of course, when we hear these things here... most of the sectoral projects they talk about are in the development of sectoral plans, such as industrial soils, or because of express demand from the municipalities, which are unable to develop industrial activities, equipment or polygons, and which they ask the Board, as they are not able to do the urban things, to do the work that they are not able to do. They're asking for it. Right now, my municipality, the one in the Coruña, is asking for two sectoral projects: the City of ICT — please ask the Board to do the City of ICT — and the new CHUAC. Then we'll talk about PIA, about Plans of Autonomic Interest, but how do you think Montecelo was — or what is going to be done —? Not for the amendment of the plan, which has been in Pontevedra for 30 years — since 1990 — without changing itself, thirty years!, before the BNG arrived — which, by the way, is taking up a plan of other colors. Why didn't you make a change in thirty years so you could make Montecelo? No, come to Junta and make one of those sectoral projects that bother them so much! And finally, Mr. Álvarez, of course we have to talk about Vigo, of course we have to talk about Vigo! Because the last approved was the Vigo Technology and Logistics Park — in April of this year — because, if not, Vigo — which has no general plan — would be without the technology park. This is what people don't tell them: that the councils where they govern are the first to ask that these documents be made, because they are unable to manage and carry their own competences. But, of course, Mrs Fernández seems to me to have little difficulty in managing — I'm sorry to say — because all the speech goes against the creation of what they call the new figure of the PIA, of projects of self-interest. Look, everything you're going to be able to do with the PIA is already being done with the unplanned sectoral project, everything! Or how do you think the Carballo polygon was made, the county ruled by the BNG? How did we do that? With a sectoral project! How did we do the hospitals? How do we make all these great equipment in Galicia? Thank you for having this tool. But, of course, the general hypocrisy is that when the Bipartite ruled, he used it proportionally more often than the People's Party governments. That's hypocrisy. [[Applause]] And they're perfectly useful tools. By the way, they are not only collected in the law, but that, and can read the exclusive determination 10.1.2 of the guidelines themselves, are laid down in the guidelines themselves because, of course, no one can foresee everything that may appear with so many years of anticipation. But in addition, this falls all by the soles, that is, all the argumentation was because the projects of self-interest, which — I say — are not new, exist in all autonomous communities and also exist in Galicia, which we are dealing with. You've read the report before — I don't know which of the two — of all those that have been dealt with these years, also during the BNG. But besides, to keep things going, they said the Territory Institute of Studies disappears. It is true that it does not appear in this law, because it was regulated in Law 6/2007, and everything except Chapter III is eliminated. Read the derogatory provision. The Territory Institute is still in force. Technically — but this is not about debate at all — we can talk, and so we did in a partial amendment, of bringing it from Law 6/2007 to this. Well, these aren't things of a whole debate. Look, they're talking about the failure of the law. But a number of land management guidelines made; a POL with United Nations awards -- in addition to the two holistic and cross-sectional facts as they call for -- various sectoral plans for many of the strategic sectors, of which the sectoral projects are then developed, and dozens of sectoral projects that they used and which were used to make these great equipment, the large infrastructures and the large services for these municipalities. And I have to correct one thing, Mr. Alvarez -- you know I don't like it -- but the Bipartite did zero. As Territorial Policy Advisor Alberto Núñez Feijóo, and I was the Director General of Territory Planning, we made not only a hypothesis document but the initial approval of DOTs. In four years of Bipartite, this was so important and they're so good managers, they didn't do anything. Alberto Núñez Feijóo had to arrive and pass the guidelines in 2011. And, by the way, Mrs. Fernández, it was a job that I had the honour right now at the university of coordinating with people of all fields and specialities and of all colors, and we arrived at a consensus paper that is currently in force. But not only this, the Coastal Management Plan also got in the process and in those four years of such good management and so important that it's for you they haven't done it, and it had to arrive Alberto Núñez Feijóo and approve it later in 2011. What did he do with all those big plans the Bipartite? Zero. But I'm going to tell you that you tried one thing: a housing plan, which achieved unanimity: all Galicia, including the BNG and the PSOE, was against that plan because it was made without dialogue and without participation. So I think you have to be a little more modest and be a little more responsible. It's too bad I have so many things, but I'm going to finish, because unfortunately I don't have any more time. They bring two amendments that I think they're not at all, honestly. They had to look for a justification to come here and release their speech. PSOE has read a few urban laws to try to justify. BNG started talking about partial amendments, because I'm not at all; he talked about his amendments and asked the advisor. We'll have time to talk about partial amendments. But they make this posture I think two big mistakes: first,...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u69	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u70	...—I'm finished, president—that people don't believe these speeches, because they don't believe them as we just saw them; you keep imagining with that story. And second, the incongruence on the left, because where they rule, they make laws like these, they copy the laws of promotion and economic activity, and they have no coherence and use them more than popular governments. So, I think I end by saying that we will vote against these two amendments. We look forward to another more constructive position when we talk about partial amendments and we hope that they leave those partisan interests and the false stories, and we can really talk about the law and what it means, and not about their speeches and dreams. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u71	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica of amending groups. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Fernández Prado, two points: You seemed frankly reciting a little bit of the rosary as many times as Mr. Feijóo mentioned. He just failed to say, "Mr. Feijóo, pray for us, protect us." Mr. Fernández Prado, I can understand that the hungry bennñez Feijóo-Fernández Prado at his time in the office had done great things, and that you consider them even bigger. [[Laughter]] But really, the protection, the interest in the landscape shown by Mr.Núñez Feijóo since the adoption of Law 7/2008, of the protection of the landscape, until the publication of Decree 96/2020 of that law, at least — let me estimate: 2020 minus 2008 — twelve years of concern for the landscape. [[Applause]] Have you not had time in twelve years to make a decree to regulate the protection of the landscape? Look: Frankly, there are things that should be out of this trip to moderation and to the centre recently undertaken by the People's Party when it speaks of posture both of the BNG and of the PSdeG to present amendments. Regardless of whether you may at all disagree legitimately with everything we say, I think there are certain terms that should not be used to qualify for the position of any political group. [[Applause]] In any case, you know that we know what are the plans of supramunicipal incidence and we also know how far the difference between these and the projects of self-interest reaches. She said in her speech that it was a law that was already twenty-five years old, that it was intended to make a text more simple, up-to-date and efficient, with maximum guarantees of action, a balanced development for our autonomous community and that it simplifies and agitates urban processing. Well, in that sense, what am I going to tell you? It's time, isn't it, if you get this target. But then I'll say why I doubt that this target can be achieved with this regulation. In any case, you said you wanted no municipality in the autonomous community to be without a general municipal management plan. I wish! I wish you could! Given the success accumulated until this moment of the development of the law of 2016, with the number of approved plans and those under development, allow me to sow a shadow of doubt about that success, which I hope will be achieved. And you said that the Land Management Guidelines don't present evaluations. Obviously, it's an effective instrument, it's a valid instrument, it's an instrument that has been losing relatively momentum with the progress of the years, but in any case within this standard, things are going to be done that I don't think can finally be done according to what is planned. There is a obvious failure in DOT planning and its implementation in general municipal planning plans since 2011. The law itself has been in the management of the territory and it will allow me, and also speaking directly to Mr. Fernández Prado, because I know that he has experience both in management in the Government of Galicia, as general director, as a concelerator in a very important city of this autonomous community, who knows perfectly — and he knows that I also know — that experience shows that real complexity in urban development is in the legal field, always. It's not in the design of the guidelines, much less in the technical instruments. I think, in general, in large cities and municipalities too, the basic structure, with nuances, of the Town Hall has been a service of architecture, a service of licenses and a service of urbanism, and most of them, of course, of legal connotation. So it's not a technical problem, it's a planning problem, which we honestly believe is not in regulation. We believe that in developing this new legislation, the impact of a new law has not been calibrated, which will operate precisely — we believe — and the future history will say — this of future history, forgive me, Counsellor, for saying this in view of its formation — if this objective is achieved or not achieved, because it seems to me that this simplification which is intended for this new law will be subject to a certain chaos from the point of view of compliance with the legislation, and the possible collision of this new standard, which will undoubtedly be approved, with the rest of the urban legislation that we have in the rest of the autonomous community. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u73	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Fernández Gómez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u74	Mr. Prado, we agree that it is necessary to move on to order the territory on the supra-municipal scale, that urbanization processes today require work on that scale, but that is why integrated territorial plans are needed. It's been twenty-five years and the result is zero integrated territorial plans developed. [[Applause]] We compare ourselves with Euskadi, who, on the other hand, has territorial plans for all areas of his territory. Why can Euskadi have them and Galicia not? What's the difference, since the competitions are the same? The question is that the problem of the People's Party is not a question of competence, but of mere incompetence, which is their problem. [[Applause]] And we agree that those self-interest projects can always be positive and when they're associated with a prior planning, but what you're doing in this case is separating them from any kind of planning. We agree that it may be interesting to make public infrastructure, but what you propose with this project of self-interest is to allow private operators to speculate on the ground and use natural resources without any criteria. We therefore insist on our rejection of this bill, especially by projects of self-interest, as defined, but also generally due to the lack of answers, to the fact that we have both the previous legislation and the lack of ability to respond to future challenges. And you were talking here that we were talking about partial amendments. Of course, we are talking about partial amendments, of course we are talking about the amendments we tabled, because the amendments we tabled not only have an opposition to this law, but also have a pro-positive character, of thinking about what is the management of the territory that Galicia needs in 2020. And I want to point out here at least four questions that seem to us the most structural: Firstly, it is necessary to reformulate the role of the Territorial Management Guidelines. The main lesson we have found for the last nine years that the guidelines have been adopted is that although they are an instrument that is located at the top of the pyramid of the computer system, which is the base frame to which the rest of the instruments are then subject, in practice it did not have the ability to influence and operate on planning. Because if later plans that are generally in a bottom line are not approved, the guidelines are reduced to an explanatory book without real application. Legal reform should therefore be geared towards correcting this situation. We put forward the following questions: that DOTs should have the capacity to plan on a proposal basis, to set temporary targets; that the guidelines should define and define the supra-municipal areas, preferably metropolitan and comarcal, which divide and articulate the entire territory, and that they should be developed within a maximum of ten years by integrated territorial plans. In addition, in order to avoid the fragmented view of the territory, guidelines should set for each field a set of specific targets, based on general goals in country key, because there must be a vertical relationship between country objectives and the targets of a region or metropolitan area. Secondly, we believe that a new architecture of planning instruments is needed. This land management legislation belongs to the models that organize under the guidelines two types of fundamental plans: subregional scale plans and sectoral plans. We could also debate long and tense whether this is the best formula or whether it would be more appropriate to move forward towards other models of greater integration with urban and landscape issues, but this would lead to a longer debate. By assuming the framework set here for scale and sectoral plans, the fundamental question is how these two types of plans relate horizontally, and which ultimately define the preponderance of a view of the territory or other. It is clear that you are betting on the preponderance of the sectoral plans by means of the finished facts, although then legally both plans are located at the same level. We understand that, on the contrary, sub-regional scale plans must be those which must be the dominant elements, because they are those that have an integral character of social, economic, environmental and cultural issues for the same area. They are the ones who have the ability to have a polyedric vision, opportunities for action, social needs, endogenous resources and problems to solve. On the other hand, sectoral plans actually have some positive points, such as the ability to encourage and order activities. They also have the ability to set ecological limits, even if they don't want to use them. But, above all, sectoral plans are at risk that they contain a fragmented vision of an activity. And if we don't put binding criteria between sectoral plans and sub-regional scale plans, they end up operating outside the needs of society as a whole. That is why we propose that sectoral plans should be preparatory to integrated territorial plans and that the fundamental weight of implementation should be based on integrated territorial plans, which should be those which should comply with those strategic guidelines of the sectoral plans. Finally, we believe that it is also necessary to create a new figure so that we can govern our territory: plans that affect territorial planning. I think we can agree that there is a malfunction between the territorial management competences, which are exclusive to the Greek Government, and the real capacity that we then have to define the infrastructure, equipment and services projects that affect our territory.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u75	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u76	So -- I'm done, what we're proposing is the creation of a new kind of plan to solve this dysfunction with regard to the powers that the State has in our country. We call for the creation of a plan with an impact on territorial planning, where the Council can plan issues such as the road network as a whole, the competitions of Galicia, but also those of state competence, the railway network as a whole, the airports, the ports, the logistics centres, which we can define from Galicia the fundamental parts for the management of the territory. And that when the State Administration bodies, in the exercise of their powers, want to carry out proceedings in the territory of Greece, they must have a favourable report from the competent council, and in the event that there are discrepancies the agreement should be sought.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u77	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u78	I think if you're in favour of us deciding the Greeks how we order our infrastructures and services, I suppose they'll accept our amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández Gómez. Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u80	After the debate on these legislative texts, we shall proceed to the vote. We started with a joint vote on the amendments to the whole refund submitted to the Galician Continental Fisheries Act. We are voting in particular on the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting amendments to the total refund of GGs. PP. the Galician Socialists and the Galician Nationalist Block to the Galician Continental Fisheries Law Project. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected as a whole.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u81	The bill continues its parliamentary process. We are also voting together now on the amendments tabled to the Galician Land Management Bill, the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting amendments to the total refund of GGs. PP. of the Galician Socialists and the Galego Nationalist Block to the draft law on the management of Galician territory. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected as a whole.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u82	This bill also continues its parliamentary process. The votes are over here. Agenda development modification
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u83	We continue to change the agenda; in this case it is a motion, when it does not correspond, but we debate it in order to sort out parliamentary times a little bit; otherwise we would not end today. G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, on the actions to be carried out by the Government to ensure health care for citizens
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u84	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u85	Good morning. In the full past, the BNG called upon the Health Counsellor to tell us what conditions are the public health of Galician people to meet the health needs of the Greeks and the Greeks, the usual and the derivatives of the covid and also those predicted by respiratory diseases proper to the winter era we are starting. We want to know, like the professionals, what is the contingency plan they have prepared for the Galician Union to guarantee such health care. The response to the pandemic cannot be based on increasing restrictions on access to assistance, the public system, because it poses a clear risk to health and population. This situation of having at least minimum the health system can lead us to a problem of collective health, of chronication of pathologies and of late care. Every day there are more voices that are alerting about the serious problem of mortality and morbidity due to suspension or delay of consultations, for suspension of diagnostic tests, interventions, surgery or treatment. And the response that is being given to Junta is focused on restrictive measures, aimed primarily at individual responsibility, the criminalization of certain groups as responsible for the contagion. And the question that we ask ourselves about BNG, like many thousands of Greeks and Greeks, is: where are the measures that are meant to effect the Government? And what measures does the People's Party's Union take to strengthen public health as a key to fighting the pandemic? That's why today we bring here this motion, which comes from the question of the whole past, a motion that demands anticipation, going forward, having a proactive and non-reactive position, and asking for action, taking decisions to solve the current problems, the serious problems facing the Greeks and the Greeks to access health care; measures to increase the number of professionals and their protection; measures to immediately reactivate the presence care in primary care and to end these rules of people to access health centres and delays to be addressed by telephone, and delays that, of course, we consider unacceptable for weeks to access presence consultations; therefore, also proposed measures to end the physical queues and to end the telematic and telephone queues. And the first point of the motion presented today by the BNG is to present the contingency plan immediately to the Greek Parliament. In the past the counselor said they were still drawing it up, and we were at that height at the end of October, and the counselor said they were still drawing up the contingency plan. It seems to us that, in an exceptional situation like the one we are living with and after eight months of pandemic, the most normal thing would be that this contingency plan to address the over-exposure of usual problems, of hideous problems and of respiratory problems should be developed. That is why we demand that this contingency plan be immediately introduced, because now more than ever it is necessary to ensure that public health has the right resources and the necessary professionals in order to be able to respond to current and future challenges. The need for such a contingency plan to address staff recruitment needs and to meet, as I said, the usual care, influenza outbreaks and respiratory diseases, which addresses the needs of staff and means for ordinary and extraordinary health care, seems to be quite evident. And it is not possible — and I say it as loud and clear as I can — to meet all the health demands without increasing the means, and the alternative cannot be to seek to lower that attention, to put the rest of the pathologies in suspense. And that plan is therefore necessary to guarantee this health care to the population. And you can't respond to the pandemic without good health care and you can't guarantee that health care without the necessary personnel in both primary and hospital care. And the second point we demand is to proceed immediately to remedy staff deficits — it seems most logical — and the urgent recruitment of all the necessary professionals to have all the services dimensioned for when it is necessary to meet all that demand. You can't expect to keep having the problem, the breakdown of the services, which there is already a very high medical pressure to start hiring staff and having the devices ready. We must act in advance, because, of course, we think it's useless to cheat on the lonely, and we see how the Sergas and the People's Party cheat on the lonely. And one example is to say these days in the media that will hire 750 new nursing professionals; and I'm talking about nursing but I could talk about any other category. And what does the group of nurses say about that? Well, he says that this contingency plan, based on the recruitment of 750 nurses, is nothing but a burda and simple makeup; that these 750 nurses are nothing but contractors, who end these connections on November 30. I mean, it's coming out of Galicia, Sergas, saying that he's going to hire 750 new nurses, that they're the ones that stop on November 30 and then he's going to hire in December. I, of course, what I ask you today is that you stop cheating, try to trick the Greeks and the Greeks and act and move forward, and accept this motion that the BNG presents, where we demand to hire the staff right away. We demand to end the policy of precariousness and exploitation in recruitment, offering decent contracts. We are constantly seeing how many professionals are being hired in private health, many others who march outside of Galicia — whether to other parts of the state or to other parts of the European Union — by the policy of recruitment, of precariousness that Sergas offers them. The same group of nurses in Lota did a survey to find out what the recruitment management in nurses is. They have to do surveys because Sergas, the Union in general, has a level of opacity regarding his performance which is really worthy of being looked at. So they did a survey to find out what that situation was and gave them this result: that since March 1 30% of these nurses made more than ten contracts, 55% worked in more than five different services and 79% were called less than two days in advance. If this isn't precarious, if this isn't a contract that makes anyone who has any other chance run, because they should explain it to me. At the fourth point, what we demand is to limit the risk of contagion of workers and workers, facilitating the protection they need. It is not to be accepted that at this point in the second wave of the pandemic, they must continue to demand protection with FPP2 masks for direct care to people who approach health centres as well as hospitals. And that lack of protection are those grotesques that are emerging, either in hospital services or health centres, which they wouldn't have to be producing. We also demand to activate presence care in primary care to respond to these demands of the population. Of course, we stay at the BNG very worried, very worried when a few days ago in a media interview, the advisor recognized that only between 25% and 30% of primary care is presence care. This data could not of course be continued at this dimension. We have to get rid of those rows of people glued to the health center and that inability to answer on the phone. That's why we also demand to ensure telephone care without delay, with the increase and improvement of the network, providing the number of professionals needed to respond to this exponential increase in demand. Accessibility and care continuity is more accurate than ever, and the fundamental characteristic of primary care is accessibility and proximity, and of course, the contact and relationship between physicians and patients is basic in primary care, and at the moment it is not guaranteed, and therefore good health care is not guaranteed. We're also asking for a tracking plan to be put in place. We don't know why they keep denying what the situation of the tracking plan is and tomorrow we'll ask the advisor for the situation. Inform Parliament about the situation in the flu campaign. This year, Junta made a huge campaign, beginning with the president of the Union himself, the councilman, high office, asking the population to be vaccinated and we found ourselves a few days from starting this influenza campaign, there were no more than enough doses to vaccinate even the target groups, the most risky groups. We want to know what the situation is and if you are in a position to guarantee that vaccination at least for risk groups. And also, in order to finish, we watched with quite amazement the campaign that launched the Galician Union, the bomb and the dish, which was advertising thousands of fast tests that could be done in pharmacies in the province of Ourense, to determine whether they were positive or not of coronavirus. It was opted for private centres instead of strengthening primary care. But as serious as that was the fact that it was just a measure for the news, not to provide...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u86	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u87	...solutions to the population, because the vast majority of these tests expired in a few days; i.e., it was a publicity measure and not a measure to act. So this is the motion that today presents the Galician Nationalist Block and we expect the approval of the other two groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u89	Thank you, President. Good morning, almost noon now. This motion by the BNG, a wide motion with many different points, which prevent the truth from deepening in each of them, is a little motion like a combined plate: trackers, flu, rapid tests, face-to-face primary care, telephone primary care, worker protection, work precariousness... we are going to vote in favour because we believe that it collects this thread of situations rather a recompilation of the latest news, because in the end the problem we have — and this is indeed an element that this initiative points out well — is that we are living in a very confusing situation in the organization of the system. We have a health system in general in this country that works — as we have all said many times — well and has very large professionals. But we must overcome the element of being so happy saying that it's very good because it was very good; not because it was right if you're right. Today, there are serious organizational problems that are well-founded and which have their roots primarily in the fact that for years we've been losing investment capacity in the health system. That's why we've also lost professionals and, therefore, we have a problem with professional deficits. We will move this through the motion that will be debated this afternoon and we want to put that focus on. Now here in this motion that transfers BNG there are this set of initiatives that it is true they pose some real problems that the system has and are up to date. There are probably many occasions when we like to talk — some of them especially like to talk — about very high-tech issues, high-performance health issues, other levels of the system that are important, clearly important. But we forget many times — or it seems that many times it is forgotten — that there are real problems in the day-to-day health care, the one that is less visible for congresses, much less visible for large business investments, but actually the one that uses the population most, which is probably the one that cares less, though when it needs it must be there, that it happens with nuclear medicine and much more than it has been a month without being able to be cared for to renew the recipes. And this is a problem on a day-to-day basis for many people today. Today, this very morning, when I came out here, when I came in the car, I passed by my health center — it's an advantage to see all the health centers in Vilagarcia, because with forty thousand inhabitants we only have one, and it's fifty years old — and I saw how there are people waiting, like every day, crossing a road, having to wait in line on the fence -- they can't even because the ambulance has to go in there -- and they have to wait, like every day, outside the health center older people who have to do some question in the health center and that some of them inevitably have to be there, as they have those waiting for blood extraction too, who are waiting there. And this happens, and they come to us, as will come to all groups, in a multitude of health centers in Galicia. And today we continue to have that problem, without anyone knowing what the solution will be, beyond — certainly very interesting — to debate the future of European products in health care and the investment of large technologies — which is very good — but there are people waiting on the street in health centres. And that's because we have a deep disunity and now, that we have to manage a crisis situation in the system, overcome the seams. There are people today in health centers who are not able to have the appointments they need, because the delay before was already the biggest that we've ever had in the medium term, but they don't have them today. So we're offering the citizenry a supposed system that's not entirely real, which still has traces of being able to recover that power that he's had, but that's not really real. And things like what we offer, we announce a flu campaign with all those of the law, and it turns out we forget to buy the vaccine doses for the flu. We campaign and, uh, we forget to buy the vaccine. It's the greatest information manipulation of the kingdom. [[Applause]] We announced a campaign and forgot to buy the vaccine. I say it because Mr Feijóo this weekend was supposed to tweet about the manipulation of the media, to Mr Feijóo, eh!, to Mr Feijóo, who, if we hurry up, CRTVG gives him as a winner in Pennsylvania, eh! [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Well, instead of tweeting about these absurd things, lies, fake news, we could be tweeting about what happened to the flu vaccines and not saying what else we're being alarmists. [[Murmurs.]] Alarmists want it, but there are people who don't have their flu vaccine and who went and canceled their appointment to put the vaccine on, and who gave him new appointments to put the vaccine on and still haven't arrived. And there are professionals in health centers -- less than there was -- who don't have the ability to give a real answer. And so this is our system, this is our system that we have today. The pharmacy tests have been cited here. It's hard to know what happened, there's no real answer about what happened. And planning, in addition, has two problems. First of all, it was pointed out here by the spokesperson of the BNG — and rightly so — that it is to remove from the public health system a function that is peculiar to the public health system, which is to do the tests. But secondly, let's consider whether, by telling people that, by doing a test of their own will that can give them a result let's put that negative, we're not making an absurd call about invulnerability. Because it's a problem to do massive tests, despite what Pablo Marado had repeatedly said -- it's no solution -- because doing massive tests to the population gives a picture today, but nobody promises tomorrow's picture to be different, and therefore it doesn't make any sense. So, above all not to do it within the system, we're feeding a false sense of invulnerability, and it doesn't make any sense either, except that the objective of the measure was another -- which is what it looks like -- which is to solve a stockpiling problem, which is very good, but the bars also need to solve a stockpiling problem. So it's important that we don't take ad hoc averages, to go out on television, to be able to give a couple of press headlines, and that we can think that the daily system, our health system, day by day, is having serious problems, especially as it is well pointed out in this initiative, also primary care. Of course, it is necessary to have a primary care system that protects people and that, in the situation in which we live, has a special care of protection, of course. But that doesn't mean we should leave the system completely and tell people to look for life, which is indirectly what we're telling them, and that's not decent. Because our system is prepared to make, if you have the necessary means, a double system and take the necessary care to foster patients and non-covid patients, especially in primary care, and you can do it. The question is why there's not a single step left for this yet. For this is the question we have to answer. And the truth is, no one is able to be giving any answer. There would, of course, be a lot of initiatives to get out; only with this which I was presenting gives rise to various debates, but from our point of view, it focuses on the general problem of the lack of coordination of the system and how a real response is not being given to the necessary attention that many people need day by day. Let's remember that we're probably leaving behind or we're looking at less on average than we need chronically ill populations, which are usually older people, but not just the only ones in our system, which are 80% of primary care consultations, and so we're leaving 80% of ordinary activity out. Of course we live in a pandemic that needs all our health care, but that can't put aside a part of the population that needs attention. It is now that we can no longer discuss the pre-pandamy situation, where primary care was in difficulty, as we all have assumed, with proposals for different solutions and with different approaches and perspectives on the solution. It's just that now we're in a situation where we're no longer in precarious shape, as before, they're in many abandoned cases. And, therefore, our system has to give the ability to solve everyday problems and not just to be thinking about a part of health care, but we must face everything, with the difficulty it has, that we are all aware that no one can ask for an excellence, a 100 percent efficiency to any government. At least we understand that is loyalty. We don't do other things like they do other governments, but it's possible to give a dignified and minimal response to our health system, to people who need it most. And that's not happening, and we understand that this initiative is also going directly. And that's why we're going to support her. We understand that the initiative itself is true that it is broad and does not allow us to deepen in all of it, but, through many others that we have presented in this parliament, we can debate other things. We can't do it on a specific commission about the coward because that's why the People's Party has refused and it doesn't seem to be of interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u90	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez-Vispo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. Mr. Torrado, you say here today that President Feijóo did fake news on the weekend, at least what he's doing in Madrid his party taking advantage of the state of alarm, would measure a little more my words with that committee that had been watching media misinformation. [[Applause]] We are debating today a motion on the guarantee of health care in Galicia, which we, from the People's Group, think is good even if it is better. Here are the results of the polls of the health barometer, the patient satisfaction surveys; there are Galician figures in the management of the pandemic, which so far show that the management that has been done or is being done is comparatively less bad than that done in other autonomous communities, and of course that the measures taken by the Government of Greece would not be so successful if it had not been for the work of health professionals, which we again highly value from this rostrum. We agree with you in the complex situation of primary care. We linked it to the September press: "In a union statement, primary workers demand solutions to the serious health problems of the health system: lack of personnel with high rates of temporaryity, systematic workload, stress, lack of protection, neglect of work health and no provision to the needs of reconciliation and progressive deterioration of working conditions." But the curious thing is that all these problems are not caused by the health policies of Feijóo or the PP, not, Madam, they are protesting by the health policies that are taking place in Euskadi. Last October, the primary care staff of the Institut Català de la Saúde were shown to demand more resources, more personnel and better working conditions, with a government of JuntsxCat and Republican Left that does not only apply the PP health policy and has the same problems as we do. One of the problems is stabilisation in recruitment. But few autonomous communities can say that, in the worst moments of the crisis, OPE has been convened continuously since 2012, exhausting the permitted replacement rate at any time. There have even been years when more than 100 percent were hired, reaching 108 percent, thanks to the generosity of other advisors. The offer for this year, the offer for 2020 by Sergas, will include 973 squares, which are true that they could reach 3,500 if, as the Health Counsellor said the other day, the State Administration has definitively eliminated the replenishment rate requested on repeated occasions by President Feijóo and the Health Council itself; and for this it only needs political will. This year's bid, 2020, represents 100 percent of the ordinary rate of replacement of troops; in total there would be 6,909 professionals who join public health institutions with a fixed-rate bond since 2012. Last Friday at the Sectoral Table, we presented the Plan of Continence for Human Resources Covid-19, a plan that can be carried out from December 1st and which you appointed, with 750 appointments of health emergency in the category of nursing staff, with a minimum duration of four months, reaching 150 of these contracts for a duration of one year. Many of these contracts, as you said, have already been completed, but these 750 appointments are re-arranged. In addition, 121 continuity contracts have already been made, which have already been formalized this year. It is also planned to perform health emergency appointments in other categories, both primary and hospital care. Of course, much more is needed — of course we agree — but we have to go a little bit and what we can do right now. Continence plans to meet the extraordinary demand for assistance from increased cases of cowardice are necessary and this year because much more, with the confluence of the coward and the flu, and we agree, Mrs. Prado, to request the Government of Greece to present the contingency plan in this parliament. The advisor said it in the past full: the best contingency plan is prevention and avoid as far as possible these extraordinary case increases by these two pathologies. And in the case of influenza, we also talked about the vaccination campaign, which is organized every year between October and December, to minimize precisely the impact that disease has and can prevent it. It began on October 13 and the population may be more aware of the subject of cowardice because it came sooner than in other campaigns, and in fact, the head of the Communicable Disease Control Service pointed out to him: "Health has already vaccinated 398.171 people, which means nearly 125,000 people more than the year before these heights of the campaign. And people over 65 are vaccinated are also in record numbers, reaching 248,834, that is, 52,311 more than the previous year." What is true is an increase in application for the anti-gribal vaccination of children under 65 years of age, and what is being transmitted to the board right now is that vaccination is first sought for risk groups, because the campaign is going to extend until December 31st and there is no health emergency to be vaccinated before, since the influenza epidemic is expected not to reach mid-January. Indeed, we do not deny that there have been problems distribution of the vaccine, but there are still reservations, being vaccinated many more people than the previous year. The national spokesperson for SATSE says: "There is knowledge of lack of doses at some point of the campaign in Navarre, Madrid, Galicia, La Rioja, Cantabria, Aragon and Valencia, but it is also true that vaccines are resting." With which we believe we have to give a message of calm to the population, because the campaign still continues until December 31st. With regard to ensuring telephone care without delay, we fully agree, because the topic of telephone care concerns us, I'm not going to say more or less than you but at least like you, and of course the patient has to be able to contact your doctor or at least your health center the same day the call takes place. And we're also concerned about the risk of infection of workers working directly with patients, and we understand that proper protective materials must be provided, as we understand that people, citizenship should use masks. And what we also understand is that it's a big expense for many citizens' pockets in Galicia and the rest of Spain, but today we have some bad news: that the government has just voted against an initiative to lower the EVI from the masks, because it says it would assume 1,568 million less collection. That's what the Government says to try to help the entire citizenry, both in Galicia and Spain, and that people can use the masks and try to stop the pandemic's progress. With regard to the last point of the motion, it seems to us that a report is presented in Parliament explaining the details of the collaboration of the Council and College of Pharmaceuticals of Ourense with the rapid tests carried out in the pharmacies. But yes, I would like to make it clear that these are not antigen tests, as they say in your motion, but are antibodies tests, they are not diagnostic tests; they are tests that allow you to get the results through a digital puncture to know if a person has suffered or has an active infection by coward. It wasn't a publicity measure, they took place in Ourense at a time when chaos was increasing dangerously, as you know, and if it was necessary to detect possible infections, but especially asymptomatic people and the possibility of infection of them. More than half of the pharmacies participated, pharmacies participated in municipalities like Barbados or The Carballin, which had a high incidence, and people in Ourense -- and I'm telling you because they're orensa -- are very satisfied, because they're free tests and allow them to know the immunological state in front of the vault at that time. Not that they're free -- don't do those gestures to me -- it's because people at that time in fifteen minutes can know what the immunological situation is in, and we think it's important. [[Murmurs.]] And besides, you talk — and I agree — about the overload of primary care work, and this at that time allowed you to discharge that overload — as it were in some way — and at the same time follow the recommendations of the epidemiologists, who say that there is a lot of testing to be done. Health recommendations are followed in Galicia. In fact, we have a rate of antibody tests per thousand inhabitants that doubles Spanish; the average of Spain is 55.09, and Galicia's is 132.58. So, Your Honor, we can make contributions to improve health in our autonomous community, to the extent that it allows us the situation of which we are leaving, and there they can of course count on us, so I would ask you to vote for points, because there are indeed many of the points where we agree with you and some that at the moment cannot be solved. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author group of the motion, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u93	In fact, the BNG brings here an extensive motion, but even, despite that extension, it covers only one of the urgent problems to be solved, only some of the urgent problems to be solved to address immediately. I mean, having a contingency plan seems like it should be immediate, just like the subject of having staff in order to be able to care for population, presence care and primary care; that is, issues that are demanding thousands and thousands of Greeks and Greeks. I am sure, Madam, that the points you mentioned are going to vote in favour if we accept the vote by points, right? Good. Before you go to those points, it's quite repetitive that you come here to the rostrum to value the work of professionals very much and tell the good professionals that they are; it's that they are. One of the visitors to the Reactivation Commission, a member of the Joint Clinical Committee, gave a data on what you should think about, and it was that the cost, the investment in health in the Spanish State and Galicia were very low. We had a very high quality health care, with very low investment, which means that quality mainly goes to the back of the workers and public health workers, with which that situation cannot be kept indefinitely. That is to say, the quality of the system based on maltreatment of professionals cannot be maintained, with which it is very good that they recognize that value — that they have it — but it would be much better for them to accept and meet their demands, that they no longer have such precarious employment and that abuse of health professionals. We shall accept that vote by points. It seems to us insufficient, because — I insist — it is a broad motion because we believe that it brings up basic issues that must be done at the moment, but it is a step forward in fundamental matters. The first, in the matter of activating face-to-face attention in primary care, and I hope that after voting in favour it is really a reality, because the counselor, in an interpellation I made in this parliament, said he was going to give orders for that to be so, and we're mid-November and a few days ago gave the data of 25% or 30% no more of face-to-face attention. Which we think is very good for them to step in and realize as we have to activate the presence attention, but that will have to be verified in reality; it can't just be a try to be fine. The contingency plan, which is presented as soon as possible. We need to know what that situation is. To ensure telephone attention by increasing lines that are needed or by increasing staff. It is true that telephone staff in health centres are already expanding, which is necessary but not enough; it is necessary to increase even more these professionals, who have seen the need for telephone care increased exponentially, not only by the people who ask for an appointment, but also by the people who have to go through with the doctor or the lines that are occupied by doctors who are paying attention to telephone care; and, of course, in what is concrete is the impossibility of connecting with health centers. And on the subject of contagion, it is that, in fact, eight months after being in a pandemic, you have to come to Parliament to meet the demands of professionals for proper protection of your health and with that also for the rest of the patients and the rest of the professionals to avoid being infected! I also hope that it will be true and that they will not continue to limit devices that are finally the chocolate of the oyster within the budget, such as FFP2 protection masks, in most services, that at this point with community transmission is necessary, because it is not possible to determine, when someone enters the door, who is likely to be positive or not, because there is community transmission more than proven. We shall accept that vote by points. But we also tell him that we are going to be vigilant in meeting — as we said — because they do not vote in favour of improving professional deficits, or the issue of precariousness, or that they continue to deny the situation of traces or the issue of the flu campaign. It's just that we don't invent it or go to any kind of alarmism, but there's nothing else to go to the media, which says that Galicia keeps the population at risk without influenza vaccines because she's exhausted the doses, despite the fact that in May the president of the board, Nuñez Fexóoo, has already started campaigning that this year the topic of the influenza vaccine would be fundamental — also said here the advisor at the previous plenary session — because the best method is prevention. Of course! But it has to be a prevention that exists. And if the best way to get flu is to have vaccines and there's no vaccines, because we're wrong, and if the best way to fight the coward is to detect it in time and have trackers and we don't have them or are not doing it efficiently...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u94	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u95	...for we're really making bread with pies. I am grateful for the positive vote the Socialist Party has also expressed on this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u96	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. We suspended the session until 6:00, four in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u97	Good afternoon. The session is resumed. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the training and recruitment of staff for the public health system of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u98	An amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u99	To formulate the motion, Mr. Torrado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u100	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, again, everyone. We have this motion from the Socialist Group on what we consider to be the essential problem of our health system in Galicia, which is focused on staff, and the serious problem is that we have an erratic human resources policy — as we say it in a soft way — which is uncoordinated, imprecise, inconceivable — by saying a little more clearly. Sergas has become the first and most powerful ETT in Galicia in recent years. It does so out of political will, because it is not even necessary to assume the level of eventuality and precariousness that Sergas has developed in recent years as it is so far. And it's because the will to be precarious as a system is because it's -- therefore it's proven -- in the DNA of the health organization that the People's Party develops, especially here in Galicia; we see it in other places with PP as in Madrid, but we see it here also in Galicia. There is a problem of staff — serious — in the health system, deficit and precariousness. As a clear example of the deficit in eleven years, budgeting against budgeting — or official sources — only primary care lost in eleven years 1,100 professionals, 1,100 professionals, in eleven years. It's not that we grew up little, it's not that we didn't grow anything, that we lost 1,100 primary care professionals in eleven years, and that's a serious deficit problem. We can't defend that we have better health if we have 1,100 professionals less, unless we believe that we can have better health with less professionals, but it's not our model. If someone defends that model, it's legitimate, but we don't share it and we don't understand it. But in addition, the staff who participates in the system have a very serious problem of precariousness. Last Friday, in the reconstruction committee, a doctor, a member of the Galician clinical committee, who is currently advising the Government, spoke of the serious and major problem that this system has in time. We will thank him for his intervention, because when the Socialist Party transfers him to this parliament we receive all kinds of qualifications, surely very affectionate but often not very flattering. When some professionals say it, for example, who participates in this case in the clinical committee, they might hear something else. Now the candy and dish will be the day when, in addition to listening, you can take steps to solve it, but who knows? In any case, this professional was talking about 30% of the timeliness in the system, and it's something that's inscrutable. It's a data that we've handled approximately in general terms for the system set. There are groups that are worse, worse. The group of nurses can sprinkle 40% of eventuality, even the group of possible nurses cites above 40% the number of nurses in the health system of Galicia. This basically means that most of the professionals we have in contact with in our day-to-day lives, because they're the ones most in contact with most of the citizenry, they're in a situation of eventuality. The eventuality of a professional-professional means, for example, that if we arrive at a hospital today and we are cared for in emergencies, you may be looking after a professional-a professional who was in another service yesterday, who has not guaranteed to have had the necessary breaks; you may have been working many more days in continuity than a staff with full stability in the system; you may have all the uncertainty of whether you're going to work tomorrow or last; and you may be able to take months without a single day, not a single day, for yourself, because you don't know if you're going to call it. And besides, you have to be pending because you can't pick up your phone or turn off a system call, because, in case you're in a situation of eventuality, you need to always take care not to be penalized on your system. This is the reality. We're being cared for by people who live in a situation of permanent tension in front of the system. And, therefore, this way of hiring and treating our professionals feeds on a problem, a problem of occupational risk, a problem of professional burning. And this is a system that we cannot afford. The possibility is a political problem and a problem of political will. We have this level of eventuality because the Government wants it. Every year the Government of the Union spends approximately 400 million euros in eventuality in Sergas, 400 million euros, more than the budgeting of many advisors. And it's very important that someone can explain at some point how it's possible that an eventuality system supposedly prepared to face exceptional circumstances can spend 400 million euros a year. Because this means two things. First of all, that the ability to predict is very little and therefore we have that level of eventuality; and secondly, if it is every year, it is done at will. EUR 400 million — low — on a yearly basis. Someone will have to be able to explain how this might be efficient, because it's much easier to perceive and understand that with that level of spending eventually being able to give stability to our professionals would be more efficient and more effective; 400 million euros spent on eventuality and to make the professionals or professionals of the health system don't know today if they're going to be hired tomorrow. Let's put a case, because it's clear, because this is what we're talking about. A fall within the system that will last for three months. It can be covered with a three-month contract. This would be reasonable; we know it's a three-month drop, it's dealt with three months. It's not what happens in Sergas. Sergas hires, at most, the first month. On the last day of the first month, the person who's covering that drop will know whether he's going to be hired in the second month or not. It could be the same person or it could be another. Perhaps that square which is covering will be covered by someone who is on another plant in the hospital, but, of course, undressing a saint to wear another one, and therefore this other square will be once again empty and now that person who was the first month here has to go for the second. It's already a hard story to explain, but now we have a second contract just for one month, because by the end of that month we'll reorganize those two people and hopefully they'll have another contract for another month. And in the end we covered the same time but with three contracts; that's yes, in order to be able to get out in the press three times to say it's contracted three times, as if we're hiring three professionals when it's one for a replacement; as happened to the 750 advertised, which is only limiting precarious contracts to be able to announce them several times. Those are fake news — and, moreover, quite indecent. This is what's happening in the system: that we have professionals who don't know where they're going to work, and this can't be admitted. We have a precarious problem. Let's talk, fill our mouths with health research. Yesterday we received good news, hopeful, depending on research, health research. I think we are all aware that in recent times we must look to health research as a bet for the future. In the last two years Galicia has no longer invested 11.5% in its health research programme. But it's more: the researchers and the Welsh researchers in the biomedical foundations in Galicia have no work agreement, they have no work agreement. This government has been subjected to a situation of no work agreement by researchers and Welsh researchers at work, under a patronage of what I invite them to know who it was until a month and a half ago — it gave them a clue: he's a counselor today — without a job agreement. And that's the stability of professionals. Ourense. You know the EOXI of Ourense. You might be surprised that the Labour Inspectorate has reported that in Ourense there are irregular contributions from professionals in the pool service. Well, it's not true once, not even two or three, but four times the Labour Inspectorate reports irregular quotations on the system. The judicial system is emitting the plan to this Sergas habitually and they condemn for fraudulent recruitment — literally — "frauding contract". This is our system. We have a Sergas converted into Galicia's worst ETT, and there's no world to understand that our health care providers can be treated like this. I should never be less now. [[Applause]] We bring this motion with the intention of adopting stability measures. We hope it can be taken into account and we will value all the contributions to see if we can get a stability proposal forward to tell our professionals that, in addition to speaking very nice here, we finally take action, which is what we should do if we really believe in the public system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u101	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u102	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. I shall begin at this point by trying to position the meaning of the vote on this motion which today brings the PSOE to Parliament, but, first of all, Mr Torrado, here we have come to tell the truth. And the health budgets of the Galician Union did not stop growing. I would like to remind you here that the budgets for the year 2020 are EUR 4,109.6 million, the highest budgetary share of the council, 40.5% of the budget of the Greek Government. Starting with the points of your motion, at the first point, since we are in favour of supporting all institutional initiatives and actions that facilitate the implementation of the removal measure of the replenishment rate; as we will not agree with this!, after all the actions that have been carried out from Galicia in this sense. Let's remember, on this matter, that recently the Health Counsellor, in this same plenary room, said and remembered that for years now the Government of Galicia has been requesting this measure. The former Health Adviser, Mr. Almuña, asked Minister Dolores Monserrat for a letter in December 2016 and even so expressed it in the Human Resources Commission of the International Council in 2017, after this parliament unanimously adopted a proposal in this regard — specifically from your group, Mr. Torrado — in what you textually said that only political will was needed to take this action. A year later, in 2018, his party acceded to the Government of Spain and that measure was not taken. That's why since the German Government, aware that this is an indispensable, essential measure, to be able to recruit, continued to insist, and Galicia once again applied for this measure before Minister Montón, Minister Carcedo and Minister Illa. But he didn't give up. In May last year, the councillor of Fairy asked the Minister of Territorial Policy, Mrs. Darias, during a telematic meeting, to eliminate the restorative rate, both in health care and in social services. And President Feijóo also asked the Central Government to eliminate the rate for OPEs in health and social services by 2020 and, if possible, by 2021. Until today, no results. And that's more: at the end of last legislation, in December 2019, already with the PSOE government, we can in the Spanish Government, again the plenary of the Greek Parliament has unanimously also approved a proposal in the same sense. And in this same legislation on September 22nd this year I myself brought a GNP in the same sense. The Board has done its duty, Mr. Torrado, without success until now. Let's see if you're more successful in this matter; we really want you to. This is an old fundamental demand, and also in the current circumstances of health emergency, it is essential that the State eliminate the rate of replacement, as has been repeatedly requested, so that all the posts that the care needs are demanding may be offered by each community. And to us, Mr. Torrado, we're called attention to maintaining the replenishment rate, it hasn't changed. I don't know what you're going to say in your second speech about it, but, according to the state's general budget for next year, which just introduced your Government, it keeps the same rate. In health care, the same rate of replacement was maintained in the general State budget for 2021 as in 2018. And I know what you're going to say to me, but look, you're already getting better with the previous ones. We have to remember here that the rate comes from the Government of Rodríguez Zapatero, when it fell in 2009 from 100% to 30%. Government Rajoy in 2015 raised it to 50% and in 2016 to 100%. We don't know if this thing that they keep the same rate of replacement is because there's no political will or if it's false that political will is the only necessary one. We, Mr. Torrado, are in favour of the elimination of the replacement rate. In point 2 of your motion it says: to convene all MIR squares enabled for the public health system in Galicia in those deficit specialties in terms of staff. We agree, but it seems reasonable and necessary to have training units accredited in hospitals that allow the formation of more specialists, mainly in those specialties in which we are most deficient. If we don't have teaching squares, we can hardly ask for training. That is why we tabled the amendment to the effect that the call for squares will be linked to urge the Ministry of Health to comply with the agreements of the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System of 28 April 2018 relating to the axillization and flexibility of accreditations of teaching units, in particular specialities that have declared mostly deficient, such as family medicine, pediatrics and their specific areas. In point 3, which refers to evaluating with the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Santiago de Compostela the possible need to train more medical students in the coming years, with the provision of the means necessary to do so, we have no problem in asking the Faculty of Medicine to evaluate this possibility, but allow me to show my scepticism in this sense. I think the lack of faculty has far more complex causes than the formation of students at the University of Santiago de Compostela. As far as point 4 is concerned, which calls for extending the average recruitment time of potential staff to the maximum possible, especially in relation to the nursing facilities, to provide them with more stability, because here too we are in favour. In recent times, on 6 November, a Human Resources Continent Plan was presented to the trade unions at the sectoral table, a document incorporating about 20 extraordinary personnel measures, which is considered necessary and essential to deal with the health emergency situation. Consider, in addition, that you can perform up to 750 emergency appointments, in the nursing category and reaching a minimum duration of four months, and in 150 of them for a year. And it also introduced the draft public employment offer decree of the Galego Health Service 2020, which includes 973 statutory staff squares, which have been added to those approved continuously since 2012 and which is a total for the period of 6,909 squares in the Greek public system. The Government of Galicia has always taken structural measures on staff in recent years, and the most structural measure that can be taken in a health service in the wake of its staff is to be constant in public job offers, and so did the Government of Galicia. There are few autonomous communities that can say that they have called public offers of employment in health during the worst years of the economic crisis, and Galicia has not ceased to do so, always exhausting the permitted replacement rate at any time. The Galician Union is on the path of stability. It has set up a plan for the employment stability of Sergas' staff statuarial staff, agreed with union centres, with the fundamental objective of placing the temporality rate in the service by 5%. As for what you request in point 5 of the report within one month that assesses the need for staff recruitment, and in paragraph 6 to submit an accounting report to the staff of the public system in Galicia, we also agree on that, Mr. Torrado. We fully trust in transparency and good governance of the People's Party. We know that it works and manages to ensure that our health meets the highest standards of quality, protecting the best possible health of the Greeks. And we don't have any repairs on these two points either; we also agree. We are going to vote in favour of everything, Mr. Torrado, and we hope that you will dare to put some task to your Government, and we really hope and hope that you will have more success with this so necessary and so requested — and in addition to the fact that we are all in agreement — the removal of the replacement rate, for the improvement of our health services. We can hardly improve them when it comes to staff recruitment if we don't eliminate the said rate. Nothing else and thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u103	Good afternoon. So I'm going to start by saying that I agree, as Mr. Torrado, a member of the Socialist Party, began with the statement that health care policies are the result of a political position, and I add that I am the result of an ideological decision; an ideological decision that is not casual, that does not have to do with a last-minute decision, but it is a decision that has a trajectory. One of the last steps was the 2008 crisis, where it was used as a perfect alibi to take measures to cut public services in general and health in particular; the crisis as an alibi to implement a neoliberal roadmap of public cuts and convert essential public services, as is the case with health, as may be the case with education, social services, in business niche for the private sector, particularly for multinationals, who are at the bottom making decisions, venture capital funds, vote funds, and those decisions soon come up with these consequences; and these decisions are taken and will soon be being implemented. In the Spanish State, 15 % less budget than in the EU average in health. We're talking about a really important difference. The average in the Spanish state is EUR 1,600, when, for example, Norway or Germany invests EUR 4,000 per person or Denmark and Sweden, 3,000. Of course, we're talking about that in the Spanish state it's 1,600 and in Galicia, 1,523, even less. So the difference is that in Galicia there is a difference of less than EUR 2,477 per person; that is, Germany spends EUR 2,477 more per year for every German than in Galicia for every Greek or Greek. And of course, these decisions, these investments have consequences, and the consequence is a health system, as I said in the defense of the motion I presented before, where their quality is directly on the back of the health care staff; a health system with strengths, but the fortress is a very exploited, very precarious health staff and with very poor working conditions. And if anything evidenced by this crisis, this pandemic of the coward, was the most valuable, most valuable system, which is his staff; magnificent professionals, who once again gave the best of themselves, that we enthusiastically applauded them in the balconies, on the balconies, but that, past the time of confinement, we returned, as a system, to have them in the same conditions of precariousness and overexploitation as they were before. And it's a staff who's been suffering years of precariousness, of temporality, of saturation, who's sick of being blown by the magnificent ones who are, but that those couches don't turn into performances. And what the healthcare professionals need is that they respect their rights, decent working conditions, decent wage conditions as well. So in order to take these measures, one must start from a certain diagnosis, not from the combat position; that is, if the Socialist Party is in the government of the state, the People's Party in the Union shoots, and if it's the other way around, for the same thing. Because we are going to the first of the points of this motion, which obviously BNG is going to vote in favour, to vote in favour of supporting all institutional initiatives and actions that facilitate the implementation of elimination measures. Why don't we call things by their name? That is already eliminated once and for all by the rate of replacement, promised by all the world and never implemented, promised again and again and again and again, because, in fact, we see again at the sectoral table in Madrid the refusal to eliminate the rate of replacement, which in the State budget project remains that rate of replacement. [[Applause]] You have no justification if it's not related to what I've been saying before. In order not to have precarious public services and that multinationals and companies enter these public services in bags to turn them into business niches, we need to have a system and some professionals in these conditions, because the replacement rate is nothing but to eliminate professionals from the system. If, approved in 2010, until 2015, only 10% of the people who retired were able to recover, we're talking about 90 % of pensions produced for five years are not recovered on the system. And there are many thousands of squares. So, in order for these squares to be recovered, not to be deleted and from the year 2016, but to be able to recover all those years, it is necessary to remove that replenishment rate. It's not good that from here on we can restore all the troops, because we leave many on the road, which are also essential places to have the right quality of care. That is why, of course, we are going to vote in favour, just as we are voting in favour of the increase in the MIR squares. In short, vote in favour of planning. I no longer know how many times I have said here in this parliament that in 2010 Sergas made a human resources plan, and in that human resources plan — it is there for anyone who wants to see it — the number of troops to retire in the coming years, mainly optional and nursing. We're talking about 2010, ten years ago, it's not a new survival of a couple of months ago, not a couple of years ago, not with the pandemic; at least ten years ago, of that human resources plan that already gave that diagnosis, -- I insist -- plan made by Sergas himself. What did Sergas do? He put it in a drawer and didn't act to solve a problem that came to us. Why didn't he act? Because he didn't want to act, because what he did was let things flow to get to this point and be able to say that there are no professionals. And that will be discussed at another time, whether there really are no professionals or what policies are being carried out so that there are no such professionals, which recruitment policies to expel them decisively. And we could talk about the fitness certificates that are made every year, and that means a lot of professionals asking for those certificates to go to work outside. We can talk about how many professionals finish the MIR and not stay in Sergas; we can talk about almost half. And that has to do with not replacement fees anymore but also with the management of human resources and the resources that Sergas has to act and is not doing. So I'm glad the People's Party also fell off the road to Damascus and is in favour of making a staff accounting report. Because the BNG brought here, this parliament, a number of times, the subject of having a square identification system. Obviously, what you put here is not a square identification system, it's bringing a singing report in 2019 and 2020. But we have brought here on numerous occasions a square identification system that allowed us to know what the staff situation is: how many structural squares?, how many are permanently occupied?, how many are temporary?, what is rotation? And they're systematically refusing to have that identification system. Why? Because that data would put against the mirror which is the recruitment system they have in Sergas, they would put against the mirror — I said in the previous intervention — how systematically converts 750 new contracts into the same contracts that ended last month, or put against the mirror the 3,500 —4,000, according to the day — of the President of the Board, who then one day escaped him who is talking about contracts, not staff; of course, they would put against the mirror really that situation of the staff, which, I insist, is the most valuable thing the system has, but it is also the most battered one. BNG is going to vote in favour of this initiative and, as in the previous one, we hope that it will move from role to reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Motion author group, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u105	Thank you, President. Well, I would like to thank the support expressed by the two groups, with their respective — natural — discrepancies about the initiative, but I think it might be of interest. I'd like to need some questions. You said, Mr. Friend, at first, that you have to be rigorous in the data, because I quoted your budgets to talk about staff and came here to answer me. I'm going to give you the exact data I quoted; I cited 1,100 professionals less in primary care in eleven years. As you told me that it had to be necessary, I will give the exact data: in 2009, in primary care, 9,610 professionals — the budget published by the Galician Board approved in this parliament —; the budget for 2020 — approved in this parliament — in primary care, staff, 8,448; 9,610 in the 2009 budget, 8,448 in 2020; I said 1,100, I said, I was not accurate, 1,162 professionals were lost; I was being a little bit more livian with the PP government and you were a little harder. But, well, if you want us to be so hard, it's okay. I also see that you are tough with the PP government because they present an amendment that is basically -- allow me to say it -- paint it in the face of Rajoy's government; and we agree, as it could not be otherwise. Why do you introduce yourself as an amendment here? So pay attention to an April 2018 interterritorial agreement. Well, what does that deal say? Hey!, to be able to convene MIR squares it's essential to believe a lot and it's not being done; and you're right; April 2018. But, of course, it was in April 2018 that he had been ruling the People's Party for years, and you appeal to an interterritorial agreement that says, "Hey!," you speed up the accreditations, which are not doing it. Well, we've shared something else. There's a problem of looking up to that moment, because the Rajoy government must have left it in a drawer and since there were no computers that destroyed it there, no one opened it at any time. And that was a serious problem. Well, we've got a second advance! [[Applause]] We know who paralyzed the MIRs, it's only enough to recognize that Mr. Rajoy's next government — not quote, which is not going to be aggravating the caterpillar, which makes them a little nervous — has called for the greatest MIR in history. And it's fine, because the Greek Government has also done something good, which is to take advantage of these MIRs and summon as many squares as possible, especially in family and community medicine and pediatrics. And, therefore, there are things that everyone has done well and things that they've done wrong probably everyone. But it's good that you put in this whole initiative the only amendment that is to remember that the problem was in the Rajoy Government. And it's okay. I don't know if it's the way from Damascus -- it must be the way to the center -- that you're getting your point back; and okay, we agree. And some more punctuation on two important themes. One, the replenishment rate — as it is not! — and another, on stability. On the replacement rate, I think it is important to quote that it is well to support initiatives that can be carried out. I say this because the replenishment rate has been promoted on the basis of the agreement — I quoted it here once, but it must be that they want to hear it again — in the Congressional Reconstruction Commission, and I remind them that they voted against it. I didn't mention any of the parties in particular. I can look both ways. So it's okay. Then in the plenary of Congress it is true that if the People's Party was convinced that he had voted in favour because he was under other conditions, he didn't care about the replacement rate, he cared about other things. By the way, let me have a detail, as they always remember this they asked Minister Dolors Montserrat. I have already commented here several times — so let it fall — to see if I can share that letter that they said they presented — I say because they always say to me: yes, yes, we already made it easier for you, but not yet; that letter, that record where they asked for it at that time, in 2017 — they always quote it — to see if it's possible they can share it with me. Let's see if it's not gonna be that you're going to have to eliminate the replenishment rate, let's have another crisis in ten years, let's have to put it back, and in 2050, and I don't know how many people are here asking for that letter and they're going to pass to you in 2017, which may also be! It's a letter, it's a letter nothing more, you don't have to spend on paper, you can even send it by email. [[Applause]] But they already told me three times here that they were going to give it to me because it showed that I wasn't telling any truth. And, then, I thank you very much -- I look at how many times I'm wrong, but it's very good when I'm wrong -- that you can prove it to me. So, see if you can make it easy, see if you're going this time. And finally, I was quoting you, Mrs. Friend — and I think it is well — the recent pact these days. All right, but I'm going to do an appreciation, within the nature that we can fully approve this, because we have no problem with accepting the amendment and, therefore, we will all vote in favour. It should be noted that this pact speaks of hiring nurses, especially at four months, some may reach one year, but it is made that they are almost 15%, almost every four months. How will the health system that you call stability to four-month contracts go? And this is the problem, which we think hiring four months is stability, health, four months! Man, it is equally possible — since when we discussed the continuity contract we talked about two or three years, and you from one to three years, which was always one — that now must be that the health thing must go much better and there is no problem in that instead of hiring between one and three — that is always one — they hire between four months and twelve months — that are always four —.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u106	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u107	When the situation gets worse, you hire less, and you keep calling it stability, and it's a problem. But, in any case, if we might be able to approve all this, it would be a good move. Looks like we're gonna do it. And I follow the wishes expressed by Mrs Prado, to see if it is also possible that, in addition to approving it, it will then be carried out; that this would seem surprising that it was not so, but in this parliament you never know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u108	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demands to be made to the Central Government in relation to the distribution of non-finalist transfers to the municipalities and the needs arising from the crisis of the covid-19
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u109	This motion was tabled an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u110	To formulate the motion you have the word Mr. Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u111	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. This initiative, this BNG motion, contains several proposals. You have eight points that can be summed up in one. You can summarize a proposal, which is: more resources for municipalities. This, of course, was necessary before now, but it is now essential, in this situation of health, social and economic emergency. This initiative is therefore about ending the suffocation, financial drowning, which is also part of the financial drowning suffered by the Galician Union by a system of purely unfair and discriminatory self-financing for our country. And this is not the time for the debate today, but I want to make it clear also in this respect that the BNG defends a concert system, because we are convinced it would be a much more beneficial system. I assumed hundreds of millions of euros a year to be able to invest on the part of the Galician Union and also on the municipalities in more investments, in more services, in more jobs and ultimately in more quality of life. Well, we're going to demean this proposal in the four big paragraphs it contains. And I also want to make it clear that these are not the proposals of the BNG, these are the proposals of the Fegamp, these are proposals that have been agreed unanimously, by all the political groups that we are represented here, in the board of directives of the Fegamp and also in the General Assembly of the Fegamp, which took place last year 2019 and of what I have here, which you too will have. The first of these concrete proposals is the demand to both the Union and the State for the transfer of extraordinary funds to the municipalities. It is clear that at present the State has more extraordinary funds. The state is transferring extraordinary funds to the Galician Union, but here the only administration that has to assume more competences — many of them imposed by the Galician Union — and that has no more resources to do so are the Town Councils. And we all know, we all know, that at this moment of emergency, the first door where people are going to crash is that of the county. People who are in a situation of extreme social need, who have no work, who have no resources, who do not have to eat, who go to the municipalities or food banks — who are also, in many cases, funded by the municipalities, or at least co-financed. So he draws attention to the fact that the People's Party, for example, asks — today we see the case of a council — the help of the municipalities for the self-employed sector — specifically in Pontevedra City Council called for nothing more and nothing less than 7 million euros of aid — when it does not do so where it has the skills to do so, which is in Galician Union. I'm dying, I'm dying! I'm no longer telling you the details of what you're proposing, because it's a real nonsense what you're proposing on these initiatives. So what we've been looking at over the years is that Junta imposes obligations on the municipalities — including by passing laws, such as animal welfare, shows, water supply — which involve more spending on the municipalities, but there is therefore no transfer of funds. And this affects all the municipalities. You should also worry about the municipalities where they're ruling. The second proposal has to do with the change of a structural issue, which is a local financing system which is prevailing in the Spanish State and which is clearly discriminatory for Galicia. We've been saying it for decades, we've been passing it for decades, and we have to change it. We have demonstrated — or has demonstrated to Fegamp — the scandalous and unjust discriminatory treatment suffered by the Greek municipalities by this distribution system, so they lose the Greek municipalities 135 million each year of what would be their own population. More than 2,000 million euros have ceased entering the Greek councils since 2004 for this discriminatory system. And it's all the same. And you know why it's all the same? Because you, as much as you vote here, when you're in the government in Madrid, keep this system that discriminates against Galicia. And then they don't want us to say that Madrid steals us. Of course he's stealing from us. Madrid robs us, and this is a very clear example: 2,000 million euros going to other places. This no longer takes into account that this system should take into account Galician reality. [[Applause]] Because the laws they do in Madrid, of course, don't make them think about Galicia. They don't think we have nearly half of the state's population, more than 30,000 of 61,000. And that means more expenses for water supply, for lighting, for roads, for sanitation, for providing telecommunications services, for collecting waste, for everything... and this is not taken into account in this system. So you have to change it and you have to apply it to each other when it comes to ruling in Madrid. They both have their responsibilities. The third proposal is another historic demand of the Fegamp, which is the change of the city council's participation system in the income of the Union. See, at this moment, this famous Local Cooperation Fund distributes less than a third of the money that the Union transfers to the municipalities, less than a third. And this is indefensible. What Fegamp is asking is that grants, at least non-finalist grants, and also those agreements that are assigned to the finger are part of the Local Cooperation Fund and that there is a more balanced, fairer and, of course, non-caciquil and partisan distribution of public funds. In other words, in the agreements — and I have already told you in the previous intervention scandalous cases such as that of the Galician Infrastructure Agency or that of the Environment Council, through the Hurbe Plan — 90%-95% of those who sign are for the People's Party councils. And that's not acceptable at this point in an advanced democracy of the 21st century. We have to change it, we have to change it! And this also has to be changed by a law, which is what you're asking for, by the way, Fegamp. Fegamp has asked for a law to shield this issue, so that it does not depend on the government of turn, so that all governments have to comply with a law and share in a balanced and fair manner the public funds, which is what citizens deserve. Citizens can't have a different treatment if they live in a municipality or on the side because they change the political color of the government. They have to get what's right, what they deserve, and it's their right. It can't be this discrimination. And, curiously, Mr. President of the Board in 2017, when he met with the President of the Fegamp, said solemnly — it is written in the press notes of the Board of Galicia —: "Faijóo - Feixóo - agrees with the President of the Fegamp to push an autonomous law to shield local cooperation." It was 2017. What was that law? You dare say here — you have seen the Vice-President of the Board say — that we cannot integrate the grants into the Local Cooperation Fund because the Fegamp does not agree. How they disagree! I have here the resolutions of the last assembly of the Fegamp and look at what it says in the 20th clause: "Requesting the progressive integration into the Local Cooperation Fund of aid and annual grants to local authorities by the Autonomous Community, for the most part, with regard to financial autonomy and local adequacy." Logically, the municipalities want to know how much they will receive annually. By the way, you have a path to follow, which is that of the Members who do these things well, who have been improving the way to do these things. I think the one who does it best is the Coruña. Lugo and Pontevedra have also moved a lot in this direction, and Ourense is out of what is a democratic system of distribution of public resources. Even if they don't like it, that's the reality. It's scandalously, shamefully, infamous what you do in the House of Ourense. But I'm going to leave this for later, that I've got another turn. And the last proposal is to change the laws that were also imposed from outside of Galicia, even outside of the state, which strangle the municipalities in their capacity for investment and expenditure — for example, the famous "Montor Law", the Budget Stability Act, and many more — on which there were also unanimous agreements in the Fegamp — of all political groups — to change them. And there's also the possibility of using the remnants and surpluses, which is now so necessary, to be able to invest that money in so many needs. We therefore make a proposal that I understand is reasonable, that I understand that it represents the feeling of majority — since all political groups in the Fegamp — that calls for more resources for the municipalities but also that it calls for more justice, more fairness, more transparency and more self-sufficiency of the municipalities in order to address their responsibilities, their competences, their needs, which are many, many, and very important at this time of serious economic, social and health emergencies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u112	Thank you, Mr Bará. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to contextualize my intervention, on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, in relation to municipal funding. Above all, we are in favour of local autonomy, and in no way can we allow this Parliament to undergo the Joint-Fegamp dialogue. In the past, the vice-president has already warned first that the Autonomous Administration and Fegamp are continuously collaborating in the defence of municipal interests, an institutional collaboration that enjoys good health and is chaired by the dialogue on local finance through the Permanent Sub-Commission of the Economic and Financial Regime. I don't know if I have to congratulate you, Mr Bará, because you have now been appointed a spokesman for this subcommittee or a spokesman for the Fegamp. I don't know very well on behalf of who you came here. What I do know is that this morning the president of the board met with his mayor of Pontevedra, Mr. Lores, and expressed the will to continue in the dialogue, and in a quite good climate of collaboration. You say no. I might have been a false posture, I don't know. I would rather think that yes, that this climate of collaboration and dialogue between the Union and the Fegamp is actually following. Look, Junta has been shown in the last eleven years of popular government that is next to the Town Councils. Galicia was a pioneer in setting in 2011 a model of stable participation of local entities in autonomous taxes with a guarantee of minimums, with a true share of income. Town Councils receive according to the incomes that the Union has. And the Local Cooperation Fund you know it's unconditional, and you guarantee at least what each council received in 2010. Even if the income of the board goes less, the councils will receive exactly the same. Of course, you had to go back to 2004 so they could tell you the story, Mr. Bará. Of course, that's cheating! You've been doing your business since 2009, which is since the People's Party's ruling. See, in 2009 the Local Cooperation Fund was EUR 112,972,806. This year, by 2020, it is 13.5 million euros plus 126,496,281. I mean, the figures are what they are, Mr Bará, there's no trap or card here. You can say it's less; but, look, 126 is 13.5 million euros more than 112. You used to say, "More resources for municipalities." You try to generate confusion about the identification of the competitive competition regime, as if it were unequal or subjective. Well, see, in 2020, more than 70% of the call for aid from the Union, which has as beneficiaries the Greek municipalities, have established themselves in a competitive competition regime, more than 70%! And, of course, you come here with a victimistic speech, of discrimination based on the political color and speak of the House of Ourenses. Let's talk about the Deputies of Lugo and Pontevedra. Let's talk about them. You're talking about agreements. Deputy of Lugo: agreements in 2016, 2017 and 2018 with People's Party councils, 26.99 % money since Deputy of Lugo; PSOE and BNG municipalities, 72.5%. And it's not the percentage that you have of ruling us with the color PSOE and BNG, Mr Bará! But, look, in the Deputy of Pontevedra, at the conventions of the year 2018: PP, EUR 403.019; PSOE and BNG, EUR 14.961.111. Well, look, speaking in your language, it is scandalous, Mr Bará!, scandalous!, it is unacceptable in a democracy of the 21st century! These are the conventions of the Parliament of Pontevedra. [[Applause]] As much as you're trying to cover this up with Ourense, with the Union... impossible, it's impossible to cover up, Mr. Bará! Look, you talk about more resources for the municipalities. Of education you haven't talked here today, I suppose you'll talk in second place, and I'm sure the Socialist Party's voicer too. Because she, specifically, brought to the commission a report from the Deputy of the Crown to say that the expenses of anti-vial disinfection in public educational centers of autonomous ownership must be assumed by the Council of Galicia. Of course, but as he explained in the commission, he said that this couldn't be from the Town Councils. Of course, autonomical ownership must be effectively assumed by the Galician Union. And that's right, they're assumed by the Galician Union. They can't manipulate those reports. The extraordinary expenses of centres of autonomous ownership correspond to the Junta; those of municipal ownership, to the municipalities; and those of private ownership, to the private centres. Or do you want them, regardless of the title of the educational centres, to be assumed by the Council of Galicia, Mr Bará and the spokesman of the Socialist Party — who will then speak? Of course, but there is also a report from the Parliament of Pontevedra — which is not suspected of being the People's Party, is it? — and also a report from the judicial services of the Galician Union, which speaks of that Article 252(n) of the Law on Local Law on Basics of Education establishes that the conservation, maintenance and monitoring of local buildings intended for public centres of child education, primary and special education corresponds to the municipalities — as does the Organic Law of 3 May, of education, in its additional provision 10th fifth. But it goes further to the report of the Parliament of Pontevedra, and in paragraph 3)di: "The only normative reference that regulates the disinfection of the cod as the basic legislation of the State in the teaching centres is the Royal Decree-Law 21/2020, of June 9th, of urgent measures of prevention, containment and coordination to deal with this crisis. Educational administrations must ensure compliance by the holders of teaching, public or private schools." If they have to guarantee this, they will have to ensure that their owners are the ones who disinfect them; if they are public and ownership of the municipality, the municipality; if they are private, companies that manage these private educational centres. And in the Union, the Union is also in charge of this disinfection. What the report does not say is whether it has to be either the Union or the State, which are both health authorities, who are paying those costs. And what makes that competition inappropriate to the county? For the decree of the State. And if it's the State that gives this inappropriate competition, it's the State that has to give the resources to assume that inappropriate competition, let's get as they stand, ladies and gentlemen. What happens is that it's easier to ask the Autonomous Community because it's from the PP. So clear and so simple. Look, you ask the Board what they are unable to ask the State, Mr. Bará. Why don't you ask the state for that? Oh, no! That's not what we asked him to do. Spain robs us, Madrid steals us, but the government of Sánchez doesn't steal us, does it? They only steal strangers here. Not at all, Mr. Bará! Look, the problem, and what became absolutely clear, is that Members no longer want to take on the role of assisting municipalities that have difficulty expanding their competences. The deputies are going to issue balloon reports outside and a little more? Deputies must ensure the full and adequate provision of public services throughout the province, as required by Article 109 of the Galician Local Administration Act. And I wonder, what happens then to the increase in expenditure that generates the collection of urban waste, who assumes it? What about the increase in work the local police have in the municipalities? Because you've got to take on a lot more work, both to guarantee the issue of gatekeepers and compliance with the rules. And the increase in social spending, Mr. Bará? That's what I'd like to talk about. Look, who has to take that expense? Because Junta has taken up a lot of these social expenses. Do you know that, out of the 17 million euros that transferred the Government of Spain to Galicia's board for social expenditure, the Union has allocated 8.8 million euros to the municipalities? I mean, more than half of the money that Junta received from the state for social spending sent them to the municipalities. Of course, you say I'm the first door to the city council. Well, yes, but I wonder, were the municipalities able to manage that money that he gave them? Look, of these 8.8 million euros, 6 million went to the home aid service. I'm going to tell you one case — very sad, by the way — that we live in Santiago Town Hall, that of an 84-year-old marriage. They both lived in their home, she had a respiratory infection and he had recently operated on colon cancer and a bag that had to change twice a day. They don't know if the caretaker or one of the children infects them with cowardice. She dies a week and he's left alone. The children are confined to their homes for being in touch with a coward; and the caretaker, likewise. They transfer to the social worker of the Town Hall of Santiago an extraordinary aid for home help, and she was denied. Mr. Bará, don't say here again that you won't let anyone stay behind. The Town Hall of Santiago is ruled by the Socialist Party and supported by the Galician Nationalist Block. What did they do about the money that moved him to Galicia's board for that extraordinary social spending of the vault? Tell him, tell him! Because, of course, just like those people left behind, I want to ask myself: if that family had no right to a home help service to change a bag twice a day in a situation of hideous infection, you tell me who gives those help. [[Applause]] You say Spain steals us. What is the meaning of stealing? Well, look, according to RAG, it's appropriating something that belongs to another person or that rightly corresponds to him. For 200 million EVI have been adapted, 100 million have been appropriated for the formation of unemployed, budgeted for the Housing Plan, 236 million have been appropriated for education and — the queen of appropriation — 1.3 billion of the city council's savings. What's the matter is that this fallout didn't work out for them, Mr. Bará. But there they had the stellar intervention of a socialist who shines in his own light, Mr. Senior Knight — but with the support of Mr. Knight Junior. Because, look, you say, "Madrid in the clothes." I don't know if Spain steals us, if Madrid steals us, if Sánchez steals us. What is clear is that there are very serious injustices that are being committed with Galicia, with the Greeks and with the Greeks...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u114	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u115	...because there are those who are putting the interests of the socialists, the nationalists, the independentists and the communists above the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u117	Thank you, Mr. President. The truth is, Mrs. Prado del Río, today you seem to come a little abrogated. In any case, Mr Bará, we fully agree with you that the initiatives we bring here the opposition groups to this House are therefore to support and to bring more resources to the councils according to the agreements that are approved in the heart of the Fegamp. And in addition, they are unanimously approved by all political groups, including the People's Party, Mrs. Prado del Río. And you say we have to hold a different meeting here than the Fegamp. Well, I understood something like that. But, look, the Fegamp agreements have to be materialized in the institutions that legislate in order to be carried out; and therefore, of course, they have to come to this Parliament in order to be approved. Even though we already know that with the People's Party's knee, which votes for things in the Fegamp and other different things in Parliament, they probably don't go ahead. And, look, Mrs Prado, what you were talking about on the Local Cooperation Fund is not true. In 2000 it was agreed that the Local Cooperation Fund was an unconditional, unconditional fund! And what the Council of Galicia has done in recent years is to make complementary accounts that are not unconditional, and that cannot therefore be entered into the Local Cooperation Fund, because they are for merged councils — those wonderful ones announced by the President of the Galician Council and that will end all the problems of the Galician municipality — for those who have prisons, for those who have to meet the commitments that you do not attend to the local Covenant to meet the operating costs of primary education centres, or to meet the health centres, which are currently in charge of the municipalities. Returning to the initiative itself, the Spanish Constitution and the European Charter of Local Self-Government lay down and enshrine the principles of autonomy and financial adequacy of local authorities. The Galician Autonomy Statute provides that income from local authorities will be received through the Autonomous Community of Galicia, which will distribute them in accordance with the legal criteria it establishes, both for state revenue and for unconditional grants. And the Law governing the local bases of regime itself — which, by the way, was amended in 2013 when the People's Party was ruling in the State, Mr. Mariano Rajoy— states that, "for the effectiveness of the constitutionally guaranteed autonomy to local authorities, the legislation of the State and the autonomous communities, which regulates the various sectors of public action according to the constitutional distribution of competences, it must ensure to the Councils their right to intervene in how matters directly affect the circle of their interests, giving them the powers to address the characteristics of the public activity concerned and the management capacity of the local entity, in accordance with the principles of decentralization, proximity, efficiency and efficiency, and with close subjection to the regulation of budgetary stability and financial sustainability". And then Article 105 states that, according to the legislation provided for in Article 5, "will provide local holdings with sufficient resources for the purposes of local authorities". Thus, the principle of financial adequacy implies that the local authorities in Greece should have sufficient means for the performance of the functions conferred on them by the laws, and that they should be fed from taxes and participation in the income of the State and the Autonomous Community of Galicia. You know perfectly well that the local government of Greece is characterized by an important budgetary rickets in which those committed exceed the financial resources they count to be able to attack them, yet the local administration is the most important player in the face of citizenship due to their approach. The local Covenant, signed between the Galega Federation of Municipalities and Provinces — the Fegamp — and the Government, headed by Emilio Pérez Touriño in 2006, was a fundamental step towards the formulation of various initiatives that have been launched since the Government of Galicia. By the way, Mrs. Prado del Río, today that local pact, signed in 2006, is not yet fully developed. On 14 February 2017, the Fegamp Executive Commission unanimously approved a document with the demands for funding for the debate to reform the local farm law. These proposals have been materialized in a document — probably all Members and Members of this House know — entitled Executive Summary of the Committee on Analysis for the Study and Proposal for Measures to Reform the Rules governing local farms. It is a document consisting of three points and with a hundred proposals — past, introduction and proposals —. And at this last point, the proposals deal with several sections, including local funding, participation in the income of the Autonomous Community and transfers through grants. By the way, we're going to bring more initiatives to see you that these transfers of what you're talking about, in the case of the Galician Union and the whole autonomic sector, have a lot, a lot, to get them out of their colors. Because in all those that are done through agreements, most of the municipalities subsidized — we can say that in 80% of cases — they have a government of the People's Party. And we don't know if that's an objective criterion for the distribution of these agreements to the finger. Well, on all these bases that have already been approved in the Fegamp — as mentioned earlier — other administrations, including the deputies — the Coruña, Lugo and Pontevedra — have waged for this change — approved in the bosom of Fegamp — by approving the Single Plan of Towns, in which the old investment plans and certain lines of grants are unified in a single annual call. And in addition, it allows the municipalities not only better planning — which is also important — but more agility in processing, greater local autonomy to decide on — the local governments themselves, who enjoy that autonomy — where they want to allocate these funds, and greater transparency in the allocation of resources. At the last meeting, at the X General Assembly of the Fegamp, developed on 29 November 2019, the demands adopted unanimously by the political groups — of all groups — go in the same direction as the document adopted in 2017, and point out that local entities are a key administration within the territorial organization of the State, mainly as a closer administration to citizenship. After the economic crises we were living in 2008 and in which we are suffering at this time because of the coward-19, thanks to the immediate response of the councils, many people have avoided their economic exclusion and their social exclusion. The municipalities, in spite of their budgetary rickets, acted to meet their neighbours, acted to care for the most vulnerable people and avoid that economic exclusion and social exclusion. They increased their social emergency accounts, re-created municipal wardrobes, set up food-collection campaigns, paid rents to prevent releases, helped their children to be educated in normal conditions, funded the "Roading" services, acted to make reforms and improvements in educational centres — which Junta did not attend — to avoid such precariousness in public centres, acted to care for victims of gender-based violence — by taking care of women and helping their children and their daughters, acted by assuming greater funding in children's schools and day-care centres, and they acted by taking on an important number of inappropriate skills to meet the needs of their citizens. The Socialists will therefore vote in favour of this motion, which goes in the same direction as many initiatives brought to this Parliament by our group during this last legislative session. In fact, within a few moments we will also have the opportunity to debate a non-law proposition brought by the socialists. And by the way, something I wanted to comment on is a press release, published by the Ministry of Business, of 5 October 2020, referred to the Minister of Fairy himself, who says: "The Minister of Fairy emphasizes his commitment to equip the municipalities with sufficient resources to cope with the effects of the Covid-19." No, we don't act the same, Mrs. Prado del Río, we don't act the same. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u118	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u119	While the Government of the State is assisting the autonomous communities and municipalities so that no one is left behind, you get ridiculous help that doesn't allow sectors, self-employed people and people at risk of poverty to get out of that situation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u120	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u121	Learn from the state! Learn from the state! Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence! Please! You know the subject of... No, no, it's not with you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm talking to them. It's about the aerosols. Please, let's take this into account. Let's keep this in mind. You can't throw up like that, watch out! Please, caution, he's looking at us many people! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the motion's own group, Mr. Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u123	Mrs. Prado, I don't know what you think this Parliament is for. If you think it's for us to give your ears to the People's Group, it's not for that. This Parliament, among other things, is to bring forward proposals here in agreement, for example, on matters which are negotiated and agreed in the heart of the Fegamp. We have all the legitimacy, of course, and all the obligation to bring them here to be approved and transferred to the Government. But it's going to be this! Do you mind if we bring here accords from the Fegamp assembly? [[Murmurs.]] So, what's the problem? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What's the matter? [[Murmurs.]] I suppose you'll agree, because this has already been agreed upon by all groups in the Fegamp. Anyway! Look, you came here, completely defensive, talking to me about things I hadn't talked about. So he didn't do well with his intervention. And then, look, another thing you can't do is lie, because lying is sin. Lying — at least in the Christian doctrine of the ten commandments — is sin. [[Laughter]] So be very careful because you're going to have to confess, because you can't lie saying that the Deputy of Pontevedra has signed agreements... because it's not true! [[Laughter]] That's not true! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u124	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u125	The Deputy of Pontevedra did what he did was to increase, with respect to the People's Party, the Town Hall Fund in more than 12 million for a fair and fair distribution. And then, with the rest, what they did was a call for projects to which all the municipalities could be presented, and which were barred and valued by public officials. What are you saying, that public officials acted in bad faith to benefit some municipalities and to harm others? That's an infamy and a slander. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And they should take it off because it's not true. [[Murmurs.]] And I'm not going to tell you what's going on — since it's an example to follow — in the Coruña, Lugo and Pontevedra with regard to Ourense. Ourense divides 6% of its budget into local background, 6%!, when in the Coruña it is 45%. And, look, I'll tell you more. I would make the proposal to the Councils of Ourense — to the PP too, eh! — that they choose if they would like to be more — proportionally with respect to population and budget — in the distribution of the Coruña or in Ourense, or in Pontevedra or in Lugo. They would run to another province, because it's a fairer deal, a fairer deal. Of course you do! And you're upset about that. Tell him about the... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u126	I've already told him three times.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u127	Don't listen! [[Murmurs.]] Look, it's just that the data are irrebatable, and when there are numbers they shut down beards -- or whatever it is. The Crown Deputy — 2015 – the last year of the People's Party —: EUR 36 million from the Town Council Fund, Single Plan; 2020, 100 million, 100 million! [[Murmurs.]] Of course! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's no wonder the Town Councils of the People's Party are having a party. They'll say, "Let's rule the left in the deputies, because they give more money than our own governments!" In fact, Pontevedra: 30 million in 2015 — governing the People's Party in Deputation — and 42 million in 2020. [[Applause]] So, all the Town Councils of the People's Party are partying because they receive more funds from the deputies when they rule the BNG or the PSOE than when they rule the People's Party. Look at what it's like to use institutions to treat everyone the same! So let's look at how to use institutions to treat everyone equally. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Then you try to confuse by mixing the single fund with project summons. [[Murmurs.]] No, no, projects... ; DepoRemse projects... [[Murmurs.]] [[Mr. Pazos Couñago pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u128	Mr. Peace, please be quiet. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u129	...and projects of funds for municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants, by the way.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u130	But you're nervous about this intervention, please! Quiet! Let's take it easy. No, it's not with you... [[Mr. Bará Torres turns to the president from the stage.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u131	Yes, yes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u132	I'm asking for some quiet. We have to take this easy, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u133	But stop the clock.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u134	You too. He's right. I'll figure it out later. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u135	It's over to finish. We are not going to accept your amendment because it seems to us a reductionist amendment, a lack of ambition that wants to empty out of content issues that are already agreed upon in the Fegamp. It is therefore pointless to limit the scope of agreements and the ambition of the agreements we propose on this initiative. So we're not going to accept them. But the problem is not the lack of ambition for his amendments, the problem is the lack of soul of his speeches, the lack of soul; because they come here criticizing that if a council has eliminated I don't know that, a grant, a help from the SAF... but if you have just told the municipalities that they will withdraw the extraordinary SAF from November 30! That's being an absolutely soulless government! What do you mean, if there's the communication they just made? [[Applause]] How dare you come here to criticize that a council didn't give the SAF to a person if you're taking thousands of people away at a time of extreme need like this? [[Mr. Prado del Río denies with her hand.]] People who are in a situation... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u136	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u137	...unsustainable. That's a government not without ambition, it's a soulless government, and that's why we don't pass. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u138	Thank you, Mr Bará. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u139	At the end of the debate on motions, we begin the votes. First, we voted for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Ms. Maria Monserrat Prado Cores. The vote was accepted by points and I am told whether we can vote, firstly, on the following points: 1, 4, 5, 6 and 9. So we are going to vote, in particular, on these points: 1, 4, 5, 6 and 9. We vote. Vote of points 1, 4, 5, 6 and 9 of the G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Monserrat Prado Cores, on the actions to be carried out by the Government to ensure health care for citizens. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. The voting is positive. These points were therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u140	We now vote on the rest of the points: 2, 3, 7 and 8. We vote. Vote of points 2, 3, 7 and 8 of the G.P. Motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Monserrat Prado Cores, on the actions to be carried out by the Government to ensure health care for citizens. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. These points are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u141	We are now voting on the motion of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Julio Torrado. Amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group is accepted. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the training and recruitment of staff for the public health system of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u142	We now vote on the motion from the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Mr. Xose Luís Bará. The amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group is not accepted. We vote. [[Mr Prado del Río asks for a word.]] Yes, Mrs. Prado, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u143	I wanted to ask if we can vote separately on point 8.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u144	Do you accept, Mr Bará, that point 8 is being voted separately? [[Assentment.]] So we proceed to vote, first of all, point 8. We vote. Vote of point 8 of the G.P. Motion. the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demands to be made by the central government in relation to the distribution of non-finalist transfers to the municipalities and the needs arising from the crisis of coward-19. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. The voting is positive. Point 8 was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u145	Let's vote for the rest of the points now. We vote. Voting of the motion of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, except point 8, at the initiative of Mr. Xosé Luís Bará Torres, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece and the demands to be made by the Central Government in relation to the distribution of non-finalist transfers to the municipalities and the needs arising from the crisis of coward-19. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u146	The motions have been put to the end and we continue with the agenda, with point 4 of the agenda, which is for appearances. Accumulation of two appearances for their joint exposure Comparison of the infrastructure and mobility advisor, on his own request, to report on the situation and measures taken by the Greek Government in the face of the turbulent situation of the Eume River and its impact on water supply in Pontedeume Comparability of the Infrastructure and Mobility Adviser, at the request of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, to account for the state of environmental deterioration and contamination of the river Eume
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u147	To formulate the appearance, you have the word of the Infrastructure and Mobility Advisor, Ms. Ethel Vázquez Mourelle.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u148	President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make my own request in this House to take account of the decisions we have taken and the actions we have carried out since the Greek Government in the event of the turbidity that presented the Eume River and the impact of this circumstance on water supply to the Pontedeume Town Hall. A serious situation, without palliatives, that I assumed the people of Pontedeme and part of Cabanas were without drinking water for about ten days. An episode in which the Council of Galicia first engaged itself in seeking, on the one hand, to be agile, to be effective and, on the other hand, so that those responsible for succeeding assumed the inescapable consequences of their actions. So it's an appearance -- I think it's a coincidence -- to transfer this House transparency -- as we're always working -- and to tell you about all the actions, actions and measures we've been implementing since Galicia and to explain it to the politicians of this House. First of all, for the tranquility of all the neighbors of Pontedeume - said the director of the Waters of Galicia -, the episode of turbidity at no time assumed or led to the presence of toxicity in the water. The constant analyses carried out, which are, of course, to be carried out, as they see; also the Natural Heritage Technicians of the Environmental Council confirm that no damage has occurred in wildlife or fish mortality, and neither has been detected, as confirmed by the Council of the Sea, variations that caused some type of disease to molluscs or other marine organisms in the river. The results of the sediment samples we take also reveal levels of usual parameters of the area's ecology, and without removing relevance and gravity to the matter, it doesn't seem justified at all that alarmism some people move and what they want to cling to. I can assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that our priority is always to guarantee the health of citizens and the quality of water to our neighbours. I come here with the utmost tranquility, with the utmost confidence and the utmost security of duty accomplished. This does not prevent me, of course, from putting me on the role of many of Pontedeme's neighbors, who have been without water for ten days and with those inconveniences, and regret it, but we move confidence, peace and security. Secondly, we also act promptly, with responsibility and with strength and also with a spirit of collaboration at all times, because they know perfectly well that the direct managers of the supply of water to the population and to guarantee the quality of water to the population are the local authorities — the municipal betrayal. And all these actions we made on foot by the river. The river's foot has been both the Galician Water Technicians — the quality of the waters — and the director of the waters and myself, who have moved to the place. From the very first moment we urged the exploiting company to take the appropriate measures to minimize the turbidity of the Eume River. From the very first moment -- and so I said the same day I moved -- we opened an investigation and, therefore, we acted immediately because the circumstances required it. They all know that water is an essential basic service, and availability and quality must be guaranteed. And it's a competition, an obligation, of local administrations, of public administrations. The Galician Union has an obligation to see that the water that is consumed has guarantees and that quality is met in the parameters set. So for public administrations it's an obligation, and for citizens it's a right to consume quality water, quality parameters, and health guarantees. Therefore, restrictions on water consumption have since forced to act quickly, but it is twice as necessary in the face of an episode as we have seen, in which the neighbors of Pontedeme were left without drinking water. It must be borne in mind that supplies at Pontedeme Town Hall serve 11,000 inhabitants and distributes more than 3,000 cubic metres of water a day. We act, as I said, with consistency, with transparency, but also with responsibility, as a direct consequence of fulfilling our obligations. In the field of affection, we act with diligence and responsibility, because this was what forced the situation. We were in an area that affected the Natural Park of the Strawberries of the Eume, with relevance, with singularity, of environmental protection, and also to preserve marine activity. And we did it, even though sanitation, purification, and, as this case is what we're talking about, water supply to the quality population is a municipal responsibility. In any case, I believe that it is known from everyone that the Board is strongly supporting all local entities in the field of hydraulic infrastructures for optimal management of hydraulic infrastructures. And a good example is precisely that of Pontedeume, where we are dealing with hydraulic infrastructure, financed entirely by the Galician Waters, by the Galician Union, in sanitation — which is also a municipal competition. And it doesn't reveal any secret if I tell you that a good part of the budget of the board I have the honour to run is precisely for that, to ensure and enable the supply, sanitation and purification services to be as effective as possible. Here's the data, ladies and gentlemen: EUR 1,100 million since 2009, 300 supply-related events in 165 municipalities since 2009, and 45 debuggers and therefore 1.7 million Greeks with a debugging system, which means two-thirds of our population. And as I said, we act hard. And we act hard not only to seek solutions — which, of course, also — but also to clear responsibility. At the same time that we detected turbidity — which was related to the bad practice of the exploitation of coronation — he gave direct instructions to the exploiting company to take all relevant measures to achieve that turbidity as soon as possible. As I said, the next step was also the investigation to clarify all the concrete facts that caused the turbidity and impact it on whoever was responsible for that situation. Our position, therefore, is clear and unequivocal that no aggression against the quality of water and the environment can be unpunished. And, ladies and gentlemen, in order to ensure quality supply — which they know is municipal responsibility, in this case of the Pontedeume Council — the Council met at the Council of Galicia in full collaboration. Always, from the very first moment, he was next to the Town Hall of Pontedeme, because it was impossible for him to perform this duty. We've been in direct and permanent contact with the Pontedeme Town Hall and also with the water dealership company there in that county. We have always been involving in our decisions the municipal officials, and consensualizing all the actions and being always proactive in seeking solutions, because it was essential to guarantee the quality of water to all the neighbors of Pontedeume and of Cabanas — which have been supplied with drinking water since that system of exploitation. And we have always been willing to provide technical means, material means, whatever was necessary to solve this problem. This collaboration is extended to all municipalities. And we are doing this, with the common objective of ensuring supply, water quality and environmental quality, in all the municipalities of Galicia that need collaboration. For greater transparency about what happened in the turbulent episode of the Eume River, which took them away for ten days the possibility of supplying water to Pontedeme's neighbours, because I will focus my intervention on explaining for the most part what we've done. And, ladies and gentlemen, these are the facts. In the first days, in October, before the worrying level of turbidity that the river presented, the municipalities were alerted and we worked on different lines of action. One of the first steps — of course, logical — was to strengthen the inspections and analyses of Eume's water to know the source and extent of these changes. The conclusion — part of the obvious turbidity of water that we all know — is that there was neither pH nor oxygen change nor any species mortality. They know that there is already a routine monitoring of the quality of the water, which is marked by the Galician Hydrological Plan. In the Eume's coronation it was routinely doing these analytics at different points of the river and of the coronation, and with varying frequencies. There are three control points — specifically one above the reef and two below the waters. But from the moment we detected this state of turbidity, it was reinforced with an extraordinary surveillance plan, reinforcing, of course, the analyticals and inspections in the coronation and also in the river. There were two control points, with daily analyses across the water column vertically, in different depths, of parameters such as temperature, pH, oxygen, chlorophyll and turbidity. It was also made weekly of metallic substances. And so did they in the river. Therefore, in the choir and in the river we substantially and extraordinarily strengthen all our inspections and analyses. In the river, at five checkpoints, numerous parameters were analyzed daily; and weekly also the solid metal substances. In addition, weekly catalogues of solids were also made for X-ray diffraction to determine the different types of compounds — at three different points: at the exit of the clutch, at the return and at the capture. And it was also done on time in the sediments of the concoction. To these routine and extraordinary controls that we have made, we must add those which have made other departments — of which we have already reported — to those which have held the Health Council, those which have held the Environmental Council and those which have held the Council of the Sea. And also those of the environmental emergency specialists, accompanied by water quality technicians who traveled the river to tell them in detail the values of the measures that were in the river and in the coroner, and to take all necessary measures. On 9 October it was found that levels of turbidity reached parameters that were incompatible with human consumption, and without further delay we communicated this situation to the Council of Pontedeume. And the Pontedeme Town Hall, because it decided to prohibit the use of its supplies for human consumption, a measure that was effective on 10 November. When the Council of Pontedeme adopted this decision, there were already the technicians of the Council of Galicia next to the Council of Pontedeme working on it. And so, given the development of the events and proposals and the data that were being provided by Galician water professionals, the decision to place the containment barriers at the catchment point was adopted immediately, as soon as possible, because it was the most sensitive point, and to protect that point to facilitate the positability and treatment of water for supply. Without assuming an immediate solution, from then on it has contributed to a progressive recovery for supply. Physical-chemical treatments were also applied, in which we had to involve ourselves from the Galician Union to reduce the inlet turbidity of water, and the treatment of the debugger itself to make it fit for human consumption. However, in the face of the persistence of turbidity and the consequences of Pontedeme's supply, on the 13th day - so three days later - we declared the emergency, with an investment already specified and analysed and to be destined for the Pontedeme Town Hall of 1.5 million euros. This emergency could have been declared by the Council of Pontedeme, but we declared it. The Council of Pontedeme -- it's not surprising, it's a local administration -- it has the capacity to declare emergencies and to act immediately and urgently, but we decided it from Galicia's board because we had to act and because we wanted to return supplies to the population as soon as possible. This emergency statement allowed us to act urgently, effectively, swiftly, and to take all the measures we have seen necessary to alleviate the situation and correct the deficiencies detected, especially in the municipal potabilizer, which were the deficiencies that we clearly detected when we analyzed everything that was going on in relation to the water supply to Pontedeume in the municipal potabilizer. We were working there with works that are almost finished. And with all these managements, with this work, with speed, transparency and urgency, we managed to make the water drinkable for consumption and restore water supply to the neighbors of Pontedeme and also from Cabanas. By discount, we wanted to guarantee the quality of water in the Eume River and also at its mouth, avoiding any risk that would endanger water resources and aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems linked to these water masses, and we did it, as at first said, on the foot of the river. We traveled to the technical place of Galician Waters, the director of Galician Waters and myself, on the river foot, to help and to solve this situation as quickly as possible and, in addition, to follow up, because we are transparent and because we communicate in a transparent way, don't doubt it. At the initiative of the Council of Galicia - which could be at the initiative of the Pontedeume Council, but it was not - we created a follow-up commission involving the Council of Pontedeume, the Town Council of Cabanas, the company responsible for managing coronation, quality water technicians, also technical staff of the Environmental Council and the Intecmar. We set up this follow-up commission at the Galician board. On 20th that committee met to assess the situation and decided to lift the restrictions. Why? Because the performances we perform work and we see the parameters of turbidity fall. When you act with urgency, with urgency and with responsibility, you deliver results, as we did at the Galician Union. At the same time, we have opened a sanctioning file to the company which exploits the dam for failing to comply with the requirements made by the Galician Waters to follow the operating directives and plans to exploit the coronation. [[Applause]] So, ladies and gentlemen, we created this follow-up commission so that all the agents involved would be informed on time and offer maximum transparency, because that is how we always work. And on that line, you know, we have, of course, called a new follow-up commission for this same week to figure out everything we're seeing and all the actions we're doing, and that we're next to the Town Hall of Pontedeme in this situation from the first moment and at all times. Since the ban on the use of water for municipal supply, technicians, almost immediately, have seen that the turbidity of the river is a direct consequence of the low level of coronation. This decrease in the level of the coriander water sheet, which is low on a level that we consider to be no longer acceptable, is a clear failure to comply with the rules of exploitation and the plan of exploitation. From the very first moment, the company exploiting the encouragement to take the necessary measures to recover the normal situation of the river to alleviate that turbidity. As a result of the neglect of these requirements and, of course, that we are responsible, as we have seen progressively and on time reporting in this case, we have opened a sanctioning file in relation to the management of the dam, which will also bring this penalty in accordance with the damage caused by the water quality of the river we have found and the supply. As part of this dossier, the company has, of course, been introduced to maintain the level of the water of refreshment in the normal operating parameters and to take measures to reduce the turbidity of the rivers. They're facts that are classified in the Water Law, and of course we comply and make us comply with the Water Law. At this point in time this file will be processed, the allegations that are deemed appropriate and will follow its course, of course, and the scope of the sanction will also be analysed; a consideration that logically will already bear in mind the cost of the actions that were necessary to be carried out and that are still being made to reverse the situation totally in which it reaches the quality of the water, such as the restoration of the supply of water to the population, which was something that we were concerned about. We looked for solutions, and we gave solutions, and in this search for solutions we found that ETAP, the Potable Water Treatment Station of the Pontedeme Town Hall, had important deficiencies. That's what we're saying, and then very quickly. He didn't have raw water reagent mixing cameras, nor physico-chemicals, the decanter, small... with those levels of turbidity, he wasn't prepared to guarantee a quality of the water that deserves the population, because it wasn't really adequate or modernized. We found this problem: that the ETAP of Pontedeme did not have the capacity to ensure compliance with the parameters for the supply of drinking water. It was also concluded, after analyzing different alternatives, that the most agile, most effective alternative that allowed us to make the emergency declaration was to act at the municipal positator station, providing it with the systems needed to debug something that is depurable, because we are in a situation where supply to the population would not have to have cut even one day. It was an extraordinary measure that was taken in the face of exceptional circumstances. The emergency was declared, and the goal was to manage that water and provide quality supplies to the population. The emergency has already been approved by the Board of Trustees, and we're already finishing 100 percent of the drinking water treatment station. The mixing chamber will allow you to optimize all the municipal plant equipment, which is about to end. This Thursday, 12th, it'll be practically finished, and the new equipment will be installed, and next week the drinking water treatment station in Pontedeme will be finished 100 percent. So we modernized Pontedeme's drinking water treatment station in three weeks. Within three weeks an ETAP, a Potable Water Treatment Station, was modernized to ensure the water quality of all Pontedeume neighborhoods and a drinking water treatment station for the present and the future, for the next few decades; a drinking water treatment station that in these five years the mayor of Pontedeume did not do; we fixed it from the Junta of Galicia in three weeks agile, efficient way, and thanks to that emergency statement, because we were at all times next to the neighbors of Pontedeume. [[Applause]] This action is going to add up to others, which we are already doing, which we have financed entirely from the waters of Galicia in terms of sanitation, such as the collector of Pontedeume, to optimize the sanitation system. We've always been by the Town Hall of Pontedeme performing all these sanitation actions. Together, in the area of water - and funded entirely by Galician waters, therefore by the Galician Union - we invested 10 million euros in the Pontedeme Council these years for its benefit and to improve the management of sanitation and supply; 100 million euros invested in Galician Union. My presentation I hope will serve as a reflection of all political groups: that there is a manifest difficulty in all municipalities to manage the complexity that has the integral cycle of water, supplies and sanitation. It's complicated. They're municipal services, they're direct municipal competition. There are two unquestionable facts: water is fundamental and it must be managed professionally, efficiently, and, of course, by ensuring the quality of water for supply. And the municipalities, perhaps those of smaller size, even those of large size, have difficulty exercising this competition. We saw him in the county of Pontedeme: the lack of drinking water, the turbidity, without any kind of doubt, was a problem to ensure supply to the population. But at least it was a problem without a solution. From Galicia we gave the solution, but the Pontedeme Town Hall was unable to give a solution to the water supply to the population. And there was the Galician Junta to give solution, to guarantee quality water supply in the face of the serious difficulties that the Pontedeume Town Hall obviously had, that it was not able to find the solution. When the Pontedeme Town Hall was over, we had been with him from the very first moment, and therefore the answer was immediate, despite the fact that it is municipal competence — I insist — the supply of water to the population. So there's a contrasting difficulty in managing the entire water cycle, and since the Galician Union we want to contribute, we want to add, we want to give solutions, how we gave solutions here at Pontedeme to guarantee the quality of water to the population. We have this proposal to set up a public enterprise to support the municipalities, to help the municipalities in this found and contrasted difficulty in water management; a public entity participating in the Galician Union to which municipalities can voluntarily be joined for appropriate and professional water management, so that the management of hydraulic infrastructures can be effective, cost-effective, take advantage of these economies of scale, take advantage of synergies and take advantage of the efficiency of joint systems. Because it's, of course, a contrasting difficulty, as we saw in Pontedeme Town Hall, that I wasn't able to solve and guarantee the quality of water to the population, to the 11,000 people who supply that supply system. Targets know and we tell them here or in the Local Water Pact: efficient management, equal rates and investments with objective criteria. The Eume is another example of the shortcomings, the difficulties of the municipalities to manage water, to give their people quality water and to give them the tranquillity that they can live quietly with the water of their village. So, I think it's obvious that hydraulic infrastructures have to be modernized and that they can't be obsolete, you have to keep them. I think it's worth thinking about, making a joint reflection between all administrations, municipalities, joints and deputies: that we have to offer a solution to our neighbours, our municipalities of professional and effective management for the management of the entire water cycle. And, for my part, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u149	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Aranguena Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u150	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, you have the shame and the hard face of coming here to blame the Town Hall of Pontedeme, nothing more and nothing less! What a demonstration of more blatant cynicism and eluded of their competences and responsibilities! What a face! —I insist —. You tell me you have the competence of the Pontede Town Hall for water supply, for of course you have the competence of water supply! That's obvious. And he says that Pontedeume's debugger wasn't ready for what came up to him, so of course he wasn't ready for the river -- which in theory should have the best quality of water in Galicia, because it's the river that makes up the center, the core, a natural park -- to fall from the color of the milk and so that suddenly a debugger, who has been operating for decades with total normality, would be overwhelmed by an episode of contamination, or from what happened there, that you deny that it's contamination. And he says you set up a commission. And who's gonna create it? You appeal to the Council of Pontedeme that you do not create a commission, when you are the competent authority to manage a pollution situation, by pollution competition, by environmental competence, because the water is low and is taken directly from a natural park that manages you and by the police of the Galician Water Administration. By all competences and by all means you are the one who has to create a commission. How will the Town Hall of Pontedeme be created? I insist, what a shame and a hard face! The first - part of that - which draws my attention is that it comes here today in connection with an episode of pollution that affects a river that is the nucleus and the artery of the second park on the surface of Galicia, as it is that of the Strawberries of the Eume, and who appears today is the advisor of Infrastructures, not the one of the Environment, which evokes a certain Francoquist tic that reminds those times that the protection of the environment was the thing of the mythical Icona, essentially formed by engineers like you, much less or almost never by biologists. A situation that one assumed was a thing of the past, but that in the Council of Galicia traditionally reproduces itself in its environmental advisors, almost all engineers, except — unless I'm wrong — Mrs. Ánxeles Vázquez. And with this I'm not calling them Frankists, obviously -- even if your founding president comes from frankism and happily converts himself -- I'm simply saying that you have a tic of the past that would be very good to overcome, because the Eume River is neither an infrastructure nor a water channeling nor can it be treated as you want and how you're doing here today. The Natural Park of the Strawberries of the Eume, declared in 1997, covering more than 9,000 hectares, is the second on the surface of Galicia and aims to protect what happens as one of the most western and best preserved Atlantic forests in Europe. Twenty-three years after his statement, the park situation is bad. She's been attacked like this one that we're talking about here today, or the fire of the year 2012, and a lot more or less showy or media, but you do. For more reason, despite the fact that the legislation imposes an obligation to approve the corresponding Rector Plan within two years of the declaration of the park, still today — twenty-three years after that declaration — the park lacks the corresponding plan. And it was allowed that a park that boasts -- as I said -- of being an autochthonous river forest has suffered from its creation a process of eucalyptization which, according to several studies, exceeds 20%; that is, the surface of eucalyptal has grown by 20% and that of autochthonous forest has decreased by the same proportion. That, without counting the environment or the area of influence, where the level of eucalyptization is already almost complete, to the point that an ecologicalist organization would be as much as the Galician Natural History Society proposes — ironically, obviously — to change its name — and I say ironically, they won't take it seriously — to the park by the "Eume Eucalyptal". This is the context in which the situation that caused the appearance, which — I insist — should not be yours, but the Environmental Adviser. In a statement issued on Thursday 8 by the Pontedeme Council — not for you — it was pointed out that at least from the morning of October 6th, the waters of the river Eume "are completely cloudy, with a colour and texture which seems to be due to some kind of spill"; the fact that it was immediately transferred to the waters of Galicia by the Council of Pontedeme. The situation worsened in the following days, until water consumption was closed on day 10. Then we learned from the presence in commission of the director of the waters of Galicia that this body received the corresponding complaint on day 5. And the Infrastructure Adviser — you’ve been worthy to stand in the place on Tuesday 13th — a powerful act!—, eight days after the greenery, to announce the installation of an anti-contamination barrier at the point of catch of water for consumption of the municipality; as it is very visible before the press - it appears that something is done and allowed to take a picture - but ineffective, since the barrier is a mechanical device that can very hardly prevent pollution suspended in the water, and in any case, at least, according to the experts we have consulted and that can — for sure — also consult, if you have not done it already. For many years, a number of environmental groups have denounced the mud accumulated at the bottom of the Eume coronation as a potential danger to the natural park - which is one of the six that has Galicia - as well as for a stream of such high ecological value, fishing, seafood and tourism as that of Ares, since they can contain all kinds of materials and toxic substances associated with the contamination that comes from water above the coronation, including decades of mining and industrial activity. On 14th and 14th June he declared the situation of emergency - logical that it should be done to Junta, because, I insist, it has all competences and means at its disposal; it is who has to do so - with the intention, he said, of regaining the quality of the waters of the Eume, in addition to announcing the creation of a commission, which, according to the director of the waters of Galicia told us, was created on 20th. You think he told us before it was day 15. Well, the water director of Galicia says it was five days later; that is, fifteen days after the complaint. Stunning action – as you said – and fast! So the councilman took eight days to figure himself on the river bank and it took Junta fifteen days to create that commission to analyze the situation. Come on, they took it with a calmness worthy of best effort. And the environmental advisor -- we know -- didn't even show up there. All in all, a more or less natural park, as we have so many and so well preserved! Yes, the Infrastructure Adviser on her visit told the press that the situation seemed intolerable; a situation that caused the Pontedeme Council to denounce the facts to the Board and the Ministry of Ecological Transition, and days later, only days later, the advisor announced the adaptation of the Pontedeme debugger for 1.5 million euros. On the other hand, December 30, 2020 ends the deadline for the environmental pact signed by the Galician Union with Endesa at its time and includes, among its objectives, the modernisation of hydroelectric infrastructure for the environmental recovery of the Eume River. We don't know if that pact includes some kind of action related to the Eume reservoir; it would be interesting if you commented on it. It is important to remember that during the last decades a number of echo groups and fishermen have repeatedly denounced the failure of the obligation to maintain the ecological flow on the part of Endesa, which has kept a river stretch of four kilometers within the park space, in the heart of the park, in the light of the passivity and inaction of the Galician Union. Unheard of thing: leave 4 kilometers of dry river inside a natural park that articulates around that river. I mean, how can you imagine that a river ecosystem that is the core of a natural park like the Fragas park is preserved, when four kilometers from the river in the center of the park are dry? Let me tell you that this is a unique or worthy situation of the banana republic, because it turns out that, as I said to you, the Eume River is not a water channelling -- although you seem to take it for that -- and, although it provides water to the populations of its shore, it is not its function or its value, but it is a river ecosystem that is essential as the heart of the Eume Straw Park, since the main ecological value of this park, according to so much publicized to Junta, despite the multiple aggressions it has suffered decades, is that of being the best preserved Atlantic river forest in Europe -- from you -- from you. And a river forest can hardly be preserved if the river on which it depends is contaminated or mistreated. On the contrary, the Eume River, precisely because of that character of river carotid artery of the second natural park on the surface of Galicia, should be the best conserved river of Galicia, the cleanest river of Galicia. And yet these days, a month after he started this chapter of his story, he fell from the color of milk or, at least, he went down a few days ago, until a few days ago. At the session of Commission 2 of Parliament of Galicia held on 22 October and again on Friday, the Director of Waters of Galicia tried to normalize the situation as a natural episode of sediment drift, which is indicative that you or do not know what the natural state of a river is in an episode of rain-related turbidity or do not know what the state of the Eume is, which, as I tell you, more than a month ago...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u151	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u152	...that continues to fall from the milk color. So, I hope that in the second intervention you explain to us, in fact, what this episode consisted of and what were its causes, because of the appearance of the director of the waters of Galicia I come...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u153	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u154	...in conclusion they don't know it yet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. Aranguena. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Fernández Alfonso has the floor on behalf of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u156	Thank you, Mr. President. We ask you to attend the plenary session, Counsellor -- well, actually the Environment Adviser -- because the matter is very important, much more than you want to give it to him. It's not just an episode of turbidity in the water of the river that had affected the supply of Pontedeume County, it's many years of impunity by Endesa, environmental impunity, attacking the river and, by extension, the strawberries and the river. As early as 1988, the press echoed some of Endesa's greenery in the river with consequences on the seafood banks of the Ares River. It rains on wet. It's about these aggressions taking place, precisely, in an environment that should be particularly protected by its biodiversity, the beauty of its landscapes and the impressive monumental and historical heritage that it houses. It's a space of enormous potentials, absolutely abandoned by its government, which has been waiting for more than twenty years for a plan revolving uses of the park that protects it and puts it into value; a plan that should be the first stone for its orderly and respectful use with its conservation and the first stone so that the park serves as an element of environmental awareness and economic dynamisation in a region that does not understand how a similar treasure is as it is. When these months ago Endesa failed for the last time the environmental standards and lowered the water level of the chorus below the permitted, what stood out, Counselor, were the shames of his government. [[Applause]] These rusty-colored muds that we could see in the coronation can't conceal their miner origin. [[Mr. Fernández Alfonso shows a photograph.]] Years and years of mining activity in the bridges to the open and uncontrollable sky caused by the effect of wind and rushes an accumulation of sediments in the coronation; "a natural process in all coronations", said the general director of Galician Waters, yes, but, in this case, the mud contains remains of mining activities and can therefore contain from heavy metals to remaining hydrocarbons that have been used for years as mineral treatment. Those sediments that have never been removed from the cologne, such as the current regulations would force them to do periodically and which Endesa has never done. There was an opportunity to solve this problem because of the works that Endesa had to do to change the drain valves of the clutch, forcing her to remove these sediments out of the river and give them the corresponding treatment. But Endesa commands a lot. In the first proposal they sent with the project of works to change those valves the intention of Endesa was to send the mud down the river, making it clear that the Eume River to Endesa is but its private sewer. Only after the pressure of the ecological associations, especially of Adega, and of the allegations they presented in the administrative process, did Junta reject the project and asked Endesa to present a new proposal, which consisted of moving the muds from the bottom to the tail of the coroner; this proposal, this is yes, approved by the Board, although it does not give a definitive solution to the problem, which would be their extraction, and without guarantees that the characterization of these sludges had been properly performed; that is, the analysis of its composition or the determination of the exact quantity of the existing muds. It was a matter of time that because of climatic circumstances, infrastructure failures or non-compliances affecting the flow of water in the coronation these muds mobilized and ended up in the river as it actually passed. It was the chronicle of an announced disaster. And now the Board announces that it will open the Endesa file and ask for compensation for the prejudices. I'd miss more! But what's going to account for Junta as prejudice? Will this time require a definitive solution or will it be a new patch? Counsellor, at the BNG we understand that your government must put on the table a project that meets all the circumstances of this exceptional environment, a comprehensive project, and we make concrete proposals; a project that in our opinion must have two phases: a first recovery and a second dynamization of the territory. But before the first one must still be an audit of the state of the river which contains an exhaustive categorization of these sediments that have been accumulated in the river and in the coronation over all these years, and with particular attention to the muds of the marine banks of the river. This audit should include the analysis of the entire spectrum of contaminants, especially a complete panel of heavy metals and hydrocarbons, and must be fully transferred to all affected and interested parties with immediate and transparentness. And from this audit it must begin with the first phase, the recovery of the river and its basin, of course, with the compulsory participation of Endesa, which must bear the costs of all these years of environmental aggression in the Eume and, of course, the costs of removing the mud, because Endesa itself has already warned at the meeting of the commission held for a month that the vegetables will be repeated by the effect of the expansion of the ecological flow. The solution to Join cannot be to modify the Pontedeume debugger so you can treat some turbidity levels in the upper water. It's good to be prepared for any continence, but one thing is to be forecasting and another to assume a permanent deterioration of the water because Endesa doesn't want to remove the mud from the cologne. And after the recovery, the second phase, the dynamization of the territories of the Eume basin, with particular attention to those who are part of the natural park; and with ambition, Counselor, because the potential is enormous and we cannot afford to take advantage of it. From the Commission of the European Union to the Union itself, through the central government and experts of all kinds, they have fincaped the need for an economic transition. What better opportunity to start with a project that can serve as a true statement of intentions? Because a dynamization of these territories and the Natural Park of the Fragas can be the best brand image of a country project with which the whole of Galician society feels identified and even proud. There is no better chance in practice, in fact, to realize in the territory a project of green economy and circular according to that Green new deal; an exceptional and winning project, which, in addition, would certainly count on enthusiastic applause and the involvement of the entire commercial society. We know it's not going to be easy, nor fast, because there's a lot of consensus that unites and works, it's a lot of municipalities, a lot of owners, a lot of interests, but that can't be an excuse to stay in a suicide inaction. Participation in the plan design in a democratic way of all administrations and all stakeholders will also be a fundamental basis for the project's success. There's a lot of work ahead of you and a lot of you have to correct, sure, so we're talking about a multi-year plan. But, whatever it is, it is obliged and urgent to realize the recovery of the Eume basin and its dynamization. But it is that, in addition to being obliged by the Government, at the BNG we are convinced and convinced that there will rarely be a project as necessary, as expected, as motivating and as satisfying as this one. We ask you for ambition, Counselor; this is about our country; it is a first step that marks the way to make Galicia that garden by the shore of the Atlantic with which Castile dreamed. It's worth it! Thank you and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Fernández Prado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u158	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Thank you, Counselor, for coming to present your own request and moving us to the measures taken by the Board to solve this problem of the turbidity of the Eume River; a detailed appearance with complete transparency. Thank you very much. This is an important issue, so we thank this audience for joining in with the full explanations that the Director-General has already given on 6th in Commission 2nd. First of all, I would like to move that since the People's Group we regret the event, especially the inconveniences caused by the neighborhood of Pontedeme and Cabanas, which saw how it had to be ten days without the supply of water; a long time for a basic service and a right. Don't listen to these same excuses from the party that manages the service! but, well, from the People's Party if we want to regret these things. In his explanations, I think the first thing we have to say is that the Board has acted efficiently, and within not only its competences, but also to help and support within the powers of the municipality. Mr. Orange, I'm sorry to tell you that, as you've shown and as you're demonstrating, if you had the Town Hall a well-made debugger and you've been kept with the charges you charge -- which are many -- if you've done well maintenance, you wouldn't be a single day without service. That's the reality. Because any debugger -- sorry, Mr. Arunguena -- has to be ready for any accident, because there are them. [[Mr. Aranguena Fernández denies it with his hand.]] Accidents happen, and this wasn't, but I say it can happen any day. In any case, the advisor and the Counsellor think they've been helping the Town Hall since the beginning, I think it's important to remember that there was no toxicity in the water, as evidenced not only by the analyses made by the Board but also by the Town Hall and that there was no condition nor in the river fauna, as reported by the Environment, nor in the marine banks. So, I think, although important, being serious, it's true that at least there was no such toxicity. I would like to remind you again that every time we talk about supplies and water in this Parliament we have to remember: always since the opposition they want to blame the board of services that are municipal - at least today they recognize that they are municipal -. Those responsible for these water treatment plants are the municipalities, and they have to keep them and they have to be prepared because they're municipal powers. It is true that, in Pontedeme's case, she wasn't prepared properly and she had to go to Junta also to help. He collaborated, and he also demanded -- that this is indeed the responsibility of the Union -- the corrective measures to the company that manages the encouragement. In that part, because, of course, as I think it became clear, both of them didn't blame the Town Hall; what you're told is that you're not doing things... that you didn't have the maintenance of the positabilizing station properly. That's all you're told, I think it's a reality. The fault lies with the company managing the encouragement, and you said it the other day for active and passively the director. I think the headline was quite clear, he did things very wrong, but he was very clear about that, the director, and today the advisor, identical. Look, I'm sorry they're not able to recognize what's done and continue to deny the reality of things, because, of course, they disqualify everything on board. That's what takes away their credibility. The Board has just solved the problem, within the municipal facility, and what the BNG did was that Mrs. Pontón came there to propose a plan of 250 million euros. I'm going to pass it to pesetas -- to remember -- 42,000 million pesetas. Yes, yes, in potatoes... an unrealistic, populist plan. [[An honourable Member: In fries!]] People want certainty and reality. Let's talk about things clearly: with which the Government of Spain, which left the whole region of the Bridges, had put 10% of that in the area, people would be throwing and slapping, 10%! Stop supporting them. This government of Spain, Mr. Arangüena, not only left the region, but also the coal carriers, the naval people, the auxiliaries, all of them. [[Applause]] We wouldn't need as many things to ask for recovery if they hadn't let them die, because they're killing, with those bridge decisions, all over the area. But look, I know I'm not the same rope, and maybe this doesn't like you, but where was the deputy? Where has the parliament been all this time? He wasn't seen. You say the advisor is late, because we're still waiting for the president of the parliament, and that's what's from the area! Still! But look, what did the deputy do to help me at Pontedeme? Nothing. They're still waiting for her. Nothing, and that's a deputation competition to help the municipalities. Yes, sir! [[Murmurs.]] But look, Mr. Aragüena, if I had to list the failures and failures of the PSOE in the water management where they rule, that would be a litany, as you said today; a long litany. What did they do in Vimianzo? And what did the deputy do with the floods? What did they do in Corme and Ponteceso? Where was the deputation while they were poisoning themselves with the mismanagement of the plant? And in Nigeria, contaminating the beach America? At ETAP Vigo, right now -- we don't have to go too far -- in the morning we read that we confirm the fine of the High Court of Justice of Galicia for the mismanagement of the water in Vigo, and we're not talking about small places. The list would be endless. If the advisor makes that list, we don't end up here today. But look at one thing, Mr. Aranguena, this timing would take an hour for usespecial. And that the left - yes, yes, the left - speaks of Melide's debugger, this is indeed worth it. The mayor of the two-party government was convicted criminally - justly! - by certifying a water sink that he did not do. He signed that it was finished and he hadn't done it, not even the collection of materials, and that's...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u159	Silence! Mr. Rivas, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u160	It is confirmed by the Supreme Court that the complaint, criminally. [[Applause]] Let's talk about Melide on the left!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u161	Mr. Rivas!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u162	Then...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u163	I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Mr Rivas, you are not in this debate. Please, I don't want to call him in order. No, no... [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Rivas, you're not... [[Mr. Fernández Prado speaks words that are not perceived.]] Sir, Prado, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u164	I was talking to Aranguena... Mr. Rivas Cruz utters words that are not perceived.) Mr. Rivas, you're not in the debate, you're not in the debate, and if we go to those allusions, so Mr. Bará said earlier that I would also intervene, and it makes no sense. It doesn't make sense. It doesn't make sense, I'm telling you! Then, please continue. Don't worry, Mr. Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u165	Thank you, President. I was talking to Mr. Aranguena, who was from the litany this morning. Lettania the works of the PSOE. And I'm saying that he's talking about Melide on the left, with a mayor condemned for not doing a debugger, convicted criminally and confirmed by the Supreme Court... besides, the Council of Melide, that this lady said she had the work...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u166	Mr. Orange!, would you like to sit down, which is not in the use of the word? It's not in the use of the word. Mr. Orange, I call you by order! But this...! Well, I'll call him in order. First call to order. Continue, Mr. Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u167	We're talking... What a sensitive skin! If you have to listen to what I have to hear and what I've heard all day...! And I still give a smile to the voices, which I had to hear! We're gonna be a little... Let's see, Mr. Aranguena, here is a mayor on the left, of a Bipartite, who condemns her for a subject of water from a debugger. What I'm telling you is that this lady certified a debugger that she didn't do and said it was finished when she didn't even have the stamps done. The Melide Town Hall had to return the money, and now you're taking the blame for the problem of debugging to the mayor who came after. What a face! That's what I'm saying. [[Applause]] And let me tell you that, to see it, I took note of your words, because I think they can't be more suitable for this. You said, "disgrace and feud." This is what it's like to be able to blame you for these things: shame and courage. But, well, people recognize when you go there. The PSOEs were no longer expected. The Board has been there with a clear commitment, which is not only this case, but we have spent many years investing 1,100 million euros, more than 300 actions in supply and 350 in sanitation. I think the data... I don't know what he was saying before the data is the data, and here's the data, 1,100 million investment. And besides, I think it's true that it's important not to repeat mistakes again. That's why I also want to end with the same things the counselor finished with. I honestly thought about the need for a public body to be created for water management. I think these cases, which are some of the many that exist, demonstrate the vulnerability of local administrations to give this service quality and the full level that is needed. I sincerely believe that not only for these cases and for these emergency situations, but generally in everyday life, it is worth giving us a collective thought to the creation of that one. Let's think about it, I think it's important for all of Galicia, and I think the municipalities will thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u168	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u169	...citizens too, and, in any case, I honestly believe that in this case, recognizing that the culprit is the exploiting company, we must also remember that if he doesn't get to be in the Union, as we just heard, we'd still be out of supply, which is a municipal competition. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. Prado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the replica shift, you have the floor of Mrs Vázquez Mourelle's Infrastructure and Mobility Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u171	Thank you, President. We continue. I came and showed up here. I'm here to talk about the powers of the Galician Waters, what you did to the Galician Waters, therefore to the powers of the Galician Hydraulic Administration, which we know well, and to talk about what we have done, what we have done in the poser, what we have done in the choir, what we have done in the river and what we are doing. And, Mr. Aranguena, you didn't listen. Of course, I'm sorry that I hadn't listened to my intervention at all. He didn't hear it, and I'm sorry he hadn't listened at all, because I heard it and, therefore, obviously, I drew the conclusion that you didn't listen to me. And besides, a million and a half euros in an annuality directly in three weeks, it's not propaganda, it's not in the geotextile barriers. One and a half million euros in three weeks. Because there we are, to help when needed, with solutions, and I think that's solutions. He didn't listen. I've clearly said the causes of turbidity: that the level of relief when it goes down affects, and we've shown it. So we know the causes and we tell them: it's the exploiting company. That's why we opened the sanctioning file, so it will be sanctioned, and that's why we will ask you to assume the costs of the works, not only the works, but also the analytical ones, because I don't think it comes — the investment we're making, because there's infinite the analyticals that we're doing daily in the water column at a lot of points. They don't care. I think it is shameful that two Members of the Socialist Party, Pablo Arangéna and Gonzalo Caballero, go to the river to take a political cut and take a picture, long after me, eh!, but, of course... political cut, no solutions, no solution... but they can propose, which is legitimate; it is legitimate to propose, it is legitimate to propose! [[Applause]] To constructive proposals, I have my hand; it is legitimate to propose, but they do not propose, but photo, nothing more, and cut off, much after me, but, well. We've been working since the first day. It seems to bother them, but we've been working since the first day, because that's what we have to do and so we've done it since the first day. I'm terribly sorry that it looks like I'm going to say "look," to see if they answer me soon, that they don't care at all about the quality of the water coming out of the pool in the houses. They come here... and they don't care about each and every one of us. In the vault, what's the recipe? Wash your hands with water. We can't spend ten days with people without water. Don't they care about the quality of the water coming out of the bowl? Well, they totally diverted the subject. I come here to talk about water, water supply and quality. If they care and if they care, I'm delighted that they make me their proposals and their reflections on ensuring the quality of the water in the balls of people and families, because I do care and I'm here precisely for that, because it's a matter that we care about, where there's a problem, and I think we all have to look for a solution. They come here with the environmentalist flag, with the banner. I'm telling BNG that the Bueu debugger since we installed the UVA rays, which are for disinfection, didn't turn it on! Well, we're talking about quality of water, environmental issues; therefore, the debugger of Bueu wouldn't cost so much if they cared about the environment and the quality of the water. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And so do I to the Socialist Party. We have an example in Nigeria. Do you think the greens are Galician? The greens are of many municipalities, of all political parties, but they are of municipalities. I'm going to set the example of Nigrán on the American beach, which is closed many times. Consequence? The greens and rains of the Council of Nigeria, of the Socialist Party. But are you going to give me lessons in water quality management here? I'm surprised. If you want to work together for better management of the entire water cycle, you have me here to work and make a better model, because it's necessary; but you want to bring here the banner and the environmental flag when you see problems, evidence in certain municipalities where you rule... I think a little bit of humility is very good for everyone. [[Applause]] On the file opened to Endesa, I said, the file is not for greenery, the file is for the management it made of the hug. There is a drag of materials as a result of improper exploitation, because the exploitation of the concordion was not done as it had to be, in accordance with the rules of exploitation. The greenery file was 2018 -- I don't know if they're mixing it -- and if it's imposed sanctions; therefore, we're not talking about unauthorized waste, we're talking about turbidity as a result of drags of materials as a result of the levels of exploitation of a coronation. The lower the water sheet — I think I said it, they didn't listen to me — that's the result of the level of turbidity. That's why we didn't let Endesa come down from a certain amount of water to guarantee turbidity. I don't have the graph here, but they've got it mentally and they see that it's lowered the turbidity substantially steep with the measures we've taken. Because that's solutions, don't take the picture to take political cuts. They could propose. I said they didn't have to propose it, but they could propose it. We did it. I'm glad, Mr. Arunguena, that you finally admit dramatically that supply is a municipal competition. I'm glad it's so many versions I have of some... I'm glad it's municipal competition. It's a complicated competition — I recognize it and I always recognize it. What I deeply regret is that disqualify engineers for water management; that means they have no idea what integral water cycle management is. He said it, I heard it. [[Applause]] He talked about engineers... how I heard him... If he disqualified the engineers for water management... well, he said, if he didn't, he had the next chance... I, of course, when I heard him, deeply regretted him, not for what I'm concerned about, but for the enormous professionals who are there to get the water quality to the pool of each one of us. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I believe that it is believed, we act with agility, with commitment; and it was about ambition, of course, that we act with ambition, and ambition is what I propose for that public entity, for that way of managing the hydraulic infrastructures to help the municipalities. We act beyond our competences, and our direct competences are to ensure the quality of the water and to monitor the greenery. That's our direct competition. Of course we know what our direct competition is and we act. But we went further, which was to be next to the Town Hall with the ultimate and only goal that is to improve the services and give a water service to the entire population of Pontedeme. We'll have to work together all the administrations to achieve that goal of professionalizing water management. For that, engineers are needed, and I make it clear here that it is necessary; engineers and many other professionals, because it has to be professionalized. They speak here [...] and want to leave it there in that anecdote... 10 million euros are investing in hydraulic infrastructures in Pontedeme Town Hall! [[Intelligible.]] Ten million euros, of which you are benefiting... Yes, yes, collector-interceptor, the sanitation works and the million and a half of supply, 10 million euros! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And they say I come advertising by taking a picture there! I think we have to go to the ground, Mr. Arunguena, but with solutions. I made up my mind to go to the ground, but I made that decision to walk, to the river, to the technicians and to the mayor. And where was the deputy? Away. The deputy, absent to help the municipalities in their powers! Where was the deputy? There is a very serious problem of banned drinking water and the deputation - which I think the chairman of the parliament is from there, from the area - has not come. I'm surprised. So we'd like -- and I think that also the mayor of Pontedeume -- to help MPs put a hand in such complicated situations as giving solutions to the neighbors who come to you because they don't have water, the families who were in their bars, the cafeterias, the water... those were complicated situations that I think we had to give them an answer. We would have liked the Council of Pontedeume so much — I think — and, of course, the Council of Galicia would have liked to have been there to help us with this. Why, how much did you invest in sanitation and supply infrastructures at Pontedeume Council itself? I don't come here wanting to take responsibility for the Pontedeme Town Hall because I didn't do it in my first intervention, I didn't, but I do think that with 700,000 euros a year that Pontedeme Town Hall brought up at sanitation and supply rates well deserved to modernize the systems. Well, I think that with 700,000 euros entered in annual supply and sanitation fees well worth it -- because they're finalists -- to invest them where to invest them. Of course, in the poser he didn't invest them, I guarantee it. So, with that annual income — which I think is important — I multiply it: in five years, 700,000 euros: 3.5 million euros; 2 ETAP would have done. I think that the 700,000 euros, whatever you get for fees, you have to invest them. [[Applause]] But he didn't consider it a priority, it's best to pick up, and when there's a problem, it's when you have to invest; Junta, investing. [[Applause]] And we, when there's a problem of silence that doesn't guarantee the quality of the water in the neighbor's pool, we're next to him to solve it and we're going to solve that water problem. In a municipal competition — which I insist on, because it is so, municipal, and I thank Mr Arunguena for his recognition — we have been to ensure that supply service. The facts are those. The Town Hall of Pontedeme wasn't who, he couldn't provide quality water for the neighbors, and we helped him. We're happy to help the Town Hall of Pontede me in this case, and we work together; it's how we have to work. We'd like him to come to parliament and be next to us, but he hasn't been, and everyone's responsibilities. I, Mr. Fernández, have already answered the issue of vegetables, but I welcome the BNG to the concern for water. I would like that concern for the water was also in the creeks, although I think that the sanitation of Pontevedra's stream is now more channelled... in the sanitation of Pontevedra's creek I would like to see for many years the involvement of the Pontevedra Town Hall. We didn't see, of course, an implication for sanitation Pontevedra, also for municipal competition, and we had to come... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] When they want, we do -- I count myself here -- a visit along with all the works we're doing from municipal competition to fix this local sanitation plan that we had to do to help the municipalities exercise that complicated competition. But we're doing it to help the municipalities. We'd like that implication of sanitation in the creeks that they seem to have. And also on the Gafos River, which I can't heal, but we've already made a solution. I'm not going to say the name because I don't want to... we already have a solution for the Gafos River. [[Murmurs.]] The Pontevedra Town Hall wasn't able to give it, but we already have the solution, don't worry. We already have the solution, which we have already put before the Town Hall. We planted it in the Town Hall last week. [[Applause]] It's ten concrete performances, and one is an interceptor on the Gafos River to prevent any greenery in this river. In any case, returning to Mr. Fernández and the BNG Eume Plan, of the 250 million euros, I don't know if they're potatoes... I think they made their accounts in pesetas and directly said euros, because, of course, the total consolidated investment of the Council is 445 million euros. Is that what would require all the investment of Galician Waters -- which I have the honour to direct -- and not all the investment for a single place -- did they do well? I don't know what scientific criteria. I'd ask for restraint and weighting. No one believes those extravagant things. So there are the facts and the management of the Galician Union. None of you here — who I understand are concerned about the Eume, like me — told me about the runoff of acid water in the Eume; none of you. Do you know how much we invest? Do you know how much we've been doing since 2009 managing to make sure nothing happens? Twenty-six million euros. But, of course, when there's no problem because we give solutions and we don't know... but 26 million euros that we're managing to make those runs... yes, yes, it is. So I'm sorry that, if you're so familiar with that shell that you care so much, you don't know that there's a problem of runoffs, acid water and that we're managing it with an investment that's very important, apart from the technical knowledge that requires carrying that exploitation so there's no problem. I'm sorry that it's a no for no, both the BNG and the Socialist Party, and I think that we don't get anywhere with it. We want to move forward, to be responsible, to say with transparency all that we have done and not share those frivolities like the 250 million euros in the Eume basin, in the middle of the pandemic, with economic crisis, with health crisis... the number of hospitals or health centers that we would make with that money! Well, what do you want me to tell them? What you don't manage! What you don't manage! I'll finish up. Of course, technical and economic support from the Galician Union, total in this case, and we have to face everything we have to face as challenges. I think I have responded to each of your interventions. I expect constructive proposals. The constructive proposals I hear, I write them down, and of course we will take them into account. I believe that our joint work must be to improve services and that it is recognized that it is a problem for the municipalities to manage the integral cycle of water. We need to find solutions to help the municipalities in this complex situation, and all the administrations together and all together. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u172	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We opened a special round of clarifications, with the Government's double. Firstly, on behalf of the Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr Arangéna Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u173	Mr. Calvo, you call me in order when I intended to indicate that Mr. Prado was talking about the debate in the morning; that is, I meant to tell you that you were not ordering this intervention correctly, because the debate in the morning I think it was the debate in the morning, and come here in the afternoon to talk to me about things I said in the morning debate, because it doesn't seem to be a proper and rational ordination of interventions. But, in any case, she says the Counselor that she regrets that she had not listened to her intervention. I certainly regret your intervention, that I have listened to it with great attention, the first and the second. And by the way, that you accuse me of disqualifying the engineers... is it recorded, isn't it, what I said? What I said was that a engineer is coming today to talk to us about an issue that is eminently environmental. I mean, the approach you're making on this issue — with all due respect for you and engineers — is a wrong approach — in my opinion — because we're talking about a natural park, as I told you in my first intervention and I repeat, and you seem to focus on it as a water supply problem in Pontedeme. And that's not it, that's an effect, a derivative of the situation that the Natural Park of the Straits of the Eume, marked by the coronation of the Eume and the Eume River, which is the center of that park. Reiterates that you have acted above your powers. Well, it's a cynicism that seems absolutely amazing to me. And now you tell us too -- it's part of a credit to me that I recognize; it must be a kind of innovation -- that water supply is a municipal competition, a municipal responsibility. In part, yes, of course; but remember that the sanitation cannon charges it to Junta, and the Junta also has powers in sanitation, in supply and, above all, in pollution, and this is a case of contamination from a natural park whose management is entirely yours. But you're also dancing now. Well, it's only time for them to join the European Union and ask Ursula Von der Leyen to appear by Pontedeme and put a hood on them in the scapism exercise of their responsibilities that they do permanently in this Parliament. He says they acted from the very first moment. Well, I've already told you your speed... by the way, of course, you've won them fast because you're the advisor; but the environmental advisor didn't even go there. And we're not the ones who have to be on the river, those who have to be are you -- we've been, and with speed. He also says they acted hard. So intense that today the river continues to fall from the colour of milk, and you practically tell us it's in perfect condition. Well, it keeps coming down practically from the milk color. And the director of Galician Waters told us in commission last Friday that he was due to a possible solid drag. Come on, you have no idea what's going on there when it's been over a month. And when I blamed the headmistress of Galician Waters on that commission that she wasn't worthy to visit the Eume in this episode of pollution, she told me she didn't have to go because who had to go is the technicians; neither she nor the environmental advisor. Which gives an idea of the bureaucratic mentality that governs the policies of conservation of the environment of Galicia's PP. Bureaucratic mindsets in the best of cases, because at worst they are policies in the service of the interests of hydro-electric contaminants and of great economic interests — what a chance! — always friends of the PP. That's why we consider Galicia's environmental policies to be a mere chapter with too often a book called "Friendly Capitalism", which causes the former Environmental Adviser, Mr. Carlos del Alamo, to end up as coordinator of the Board of Directors of Ence or the former Environmental Adviser, Ms. Beatriz Mato, to end up as Head of Corporate Responsibility of Greenalia; a company to which he favoured by action, by default and in all possible ways when he was a counselor. I cannot help but refer to the proposal made by the BNG - apparently taking advantage of the fact that the river revolted, profited by fishermen - of mobilizing 250 million euros to recover the Eume River. Mr. BNG, I know your relationship with the world of economics is certainly far-reaching, but you take into account that the environmental recovery and regeneration of the Burgo River, which has recently been auctioned by the Progressive Government, as the PP Government has not done in the last ten years, has a budget of 48 million euros. So proposing 250 million euros to recover the Eume River is certainly out of reality, although we share the commitment. What we propose is that the Rector Plan of Uses and Management of the Natural Park be approved at once, which is provided with its corresponding budget, which regenerates the river, which punishes whoever has to be sanctioned -- because you have never sanctioned anyone, almost never in decades, on the Eume River for greens to this river -- so let the law be enforced...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u174	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u175	...and make a comprehensive regeneration plan of the Eume River and a fund-raising plan to recover the Natural Park of the Eume Falls. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u176	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] On behalf of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Fernández Alfonso has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u177	Thank you, Mr. President. You're in trouble! Good, debugger; Melide Debugger; Pontevedra Debugger; Town Hall of Pontedeume, Debugger, Water Management Company... Center, please; Eume, we are talking about the Eume. Focus on it, Counselor, we're not talking about anything strange, we're asking for compliance with the rules. As far as sediments are concerned, regulations today make it necessary to dredging the sediments periodically. And the logic, with one responsible person, is that he assumes the costs, with more reason still because the responsible, in this case Endesa -- did not ignite me any lightning, you can say who is the culprit -- he has obtained multimillionaire benefits from the exploitation of the bridge mine. It must be remembered that it is the largest in the Spanish state in the open sky, born of at least a large part of those muds that accumulate in the cologne. But it's not the only breach of Endesa in these years. It is well known — Mr Aragüena mentioned earlier — that it took fifty years to allow the river to flow, fifty years!, more than three kilometres from the dry river stream. What did this have to do with the river basin? As for the Eume Strait Park Use Rector Plan, you know better than me that it should be approved and functioning, and that your lack is one of the main problems in the Strait Park, not to mention the most important. We're talking about problems in the park that are causing serious deterioration; so much so that, since something is not done urgently, there may be little to protect. I don't know if that's exactly what she's waiting for. And we insist that it's not worth keeping up with the difficulties, in part because you, with your inaction and with your lack of initiative and ambition for this project, have a responsibility, in some way, in creation, yes, of a certain social climate contrary to the natural park. Therefore, it is an obligation and a debt of the People's Party to the territories of the Eume basin to put this going once and for all. But we also want to insist on this, on the proposed part, in the constructive part of this debate. We have a lot to gain from the start of a project that strongly bets on making Eume that advance of the Green new deal of Greek, which is telling us from all institutions -- their inclusive government -- that must be the leader of a future and sustainable economy. In addition to the impressive biodiversity of the Fragas, we are talking about some municipalities of marked rural character, where there is an important level of agrarian activity and which combine to some extent with tourist uses; a park well connected by road and by road - leave us the train, perhaps we had to talk about it - we are talking about a park that, despite all its lack of attention, earns visitors year by year thanks to its spectacularness; we are talking about a park where we can appreciate the footprint of San Rosendo, of the war of Pedro I and Enrique the Bastard, of the German revolts... and they are not small, they are monumental. There is the monastery of Caaveiro, the monastery of Monfero, the castle of Nogueirose, the tower of the Andrade palace, in the village of Pontedeme, and the bridge itself that crosses the river at its mouth. Counselor, she calls to heaven that such an impressive combination of natural, historical and monumental heritage is all of it in a ruinous state and suffering aggression that remains unpunished. They can't keep looking elsewhere, there's no excuse. [[Applause]] The Eume has all the potential, and for once all the blessings of institutions and experts; they lack their own. All these days all the visitors to the Reactivation Commission were faking that this should be the way, the green economy. Well, there's nothing greener in our country than the Eume Strawberries and the socially more resilient area to make investments than the economic promotion of models of exploitation of the territory as integrative as what might potentially happen in the Eume. Former President Laxe, in the Reactivation Commission, speaking of the need to promote an image of Galician brand that had evoked, precisely, all these characteristics of our country, made a joke with the name "Galiza, the country of wonders." I prefer, as I said before, that of "Galiza, town garden." But the important thing is that if you get to work, the important thing, as people say, is "let's come healthy," we'll name it later. Your comrades and comrades didn't like it -- and it looks like you don't like it either -- the investment we're referring to by 250 million. We're talking about an investment of 250 million for a plan to dynamize the territories of the Eume basin in several years. We're talking about a public investment that mobilizes resources and creates wealth in one of the most needed neighborhoods. If we don't send letters to the Kings, we know perfectly well that the kings, at least the kings of Spain, do what they do is leave with the money, don't bring them. Thank you. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u178	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Alfonso. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Fernández Prado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u179	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. Before we start, I'd like to ask -- because we're talking about Endesa being responsible, because I think we can agree a little bit on that, in which the responsible is Endesa -- to Mr. Aranguena calling a socialist ex-office. Since he spoke of boards of directors, he could call Elena Salgado, who is former socialist and counselor of Endesa, to see if we do something because I think the Socialist Party can talk little about this. [[Applause]] Then we'll also have other days to talk to others, don't worry. Yes, too. [[Laughter]] Allow me, Mr Fernández... — I respect all of them — also that I speak of the Eume, because I sincerely believe that, from the parties on the left, neither the BNG nor the PSOE are to give lessons neither of water management nor of the environment, so I spoke of Melide and therefore now I want to speak of Monfero: Socialist mayor in Monfero, in the heart of the Eume's Fragaes, yes, in the Fragas of the Eume, I am not going far, Mr Fernández. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You've opened an environmental file for having a clean spot turned into a dump, and I'm here as rescuers of the Eume Fries the Socialists! Call your mayor of Monfero and let him do the basics, because you can't come here and be a savior of the Eume Falls and then that incongruence, as I told you before, that they don't do anything. Or call the mayor of Pontedeme so that the 700,000 euros of fees will invest them in debugging and water service. That would be coherence and that would allow us to come here to give lessons and examples. [[Applause]] So, honestly, I would ask them to ask for something more humility and to be a little more constructive. We don't think we're doing all things right, but it's clear -- and I repeat -- that if we have water in ten days, it's not thanks to the responsible for the water purification and supply service, which is the Town Hall, or to the help of the MP, who's missing, it's because the Galician Board was diligent and, as the advisor said now, invested 1.5 million euros in ten days to do a municipal work. That's what it's like, and what it allows is that we can have quality in the water service. I want to end up positive, I want to end up constructive. I sincerely believe - and I was already saying this in the first intervention - that we have to give a thought to the water cycle management unit, and I am telling you the truth, because the councils are having many problems, and not just the small ones, I have already spoken before the confirmation of today's fine to Vigo, which is the largest municipality in Galicia and which has been leading since 2011, the second sentence, treating water badly; and I say the judgement of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, not only the continuing analyses since 2011. That's why I think we have to talk about it, because, in addition, it's a good way to build, build a country and give better services to citizens. I sincerely believe that people, for example Pontevedra, can understand it well because the works and investments the advisor spoke of are clear. It's true that it's costing the municipalities a lot to give that quality service, and it's their competence, and that's why we're glad, because those we've been here for four years were denied that the water supply service was municipal. So, for the first time, since someone from the PSOE says it's municipal, we have to have a party. I'm sorry, but that's the way it is. [[Applause]] In any case, I want to end by putting the 10 million investments of the Galician Union in sanitation and water supply in Pontedeme in the face of the disappearance of socialist governments, of the MP and of the Central Government, which after ruining the district of the Bridges, is disappeared with the whole region of Ferrolterra, of the Bridges and, of course, of the Fragles of the Eume. Nothing else, Counselor. Thank you very much for your explanations and for your diligence at work.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u180	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For closing attendance, the Infrastructure and Mobility advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u181	Thank you, President. Is water not environment? I think so. And they didn't read the title of my appearance? They don't even hear or read because, reading the title of my appearance, one of the main issues -- and I see they don't care -- is the water supply to the people of Pontedeme. So they don't seem to hear or read. I have come here, at my own request, to come here to transfer everything we have done in this House, the measures and actions we have done since the first moment, to give information on the actions we have carried out in this episode, of course exceptional, which had consequences on the water supply of Pontedeme, since in ten days they were unable to have drinking water 11,000 people. So by reading the title of that appearance, I think they already had an important clue to what, of course, since my competences, I can speak. I believe that I have more than faith in intervention, explanations, immediacy, responsibility, of course, and consistency in all the actions and measures that we have carried out from the very first moment on. From the first moment we were in this exceptional situation with exceptional actions which can be achieved in three specific lines of action - if I heard my intervention, the two previous interventions - : firstly, continuous and exhaustive follow-up on the coronation and the river, continuous, exhaustive, daily and with many parameters; secondly, lower the turbidity and ensure water supply - this is the second - and thirdly, give concrete and precise indications to the exploiting company, which we have already said here is responsible, Endesa, to which it manages the coronation, to take measures to reduce turbidity, within which we have said the essential - as we have said, we have reiterated and achieved - is the level of water of the coroner to reduce turbidity. And we act vigorously by opening that sanctioning file, of course, we impose on him the appropriate penalty and we will repertoire him the investments of the analytics of the works that had to be done, because he is responsible -- as we said here -- of the episode that happened. I was talking BNG about compliance. Of course, I don't know how to question it. I'd miss less! By discount! We will monitor and monitor compliance with the regulations - please!, for discount! -, for operating rules and for all water regulations, with the corresponding records. Of course I do! We substantially intensify analytical and control to ensure quality, because we care about people's health, and the quality of water can affect people's health. We did periodic checks, routines in the choir, and we moved on to an extraordinary, intensive and comprehensive monitoring plan to ensure the quality of the water and to keep track of the evolution of the different parameters, because we want the water to reach the villages of each of the houses with quality assurances, because we are concerned. And, Your Honor, we have collaborated - I have been insisting - from the very first moment with the Council of Pontedeme with immediate solutions; we have collaborated and worked in the positrator within our competences. I didn't ask the Town Hall of Pontede to act in the river. In the river we act, which is our competence. We act on the river, on the river, on the levels of exploitation and on the potabilizer as well, because if there was a physique-chemical like in the ETAP of Cervo, this would not happen, by setting an example, to put us in context. We need to get into the context of all these supply systems. So there was an immediate response from the first moment, both with the geotextile barrier on the first day and with the physical-chemical treatments, and seeing immediately that the great problem was to ensure water supply to the population, to the positabilizing station. We acted there, because he certainly lacked necessary facilities. So, the agile response, the bold response and the responsible response by the Galician Board in the episode at Pontedeme, and that emergency statement that we declared at three days before the Town Hall banned the water supply, allowed us an emergency statement to execute immediately, in very little time, 1.5 million euros in action to improve the drinking water treatment station. Therefore, performances and efficient, agile and fast management. The biggest investment was to modernize the drinking water treatment station and move forward in that investment to ensure the quality of the water. And I insist again that the Town Hall of Pontedeme raise 700,000 euros a year at rates. We'd like them to invest directly in that service. Rates that I understand are finalists. You should also share it and understand it, because the water quality of all neighbors is at stake. We're working right away on these lines of action that I just explained. The work of the drinking water treatment station is going to be almost finished on Thursday 12; an improvement of the potabilizer that will come into operation at 100 percent, therefore in a matter of days. So solutions, solutions on the ground, and solutions on foot from the river. On the ground were the technicians of the waters of Galicia from the first moment; on the ground I was myself and also the director of the waters; on the ground we improved that treatment station; on the ground we measured all the analyticals daily and asked the operator of the refreshment not to lower that limit of the cheer to avoid turbidity. And with complete transparency we come here, we set up the follow-up commission and we inform all the officers — by the hands of the council and the hands of the technicians. And with maximum transparency, we come here. I insist again: the episode of turbidity in the Eume River did not lead to toxicity. Someone's trying to move that there was toxicity. And there was no toxicity, no wildlife, no river mortality and no variation in mollusc disease was detected in the creek. Important were the restrictions on neighbors, and I think they're relevant enough to make a joint reflection and learn from experience, learn from lessons and learn from events. We have clearly seen that there are deficiencies in the supply system that seem to deserve reflection. Of course, for my part, I think that if these are problems that are obvious and that we see in many systems — as we can see in the sanitation at Ferrol, which has problems, along with Naron, to manage this sanitation system. And so it is a reality, and so in the exploitation of hydraulic infrastructures we have to take a step further and move forward in that public society, with voluntary adherence and with the marked premises that have been addressed in the local water pact — and therefore involving all administrations. I think it's a collective challenge that's looking for solutions. And in that collective challenge I hope to be able to find them, I hope that they will make contributions and work together for a problem that exists, which is a reality in the management of the entire water cycle by many municipalities in Galicia. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u182	Thank you, Counselor. We move on to the sixth point of the agenda, non-legislative proposals. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the participation of the Galician Union in the financing of the municipalities, the increase of the Local Cooperation Fund and the establishment in 2020 of criteria for the distribution of grants to local entities
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u183	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the proposal has the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u184	Thank you, Mr. President. The Socialists here today bring an initiative which has been repeatedly presented in this House by our parliamentary group and which has been repeatedly rejected by this House's majority group, that is, by the Group of the People's Party. It has thus prevented this Parliament from bringing forward a regulation by law, agreed with the Fegamp, on the participation in the financing of the Greek municipalities by the Galician Council, as requested by Fegamp, unanimously from all political groups — the People's Party too — in February 2017, in the document called the Executive Summary of the Committee on Analysis for the Study and Proposal for Measures to Reform the Policy Governing Local Farms — which was reiterated on 29th of 11th of 2019 in the X General Assembly of Fegamp. The fact is that the People's Party is presenting few initiatives in this House. Some of them are for the lust of the Greek Government to which they support, and most of them are to urge the Government of the State — yes, when the Government of the State does not rule the People's Party. Of the seventy-five Members and Members of this House, an important part of us are going through municipal life and, therefore, we should know the reality of our municipalities. In Galicia we have 313 municipalities, of which there are seven large cities, covering 36.57% of the total population of Galicia, 106 intermediate municipalities and 200 municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants. So we have an important number of municipalities with very different potentials and also with different needs. But where all its local governments, regardless of their political colour, want to give their citizens the best possible welfare, their goal being to improve the lives of men and women living in their territory. The Spanish Constitution and the European Charter of Local Self-Government establish and establish the principles of autonomy and financial adequacy of local authorities. But the reality is that the Greek municipalities, in order to develop that autonomy collected in the laws and meet those needs of their neighbours, do not count on the economic resources needed to meet them. As you know, the resources of the councils come mainly from the own tax resources; on the other hand from the resources from participation in State taxes, the so-called IEP — which, according to the Board of Auditors, for 2018 was 21.76 % of total resources — and, finally, from participation in taxes in the Autonomous Community, the so-called ICP — which also, according to the latest report for 2018 of the Board of Auditors, represented 10.68 %. Both PIE and PICA are unconditional current transfers that aim to cover the differences between expenditure needs and resources that can be obtained by their own means; that is, to contribute to the achievement of the financial adequacy of local farms. And, of course, it's the larger municipalities that have the highest financial autonomy. Thus, the Council itself, in its General Account Control Report of the local entities of Galicia corresponding to the financial year 2018, once again literally sets out the small budget size of the Greek municipalities, compared with their counterparts from the rest of the state, with income figures and per capita expenditure under the national average in all sections of the population. The People's Party, in its 2016 election program of autonomous elections, literally collected: "It is an obligation to modernize the local public administration to improve its service delivery and continue to provide the local authorities with the best tools to deepen the provision of quality public services, the effectiveness of its management and the proximity to citizenship. —Faijóo, In Galicia yes, 2016—". End of date. But the reality is that over the last four years — i.e. in this last legislation — the Government of Greece has not provided a single additional resource to deepen its provision of quality services that it spoke about in its electoral programme. And on the other hand, it has adopted rules that have increased the powers of the municipalities without bringing the resources necessary to develop them. The Greek Government intended that, at the expense of the scarce resources of the municipalities, and by giving up part of their tax revenue, businesses would be settled in Galicia, forgetting that the exclusive competition of industrial policy belongs to the Autonomous Community. Government Feijóo did not assume as a whole the maintenance costs of primary care centres and health centres — in charge of the municipalities — being exclusively autonomous competition and failing to comply with the local Covenant, signed with the Fegamp in 2006. Government Feijóo again charged the municipalities with the responsibility of taking on an important part of the expenses necessary to prevent the spread of this pandemic. And the government Feijóo didn't increase a single euro by the local cooperation fund. Look, with the Government of Emilio Pérez Touriño in just four years, the Local Cooperation Fund increased by EUR 40 million, reaching almost EUR 120 million. In the government of Nuñez Feijóo this fund does not reach EUR 113 million — exactly EUR 112,972,806. I mean, 7 million euros less than during the Tourin government. President Feijóo is an expert in saying one thing to then do another. He's an expert in asking for responsibilities to other administrations while he forgets to fulfill his own. However, the municipalities, with their scarce resources, acted to meet the needs of their neighbours without looking at who the competition was. They acted to care for the most vulnerable. And the Socialists once again reject the Galician board's grant system, a caciquil system that does not respect local autonomy; that is not based on a territorial rebalancing plan for Galicia; that does not seek the coverage of basic services for all of Galician citizenship regardless of where it lives; that does not comply with the principles of transparency and objectivity enshrined in the Galician Transparency and Good Government Act; that does not respect the Galician grant law. It's a system that favors local governments of their own political colour. Since then, the Galician Union of Nuñez Feijóo for these eleven years has not ruled the same for all the Greeks and all the Greeks. The Council of Galicia of Feijóo governs in a caciquil way favoring the local governments of the People's Party. Feijóo only reminds him of "Galicia, Galicia, Galicia" for his propaganda appearances, and uses the public media as an advertising platform for his service. And I ask the Members and the Members of the People's Party: do you understand President Feijóo who is more "Galicia, Galicia, Galicia" where the People's Party rules? [[Applause]] Look, if we break down the agreements signed by the Greek Government during the X legislation—I am not going to enter them right now because we will bring an initiative to this plenary with comparative data and paintings, as we always do the socialists, always!—we can conclude that more than 80% of the municipalities benefited from agreements by the Feijóo governments had a Government of the People's Party—without corresponding to the number of municipalities governed by the PP in Galicia and without any previously developed criteria or strategic plan— And if we look at Title V, Local Corporations, the budgets of the Autonomous Community, we have to have some initial amounts that were actually not actually implemented during these last three years. They were left unexecuted in 2017, 40 million euros; in 2018, 54 million euros; in 2019, 48 million euros. I mean, 142 million euros that left unexecuted had the purpose of going to those municipalities to meet their competencies. These are amounts that in three years exceed the amount allocated by the Galician Union annually to the Local Cooperation Fund. I mean, 29 million euros more than the Local Cooperation Fund has now signed up...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u185	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u186	...quantities that we ask for in our initiative and which could increase the contents of the Local Cooperation Fund so that the municipalities could exercise their powers without the supervision of the Galician Union. In the election programme of the People's Party of 2020, of the autonomous elections we have just had, in the section on local administration, it is literally said that they are committed to "reviewing the funding of the municipalities through the Local Cooperation Fund towards a model which overlaps aging, depopulation and fiscal effort, and which is affixed by territorial cohesion". And as the president has already warned me...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u187	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u188	...we assume that, with this commitment to the citizenship that you, the People's Party, have expressed with this program, will vote in favour of this initiative that we bring here socialists today. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u189	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u190	He ended his speech by trusting Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo in the favour of the People's Party. It is not disappointing, but, after the debate we had in the motion tabled by the BNG, where basically — at least some — of the issues now being raised in this PNL, the result is predictable, is very predictable. Because there the People's Party is wrong that it errs in its contradictions. Here we propose that a law be passed which regulates the council's participation in the funding of the Union, which has repeatedly defended the People's Party in the Fegamp and even announced the President of the Union in 2017. But they're going to vote against it. It is also proposed that the Local Cooperation Fund should be increased, including grants, which also defended the People's Party in the Fegamp, but which they will also vote against — in the Fegamp and even here in this Parliament, because we have come to adopt initiatives in this regard. And these are the criteria for the distribution of grants. As I said, these three questions appeared in our motion along with others that are really the key, the vault key, to solve this structural problem of strangulation of the municipalities in their funding, which has to do with the local funding system and also with the autonomic financing system. And it turns out that here we live the paradox that the municipalities are the most fulfilling administrations in spending and deficit and it turns out that they are the most punished, both by the state and by the board of Galicia, in the lack of funds. It is therefore clear that there is a need for agreements in this area in addition to the agreements reached in the Fegamp. The normal thing would be, by consistency, to transfer the agreements of the Fegamp to this House. And that's the coherence, of course, in which the Galician Nationalist Block is installed, but the People's Party is installed in the beginning, in the beginning. Depends on the day, it depends on the government's beginning. And, therefore, he votes for something in the Fegamp and he votes for it in this Parliament without delay. They're real Virachachetes, of course they act like this. So it's crucial, it's urgent, it's important, to reach agreements on these issues because, as we said before, it's a time when the municipalities need to deal with a lot of emergencies from this crisis. In addition, it is necessary and urgent to resolve the issue of municipal competences, because here what was agreed in the local Covenant is that the municipalities had less competences — also in the Stability Act — and it turns out that the municipalities have more competences and have less income. They have more expenses, many of them for transfers from Galician Union, and they have less income. Let's not say it now. So how did we get here? Because, of course, the People's Party now says that we have to study, that we have to set up a commission. But where did we come from? We have seen that, after the 2006 Local Compact in 2010, the Local Cooperation Commission is established, which does not meet from 2010 until 2017 — governing the People's Party. She doesn't meet once or for all! And this is what matters to the People's Party, the People's Party's Union, to resolve these issues. Seven years without a meeting! That is because, in 2013, the bomb and dish — I will not say who was at that time president of the Fegamp, but it is here in this Parliament, sitting on the benches of the People's Party — is announced to bomb and dish, the local water pact. And it turns out they're now selling us the motorcycle of that public water management company. But what have you been doing in all these seven years of ruling at Galician Union? Why haven't they made any arrangements yet? By the way, if they want to come to an agreement, they don't call it "Water Sougama." We don't argue that there has to be a company called "public water management company," but watch out for those nicknames, for those nicknames, for them to put on, that don't sound very well there. So, at this point, to the Local Water Pact, in 2017 we reached an agreement here in this Parliament to develop and comply with the Local Water Pact. We're waiting for that compliment. And it turns out that now Mr. President-in-Office of the Council — in 2017 too, as I said before — announces a law to regulate the funding of the councils and the Local Cooperation Fund. We've been waiting for three years. And by the way, about the water and the water cycle, they read the Water Law that approved the People's Party. It clearly says what are the competences. And in the case of purification, sanitation, the declared sanitation facilities of self-interest are within the competence of the Union. That's why Galician Union manages many debuggers — which, by the way, work very badly. And you're going to have to explain to us why you invested 1,100 million euros -- as they said here, that they boast, that they boast, that they invest 1,100 million euros -- and we've made a mess of laughter. They have several sanctions procedures open by the European Union. And that's not primarily the responsibility of the municipalities, it's mainly the responsibility of the board. Because the Water Law also says that the Board had to make the General Supply Plan and the General Sanitation Plan, and they didn't. Therefore, lessons, minimums. Because, of course, they're now making the local sanitation plan of the Pontevedra stream, but it turns out they haven't previously made the general plan. This is not serious; therefore, I care about lessons. And when the Eume passes through Pontevedra, evil, evil! Because, in addition, they quote here and have the holy jet, the morro or the morrazo — as they want to call it — to quote the river of the Gafos of Pontevedra, when the river of the Gafos was on the Galicia-costa hydrological plan with a provision of 1.1 million euros that financed the Junta of Galicia and that they decided to breach that commitment, to breach the commitment of an agreement with the Pontevedra Town Council — that I had to finance with my own funds and the Deputation — you have to come here and talk about the river of the Gafos and that they will solve the problem of the river of the Gafos!, when you failed something that is written in the Galicia-costa hydrological plan. When they stopped spending that money there, they took them somewhere else. And that's why we're saying that to you the misappropriation of public funds, or at least misuse or abuse of public funds, they're short. Anyway, watch out for those things. What we propose, and which is of all logic, is absolutely reasonable, is that the funds of those grants and those conventions — those agreements that are signed by the back door before passing mayors and mayors by the offices of the Environmental Adviser, or by the Infrastructure Adviser, and then signing the corresponding agreement with the administrations of the People's Party, which is absolutely scandalous — are part of the Local Cooperation Fund. Because we've already told them that the data is powerful. Only one third of the funding of the municipalities, the money that goes to the municipalities, is in the Local Cooperation Fund. Then there's two thirds going another way. The best thing is that all that money is in a single fund, in the Single Plan, in the Town Council Fund, which is divided by objective criteria — just as it is for everyone — and that this is shielded by law, which remains for history, for the future, for those who come after, that will be another color. They will no longer be the dark blue of the People's Party, dark, very dark. Well, by the way, after ten years of paralysis in which none of these issues have been resolved, they are now taking out announcements from the joke—for in this they are wise, as the advisor has done today. And Mr. President of Galicia, Mr. Alberto Núñez Fexóo, at the meeting he held on 6 October with the Fegamp directive, said: We are going to hold a meeting before the end of the year of the Local Cooperation Commission to address all these issues, some news, such as the children of the young women, which I do not say is a very important matter, and others who come back, many years ago, such as the problem of water, such as the problem of emergencies — which is not solved by the emergency map — such as the problem of local funding and the Local Cooperation Fund. And he set a deadline until the end of the year. After ten years of paralysis, of inability — because you are not interested in resolving this issue, because you are also aware of this, and because you are going to have to tell many of the People's Party councils — who used to pass through the office and then sign the agreement — that this is over, and that's why they're not interested. But they fulfill their commitments and, above all, they abide by the agreements signed by the Fegamp, which commit us all, to everyone!, to the BNG, to the PSOE and also to the People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u191	Thank you, Mr Bará. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u192	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As a matter of precedent, I wanted to tell Mr Bará that in the People's Parliamentary Group, we don't get used to anyone's religious beliefs, nor to non-credulous beliefs. You're given a lot to that. And I'm not going to tell him to apologize but yes, at least to repent internally. Because you accused me of lying in my intervention to say that the Deputy of Pontevedra signed agreements with the counties of the Socialist Party and the Galician Nationalist Block. I drew this graph and you here came out like a rage, you were indeed angry -- because Mrs. Rumbo told me that I was angry and then she seemed here that she had electricity, and she accused me of lying. [[Mrs. Prado del Río shows a chart from the stage.]] I said, "Well, as I dreamed, I'll look again. I went down to the office, opened the computer, entered the website of the Deputy of Pontevedra, Mr Bará, and there's not one, is that there are 335 agreements signed with municipalities and other entities. Look, all those agreements that you have denied, and so you accused me of lying, Mr Bará — the lie has very short legs — are summarized in this chart. I know it's very difficult to defend what you do in the Pontevedra Parliament, or in the Lugo Parliament, and come here and tell the board that you're doing something caciquil. Caciquil is what you do in the Pontevedra Parliamentary. [[Applause]] And, look, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo said that the larger municipalities are the ones that have the greatest financial capacity. Then tell your companion, Mrs. Silva, too, because she gives Vigo and Pontevedra more money than small towns. Oh, of course! But these councils are governed by the People's Party. That's sectarianism, and that's caciquil, Mr Bará. But already aside from the conventions — which seem to have been disliked — we're going to talk about the plans. We're talking about plans, plans of rebalancing depoRemse Mire, outside the plans of the municipalities, the Pontevedra MP approved the rebalancing plans in 2017, the depoRemse from the years 2018 and 2019. You know them well, I know you know them. It has broken down in these three years 29 million euros. And by comparing the beneficiaries with the two plans, this is the data. Again the cheese is in purple. [[Mrs. Prado del Río shows a chart from the stage.]] Look, PSOE and BNG, 17.5 million euros — i.e. 67.6% —; poor PP municipalities, 6.2 million euros — i.e. 23.9%, Mr Bará. But then we have the top ten municipalities — which, if you see the question, is almost purple; almost, almost, you miss very little. Because, look, of the top ten municipalities, of the most money they receive — which is 11.4 million euros — 8 are from the PSOE and BNG and two municipalities, these top ten, are from the PP, and they get 1.7 million euros. Here's the graph. I understand that it is very difficult to justify the caciquil attitude of the Galician Nationalist Bloc and the Socialist Party in the Deputy of Lugo and in the Deputy of Pontevedra. And you come here to talk about the Government of Galicia, which has been protecting the funding of the Town Councils with the Local Cooperation Fund to guarantee it and even to give them more money than they were, in full economic crisis and with a spectacular drop in income from the Autonomic Administration. Despite this, the funding of the municipalities has been maintained, even above what was corresponding to more than 30 million euros in recent years, Mr Bará. And then we also have the municipalities empty. These are those of the "blue issue", those who do not receive absolutely not a euro from the Pontevedra Parliament. It's 12 PP municipalities. And, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, that you act like this doesn't mean that the People's Party acts like that. If it's their way of acting, their way of ruling, don't think others do the same thing. Think of the thief who is all of the same condition. No, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, no. The People's Party rules for all, and there's... No, it is an insult to the intelligence of the Greeks and the Greeks to say that the Government of the People's Party does not rule for all and that the Greeks and the Greeks systematically, every four years, continue to support the governments of the People's Party — and with more and more support in the polls, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo—. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Look, you told us we learned from socialist governments. Is this what we have to learn from socialist governments? This? Ways of giving more money only to the municipalities of our political color? No, no, no, no. What do we have to learn from socialist governments? Look, you were saying before the Ministry of Business highlighted your commitment to the municipalities in a press release of October 5, 2020. Look, commitments have to be made, and don't do pyrotechnics, marketing, you know? That's the Moncloa factory: press rounds, press notes... but, look, I remind you that Mr. Sánchez's government, invested with the votes of the Galician Nationalist Block, has achieved one of the greatest defeats that are remembered in the recent history of the Spanish Parliament, which was with Royal Decree-Law 2720 of 4 August, of financial measures, of an extraordinary and urgent nature, applicable to local authorities. Remember which one? Well, look, they managed to agree to 8,131 Spanish municipalities -- sorry, 8,130, because there's one, the Vigo Town Hall, which was, with its quality vote, which tried to make that fallow to the Spanish Town Councils. It was EUR 14,000 million that wanted to steal from the savings of the Greek municipalities. Mr. Bará, Madrid does not steal, Spain does not steal, who steals is Sánchez. Sánchez did steal Galicia and intended to rob all the municipalities of Spain. Look, do we also have to learn from the Government of Spain, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo, in the general government budgets that are being debated these days? Look, no, because any apparent increase in the general government budgets for the municipalities comes from the Resilience Fund. They are funds from the European Union and it is not known which criteria will be used to distribute them or whether they will be managed by the Autonomous Community or whether they will be managed directly by the municipalities or who will control them. You do not know who will manage them or how they will be distributed. We don't know if they're going to consider aging criteria, population dispersion... why do you know, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo? You bring here today an initiative in which you want us to pass a law for that fund-sharing. But, look, for that allocation of funds, it must be made clear what the previous President of the Fegamp had to do when he met with the President of the Union, who said that the law had to be made, but that we had to be very clear what the financing of the Autonomous Community was. And we kept it very clear until Mr. Sánchez arrived, reinvented it and broke with all the previous consensus. And now we don't know how the funds are distributed, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Can you say here today how these funds will be distributed to the municipalities, those funds that come in the general budgets of the state and that they are still a mirrorism for the municipalities, for the local administration? You know that's a mortgage, don't you? It's a long-term mortgage because that money has to be returned, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. They're money from the European Union, it's not a gift from either Sánchez or his minister, who gives press notes with his commitment to the municipalities, that of... "Well, what's a billion euros, boy!Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh That one that despises millions from a thousand, millions from a thousand, is the one that has the commitment to the municipalities, that it tries to steal the 14,000 million of the city council's savings, and now it says it's very committed. Well, look, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, I'm sorry to tell you they have no credibility. They have no credibility for the municipalities or for this parliamentary group or for society in general. And that's why they lose vows like water in their hands when they get under a tap. It's very funny to her, but I don't think she laughed so much on July 12, lady who laughed so much. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, what we have of course is that the criteria for self-financing need to be changed, because Galicia is currently being discriminated against. And as long as we do not have funding, funding criteria for the Autonomous Community, we will hardly be able to set funding criteria for the municipalities. You know that and Fegamp knows that. You came here today and spoke before a bill that you introduced to this House. And you used to ask me, can't we bring Fegamp's agreements here? Yes, of course, what you can't manipulate and say here is that they bring an initiative that says they are consensual with Fegamp and that it turns out that Fegamp didn't know anything about that bill that you presented and defended in this same gallery, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. So, between lies and manipulations, I think this group is safer than you. Because one who lies and says that others lie; another who manipulates... bring the initiatives they want. But then we have absolutely the right to disassemble them and to tell them that what brings consensus with the Fegamp, which is what Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo said at that time, is neither consensus nor dialogue nor anything at all. And, look, actually between Fegamp and Junta there's consensus on a lot of things, there's dialogue in a lot of things. In fact, there are many things that can't be done. But it's not because of the will of the People's Party, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. No, no... of course, if you deny the evidence, if you deny that it is obvious that you have to have clear criteria for self-financing in order to be able to set clear criteria for local funding, if you deny the biggest, logically we will never reach any agreement. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u193	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u194	But fortunately, the former president, the socialist president of the Fegamp, had made it clear and was aware that, while the financing of the autonomous communities was not reformulated, the legislative text could hardly be approved. In fact, you brought him to this House and now he's gone. Bring him back. If there's a consensus, if there's a dialogue, if you say you bring here a legislative text that's agreed on in the Fegamp, why don't you bring it back? I dare you to bring him in. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u195	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u196	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Bará began his reply by saying that there were reasonable doubts that the PP did not support this initiative, an initiative with agreements that were taken by its mayors and mayors at the Fegamp, who voted in favour unanimously there, so that the People's Party in this House would vote against. After Mrs. Paula Prado del Río's words, I'm not surprised. I didn't really count anymore, but well, I still had some hope. You come here to this gallery trying to divert the debate because you don't want to focus, because you get colored in front of the evidence. I come here to talk about the obligations of the Galician Union, and I told you in my previous intervention that we will shortly bring an initiative in which we will show you with data and graphics how you distribute the Galician Union to the Greek municipalities, without any justification the councils governed by the People's Party. And here we've been talking about the Galician Union and questioning the management of the Galician Union with regard to the local authorities in Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] And you also talked about stealing in this House. To me, the truth is, it seems quite, quite, strong. You've also talked about European funds. Look, I remind you, I'm talking right now. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Please hear her carefully, though she does not, of course, share many of the things she has said. You talked about European funds. And, look, I remind you that the Galician Board says -- also in a press release -- that it has presented 108 projects to the state to these European funds. And we — Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament and Members of this House — know nothing of the projects that have been presented to the Government of the State. Look, you -- the People's Party -- are experts on waking up on paper to never be accomplished. I reminded him in my first speech of the 2016 election program and what they put in the 2020 election program. Socialists understand that an electoral program is a commitment to our citizenship, a commitment to, as far as possible, to fulfill what is written there. But you didn't intend to meet that commitment in 2016, and they don't intend to meet that commitment in 2020 either. I assure you, when we brought the Local Finance Bill, I was talking to Fegamp. You can come here and say whatever you want, but best what you're lying to. And we'll bring back texts agreed with the Fegamp so that you again, applying your knee, probably vote against. In any case, I'm going to read what we ask in our initiative so you're aware of what you're going to vote against. We call for the approval of an autonomous law with Fegamp to regulate participation in the financing of the Greek municipalities by the Galician Union. We call for an increase in the Local Cooperation Fund for the financial year 2021 to include non-finalist shares within the total transfer chapter of the Galician Union to local authorities. And we are asking to establish in this year 2020, with a view to the next approval of the 2021 budgets, the criteria governing the allocation of grants from the Autonomous Community to local authorities — objectives consistent with the Fegamp — and to ensure equal access for all of them by a public call to which all municipalities compete on equal opportunities. And you will show us, Mrs Prado del Río, will show us, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that they are colored by the way they have to use the resources that are of all and of all to favor, simply to a great extent, those that are theirs. And I remind you of just one example, the Hurbe Plan: of 39 subsidised municipalities, 1 is from the Socialist Party and 38 from the People's Party. I have nothing else to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u197	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Next proposal is not law. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demands to be made by the Central Government in relation to the Vigo-O Porto railway line
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u198	A amendment has been tabled to this non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u199	To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Fernández Gómez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u200	Thank you, President. Well, let's bring this initiative on the Vigo-O Porto connection. In some places they recycle and retrieve vintage trains to dedicate them to tourism. And the truth is, the Vigo-O Port line seems to be better designed for that, to travel over time, both in rolling stock, which consists of recycled trains of recycling, as well as infrastructure, directly from the 19th century. The same is true of frequencies. At this point there is a daily frequency between Vigo and O Porto, one that leaves at eight in the morning, and another that returns from Porto to Vigo at eight in the morning. I mean, today we have to make the night in the place of destination so we can get back. I think maybe in the 19th century it was easier to get back from The Port. And this, which has been producing decades, this dismantling between Vigo and O Porto, because it's a hidden process for the disappearance of the connection. And it's especially serious because we're talking about the most populated city in Galicia and, on the other hand, about the most important urban conurbation in the northwest, which at the same time are two cities, two nodes, fundamental to the Atlantic axis. It is absolutely abnormal, in addition, within the European context that two large cities that are part of a single urban system because they do not have a rail mobility option, because it is clear that what is not a real option today. But we also have a background structural problem, which is that the line from The Coruña to the Port is formed by two separate systems: from the Coruña to Vigo we have a railway system that ends at the Urzáiz station; and from Vigo to the Port we have another system from the Guixar station. I mean, in Vigo you clearly see that structural problem with two stations for two segregated systems. So in this non-law proposal we raised the need to solve the problem in two directions: on the one hand, the short-term strategy to solve the need to halt the dismantling process; and on the other hand, the medium- and long-term strategy to solve the underlying structural problem. In the short-term objective — as I say — there must be a halt to this covert dismantling process that has been systematically fostered by the Central Government for years. It is urgent to improve the rolling stock, it is urgent to increase frequencies — and here I want to point out that we present a self-amendment because when we present this initiative the context of the pandemic was another, and we believe that the level of frequencies is also normal to adapt to the situation of the pandemic. And we have to move forward in electrification. But we also know that all of this is still patchy and that the fundamental thing is the medium-term objective we have -- in a period of about ten years -- that is to solve the southern exit. This is the fundamental work, the key to the vault to make it a single continuous Atlantic axis from The Coruña to Lisbon. Well, the situation I've described is serious, it's abnormal, but it's not random. It is the result of a state project that was based mainly on the development of a radial model of infrastructure that it had and has as its fundamental objective to convert Madrid into political capital, economic capital, and now financial capital, the cost of the rest of the territories. And this has been the case in Spain since the 18th century. This radial infrastructure model has never been developed under criteria of social profitability, not even under liberal criteria of empowerment of economic productivity; but always under the unique criterion of spatially ordering political power to the service of capital. And, of course, in the case of Madrid this has always been quite problematic, because Madrid has always been a capital against nature, it is an exception throughout the European context. There is no other capital that has no maritime-fluvial connection. And that, in the face of a peninsula context full of harbor cities with geo-strategic compositions in the Atlantic and in the Mediterranean much better, I had a great effort to build that anti-natural capital. Converting Madrid to this large capital required an effort that was channelled mainly into two strategies: on the one hand, the design of the radial model of infrastructures, and, on the other hand, the strategy of the disarticulation of coastal corridors. And this is the bottom line. It's not like Galicia's trains are late because they are. There's a tension between two different models of understanding the territorial vertebration of the peninsula, and there are two different models of understanding what the geopolitical role Galicia should play. For the Galician State it must simply be an extreme of that radial structure subject to the project of accumulation and concentration of capital, and also of human capital, towards Madrid — and at the same time, we must boycott that coastal corridor. And from our perspective this is unacceptable and unacceptable from our daily mobility needs, from our economic development potential, from the potential that we have to be part of one of the most powerful urban systems in the Peninsula and the European context. Because, despite this radial model that was intended to be imposed on the Peninsula, there are currently three major urban systems: Madrid, the Mediterranean coastal system and the Atlantic coastal system. And as much as the state has tried to avoid it, we are a continuous urban system from The Coruña to Lisbon. We are despite centuries of boycott programmed; we are despite dictatorships that have strengthened borders, maps that systematically erase Portugal, which erase our territory to the south, because coastal dynamics are more powerful; we are because coastal dynamics are more powerful, because cultural continuity, continuity of forms of occupation of the territory is very strong; and, despite Madrid, we are a single Atlantic urban system, which only in the northern region of Portugal and Galicia is 6.5 million inhabitants. [[Applause]] And besides, an urban system that in the case of Galicia has a series of specifics by which the radial model poses a great danger and the coastal corridor would bring great advantages. Our urban system is a polycentric model of medium cities; that is, we don't have a great city as is the case of Barcelona that can counter the suction dynamics that generates the radial model. That's why the radial model in our case is a great danger. On the contrary, we have a model that works from the complementarity of the different cities, the proximity relationships and the articulation of a continuous urban that goes to Porto and extends to Lisbon. That's why the coastal corridor would be a great opportunity to connect the main nodes in thirty-minute intervals or reaching up to an hour, with the goal of placing Vigo-Braga in thirty-five minutes and Vigo-O Port in less than an hour. Because the bottom line is to strengthen the urban polycentric system we have on the northwest of the Peninsula. And the railway connection to the south of Vigo must also be understood as an opportunity to improve infrastructure throughout the metropolitan area to the south, it is an opportunity to connect Vigo to the whole area and reorder all communications. This southern exit plan towards Vigo and the Vigo port connection must go hand in hand to a study of what is the whole neighbourhood system, because we have the potential to recycle the current infrastructure to define a new neighbourhood system south of the city. It must also be an opportunity to improve the conflicting places of the infrastructure, such as the passage through the village of Porriño, which divides the city into two. You have to think about it from the point of view of the set, not just from the point of view of the large backend. And we have been under the role that Madrid imposes on us for too long, and we all know that both the People's Party and the Socialist Party in Moncloa have always ruled in the service of this radial model; besides, with some opacity, because these types of projects have never been openly discussed, they have always been discussed in offices or in camilla tables with a political entrepreneurship that exercises power and sovereignty behind citizenship. With this initiative, therefore, we also want to give light here, from the German Parliament, to demand a correction of that policy. We want to send a clear message with this initiative: we are a single urban system and therefore we want a single rail system, continuous, articulated, emancipated from centralist politics, so that we can play a fundamental role in the Atlantic and in the international context. And, in addition, this is a fundamental moment, because in recent decades, in the context of the European negotiations on large international infrastructures, it has actually given a division of geopolitical roles as to what role each part of the peninsula should play. There is a kind of tacit agreement within the European context that Portugal has developed the ports of the Atlantic façade and Spain would focus on the ports of the Mediterranean and the Basque Country. You just have to see all the infrastructure investments in railway connections of railway intermodality with ports. And with European funds in recent decades Spain has decided to bet solely on the Atlantic on the Madrid-Lisboa connection, because the fundamental objective, once again, was to place Madrid as the fundamental node of the connections between the Portuguese ports of the Atlantic and Europe. But the Portuguese Government has just made it clear that this is no longer its model, that they will not bet on that model in passengers, that its priority is no longer Lisbon-Madrid and will be the development of the Atlantic axis. From there too our self-amendment. After these statements, we have created a need to update our initiative on the progress being made on the Portuguese side. That's why we're at a fundamental moment, we have the hand held on the Portuguese side, it's crucial that the southern part of the Atlantic axis is looking north and we also have an injection of European funds for the next few years...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u201	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u202	...—I've come to an end—that will define the future of the next decades. That's why this is the time to make a determined bet in defending our interests, and that's why we also say that it's not enough with a favorable vote, that the Galician Union must stand in front of this project, it must lead it and it must open a negotiation with the state. And here each party must exercise responsibility from the powers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u203	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u204	...who has each one. I'm done. We ask the People's Party to act, it is in front of the Government of this country, to lead this project. And to the Socialist Party, which corrects and must meet the demands of the Greeks and the Greeks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u205	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] On behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Egerique Mosquera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u206	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. We present an amendment with a somewhat modified text, which seems more realistic given the last agreements of the Hispanic-luso summit and the last meeting between the presidents of Asturias, Castela-León and Galicia, communities that, once again, again and again, overcome discrimination by the PSOE and Podemos Government, which once again looks towards the Mediterranean and gives its back to the northwest. Last Friday in Commission 2 we discussed an LNP and with the Socialist Party's abstention we took forward an initiative that called for a viable and realistic schedule for the processing of Vigo's southern exit, a strategic performance that has credited its economic and social profitability. We were quite surprised by the Socialist Party's abstention, but it remained in evidence, it was very clear that they were before for the interests of Sánchez rather than for the interests of Vigo or Galicia. There were reactions, but it is true that it seems a lie that in the southern exit, in that demand — as the spokesman for the Nationalist Block Galego said — that so many times it is being asked, which is fundamental to the connection with Portugal, in this case the Socialist Party looks elsewhere. That infrastructure — as I say — is crucial, not only for Vigo's development and its metropolitan area, but also for improving the connection with Portugal — as I say. It's a truce necessary to avoid the passage through Round it, to modernise the plot, to take the first step towards high speed with Portugal. The budgets of the submitted state reduce 11% of the investments in Galicia, they completely discriminate against the north-west, so that, as we see the Mediterranean corridor advance, the north-west gets behind. And in the committee debate, I remember the amounts, which I will remember today, too again, because it is important to know not only the intentions, but to reflect the budgets. In the Journal of León they said or October 17, "Investment of 7 billion to the Mediterranean corridor with the undefined Atlantic". And they said, "The abyss is in the compass. The Levantino arch knows the money with which it will count over the next three years, the north-west one waits anxiously for the projects of León, Galicia and Asturias to be defined." The Journal of Levante said: "The Mediterranean corridor receives 800 million more than the Atlantic railway axis." And the news tells them that "the Atlantic corridor in Spain receives nearly 800 million euros less than the Mediterranean and that half of that money is concentrated in the Basque Country and in Extremadura". I mean, Galicia, Asturias and Castile-Leon, again totally discriminated against. And they worry about us, they worry about us and they care about us very much. And, with regard to Portugal, while the Portuguese Government has already shown its commitment to fincapé in European funds, clearly explaining how it will try to access these funds to reach the connection with Lisbon-O Porto, Porto-Vigo, the Government of Spain does not give any clue, nor do we even see it reluctant to recover the services it has eliminated in connection with Portugal, indeed by the vault, but with an excuse for the pandemic we believe that we do not want to recover again. We believe these services are also fundamental, these are requests that you submit to your LNP and that we support them too. Galicia needs competitive travel times with Portugal, and for that it is not enough to electrify the current line that is being executed, because it is trying to mess with budgets to say that it is done but not doing anything. In recent years, government-driven actions are restricted to the existing line, but we want to have a high-speed boost with Portugal, which would mean a 57% reduction in travel times. The high-speed train between Vigo and the Portuguese border includes 21 kilometres, an investment of 578 million euros. That's in state budgets, nothing at all. It's okay, too, and we have to know. And still above the press, which is not from Galicia — so that you don't suspect anything — also says that most of the money destined for the northwest corridor, the Atlantic corridor, goes to the Basque Country. Galicia, once again, discriminated against. As you have said on several occasions to the Infrastructure Adviser and we in this parliament, the Board has transferred to the Government of Spain a cost-benefit study that believes the profitability of the southern exit of Vigo, to which if no response was obtained, and, as you know, the southern exit is a crucial extension — as I said — for the high speed with Portugal. We're asking for a schedule. The PSOE abstained and, as I said, there were reactions, and the mayor of Vigo is today accompanied by a state secretary who opened an orchestra with a Vigo wall — that the truth is that he stayed very pretty — and said, please! please! please!, you have to do here, you have to compromise yourself with the exit of Vigo, because the other day in Parliament the PSOE has abstained, we remain in a real ridiculous, and it is a necessary infrastructure for the city. And, then, today, the Secretary of State comes out and takes out of his sleeve because a number of deadlines and commitments. But look, our reliability with Knight on infrastructure is zero, it's zero, because look, Abel Caballero announces the high speed for 1993; it's the reliability that gives us Abel Caballero's words about commitments. In budgets the game for the south exit is not reflected. [[Applause]] It is essential that it be reflected so that it can be done. So we will continue to demand, as we have always done; besides, from the Unity of Galicia, with great loyalty. All the information we have comes from the Portuguese Government. That's why I say today, at a pre- and rapid meeting, Knight had to tell the Secretary of State that it was the interesting thing to announce, and there he said it in a press round. Let us hope that this can also be continued — as I say — in the budgets, because the Parliamentary Group in Congress has already tabled an amendment. As I said, the information comes from the Portuguese Government. For now, the Spanish Government has nothing, no news. And I wouldn't speak, gentlemen of the Galician Nationalist Block, in this case, of a radial vision or planning. Mrs Alexandra went into a deep debate, which is true that we could debate on this subject, but, in this case, the Government of Spain has a south-east planning, it is absolutely a cut in the middle of the Peninsula, and the northwest does not exist at all, because it is reflected — as I say — in the State budgets and in the investments that Mr. Ábalos makes towards his country of Valencia and also towards Catalonia. Because the truth is, it is clear that both railway infrastructures and port infrastructures receive huge amounts of money compared to Galicia. So, to the Government of Spain, which also supports the Galego Nationalist Block, we must also claim what is ours, at least to be equal, in the same balance in the case of investments, because it is clear that the Socialist Party always stands in the south. You were talking today about the Lisbon-Madrid option. I remember when José Blanco went to negotiate the Atlantic corridor to Brussels and his choice was Lisbon-Madrid-Bilbao; there he was also completely erased from the map. We from the PPdeG will continue to demand the rapid connection with the Meseta and Portugal, the Meseta too, because if we talk here about the importance of the Atlantic axis of course and the entire coastline of the west we cannot forget that it is also important to have a good connection with the Meseta. So we will continue to claim — as I say — with loyalty, and we want to be in the same conditions as the other part of the Peninsula on the playing field. In Madrid they should know the volume of activity of Sá Carneiro and Leixões, because they're two important points, because Galicia is crucial, and we have to be playing in the same conditions and with the same infrastructures and we can't stay behind in this case. I reiterate that, by reading the State budgets, we are left behind, we are left behind, as always, when the Socialist Party is ruling. A few days ago Zamora-Pedralba, one of the most complex truces for his orography, was inaugurated, at a cost of EUR 898 million, driven mostly as the People's Party ruled. Let us hope that the Socialist Party will also advance Galicia's interests in this case and not win, as it did in some votes and as it does in some initiatives, always the interests of Mr Sánchez, rather than the interests of Galicia. He used to talk about the northwest front, of Asturias, Galicia and Castile-Leon, of the importance of the meetings held among the various presidents of the autonomous communities, of different political colors, demanding the help of Europe. It is important that we know that there are EUR 30 billion for the entire network, but that we have to claim it with a specific figure, which is EUR 3100 million, and that is what the Government of Spain should provide until 2025, to modernise the Atlantic branch, the key infrastructure to balance the competitiveness of the territories of Spain and Portugal. But, as I say, we don't know anything about that, and we are at a crucial moment in addition to being able to access the European funds Connect Europe, the reconstruction funds Next Generation. We need to be alert and not forget this part of Spain, Galicia. And from what we see and from constant demonstrations, the Mediterranean always grows to the detriment of the Atlantic. We insist that the Union maintain a proactive and loyal line, because, as I said, a study has been sent to the Ministry of Development to explain, in addition, what benefits are, how important it is, in addition to value and social terms, to connect Galicia with Portugal, how important the southern exit of Vigo is. The amendment we tabled respects the need and our desire for high speed with Portugal to be a reality. We share the need for this infrastructure, but we approve on this very initiative the creation of a proximity service with the Low Mine distorts the request we must make today from this parliament, because it is already imminent and the budgets are already presented. We also included interesting additional information, as the southern exit of Vigo was included in the basic network TNT in June 2019, thanks to the negotiation maintained by the Asturias, Castile-Leon and Galicia governments before the Community authorities and whose works must be completed before 30-12-2030, the date revealed by the Portuguese Minister of Transport, which even clearly stated: "Madrid must put deadlines to the southern Vigella exit." Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[The Voice of Galicia]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u207	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u208	I'm done, president. The Portuguese minister also puts the batteries to the Government of Spain, puts the batteries to Mr. Abalos: "Madrid must set deadlines for the southern Vigella exit." We hope to reach an agreement that is beneficial to Galicia and the Greeks and step by step to the entire north-west, that for this PSOE government we may not seem to exist.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u209	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Otero Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u210	Thank you, President. Good night now, gentlemen. The truth is one doesn't know where to start, after hearing the cynicism of the People's Party spokesman. Mrs. Egerique, you, who is from Vigo, know that you have failed on repeated occasions the truth throughout your intervention. He said there was evidence of the Socialist Party after last Friday's vote on Commission 2nd. He says we didn't bet on the south exit, we turned our backs on the south exit. So much so that we turn our backs on the southern exit that today the Secretary General of Infrastructure of the Ministry of Transport announced the bid for the southern exit project for the coming year; we both turn our backs on the southern exit! [[Applause]] Look, Mrs. Egerique, the not bet of the Government of Pedro Sánchez on the southern exit, the not bet on budget allocation for this project, look at the central government's not bet on the south exit, because the other day in the commission we make it very clear the position of the PSdEG: the south exit, yes, south exit proposed by the Board of Galicia, by the Harbour Authority, no. So don't twist my words, because I made it very clear that we were in favour of the southern exit, but today's events also corroborated my intervention the other day. The truth is that mixing and talking about orchestras when we're talking about such an important work for the city of Vigo shows that you don't seem to know the importance of this infrastructure for the city of Vigo. Well, the truth is, the orchestra formed by the concelers of the Socialist Party of Vigo would sound much higher than the one formed by the People's Party; of course, that's clear. [[Applause]] It's just that now you're from the bannermen of Vigo's southern railway exit. Now they remember to demand such an important infrastructure for Vigo, but when the People's Party was ruling in Madrid, both when Mr Aznar and Mr Rajoy were ruling, the German People's Parliamentary Group was silent and did not ask for that infrastructure. Here we were talking about a historical demand, and that's what we agree with. But to be honest, I believe that both the President of the Board and the former President of the Government, Mr. Rajoy, should explain how the Central Executive has driven this action since 2012, or, better said, how it has not been driven from Rajoy's governments this project. And also the former mayor of Vigo, the current secretary of the Bureau of this House, Mrs. Porro, should explain why, when he was holding the mayor's office, he developed a project of access to the station of Urzáiz that prevented the southern exit, since the train was going to go in mad and that exit was not possible because it was collapsing with the buildings of the Urzáiz Street. It's a pity that he invalidated this project Abel Caballero when he arrived at Vigo!, the plan of access to the Urzáiz station that would prevent Vigo's southern exit, invalidated by a socialist mayor in Vigo and a minister of Socialist Development in Madrid. And look, in the area of rail planning, at all that is done in the present condition of the future. And if you were going ahead with the action project you intended to take the train to Vigo from Roundup, through Teis, breaking Teis and zero quota, that would mean that we couldn't be talking about the southern exit today. And who was supporting that project? The Vigo People's Party, with its mayorate in mind, and also at times the Galician Nationalist Block. So it was necessary to remember that, given the paralysis of that project, today we may be talking about the southern exit. What gave life to the southern railway exit of Vigo was the paralyzing of that project and that the train had entered Urzaiz underground; management carried out by Vigo mayor Abel Caballero. [[Applause]] We, from the PSdeG, have always been in favour of the southern railway exit of Vigo, and in that we are going back to the Commission the other day, but it seems to me that Mrs Egerique did not make it clear. I repeat it again, I said: "South exit, yes; not to the exit which posed the Board of Galicia and the Harbour Authority of Vigo. By the way, they talk about such collaboration, but without consensus and without counting on the Vigo Town Hall either. This project also included a railway connection from the Bouzas terminal, traced this one with a huge environmental impact that dramatically breaks the city of Vigo and still above does not generate added value for Vigo companies, nor for the region, nor for the rest of Galicia. It's just that not even the main company in the city, Citroën, wants this project. But the worst of all is that this project of the Galic Union Bouzas train and the Port Authority of Vigo arrives at a southern exit that does not exist. Anyway, hurry is what they have. They have been in a hurry since June 1, 2018 -- the day of the motion of censure -- and, of course, these things happened when they presented this project in July 2018, without realizing that there was no such southern exit. For the Government of Spain the southern exit is a priority, and in the 2021 State Budget Project contains a match for the southern exit of Vigo; therefore, stop failing the truth again. At the beginning of 2021 the study of alternatives to see the railway configuration of the southern exit with three objectives: one, unifying the transport of passengers in relation to the Urzáiz station; two, improving the connectivity of the goods; and three, ensuring the connection of the railway Atlantic Axis with Portugal. This announcement was made even today by a general secretary of Infrastructure, as Mrs. Egerique said. Look at the difference, you do press rounds with publicity and propaganda, and we talk about facts, putting them in budget projects for that year 2021. Support, support that budget project. [[Applause]] Look, now this performance of the city of Vigo is unstoppable. The southern railway exit of Vigo begins and begins with a functional study to determine the possible alternatives and how to make the tunnel. Of course it's unstoppable, but what did Mrs. Ana Pastor do for five years, putting both the Vigo VA project and the southern exit project in a drawer? So now there are facts, not earlier. This southern exit will be linked to Portugal's project to vertebrate all Portugal with high speed, especially Lisbon, Porto and Vigo, which in Vigo will enter the entrance south and Vigo will follow Cercedo to Madrid. I am studying this -- the latter -- which is now being done with the Government of Pedro Sánchez, because previously they had not even taken this study into account. Therefore, the central government's determined bet on Vigo's southern exit, and that project will be biddered early next year. They don't seem to be interested in Vigo getting better. [[Murmurs.]] We also agreed with BNG in the need to find an alternative to the railway crossing through the center of the village of Porriño. At this point we also have to say that the Government of Spain is already working to respond to a historic demand, such as the elimination of the dangerous step at the level existing in the center of the Porriño. In September of this year, studies and drafting of this step-by-step suppression project were evaluated. This contract is part of the actions envisaged by Adif for the abolition and improvement of the protection of steps at the level of the rail network of general interest, in order to increase the safety conditions of transport infrastructures for both citizens and rail traffic. And in this sense, Adif is working on the progressive suppression of those steps at the highest level of traffic in vehicles and trains, in accordance with the legislation established in this matter. As for the electrification point of the track, I believe that the drafting of the Galego Nationalist Block, perhaps, is not the most appropriate one, since we do not believe that it is we who have to put our duties on the other side of Mine, but in connection with this request it is important to remember that in October this year, at the Luso-Spanish Summit, both countries expressed their willingness to move forward in the improvement of the railway connection The Porto-Vigo, and welcomed both of them for the completion of the electrification works on the Spanish side. So another compliment on the Central Government. As far as improvements and security conditions are concerned, we fully agree with what the Galician Nationalist Block calls for. We are strongly called the attention that the amendment of the People's Party suppresses, among other things, that of security. We, from the PSdeG, believe that it is a fundamental thing and we believe that it should be a fundamental thing for all parliamentary groups, because we all have examples in our retinas. With regard to the recovery of the railway services suppressed by the vault, we agree that as far as the situation permits it to be recovered, and so is the Central Government. And about the last point of the non-law proposition of the Galician Nationalist Block, I mean...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u211	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u212	...and I will finish, President—that Renfe has acquired new equipment for all Spain that will replace the old ones and that I am sure will also affect this line. By the way, Mariano Rajoy's governments, zero euros for the replacement of old equipment. In short, all that is being requested on this initiative by the Galician Nationalist Block are things that the Central Government is already doing or in which it is working. So we agree with the demands that are presented...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u213	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u214	...this initiative. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u215	Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u216	For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Fernández Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u217	We have made an intervention looking for a country position, looking for a substantive debate on what is the challenge we have at hand in this country, and you go out with a competitive pim pam pom between the Government of the United States and the Central Government. I sincerely believe that you do not transfer responsibility to Moncloa, they distribute roles according to which government, and when they are in the Government they shut up and when they lose, then they raise their voice and defend issues for this country. [[Applause]] Well, I think it's a real theater. The development of the state's radial project has always been continuous, governed by those who ruled, the People's Party or the Socialist Party, and none has substantially changed the course of politics. Let's see, does anyone think that the design of high speed, with the deadlines it has, is not done without a tacit agreement between the People's Party and the Socialist Party to get ahead of that project? The high speed summarizes and is the fifth essence of this project of what I was talking about, these two major strategies: the radial model, on the one hand, and the systematic boycott to what are coastal corridors or corridors that don't pass through Madrid. And there we have the high radial speed and the systematic dismantling of pathways like Fever, of pathways like Vigo-Barcelona — which does not pass through Madrid, of course — or Vigo-O Porto; the systematic dismantling of everything that is not that radial model. And that's not done if there's no agreement between the big parties. Besides, in recent decades, what has the People's Party done? He's been ruling in Moncloa for seven years. Well, while he was governing, he invested all the money from the European Atlantic corridor in the connection between Madrid and Lisbon; he also spent the European funds from the Atlantic corridor in reforming the Atocha station; the People's Party also invested the European funds from the Atlantic corridor in reforming the Chamartín station. Because I don't know if for the People's Party the Atlantic corridor doesn't mean it's going through the Atlantic, but it means how to get the Atlantic to the capital. These are the things to make Madrid that capital against nature, and its evases. In all the time that Rajoy has been you went to the procession of the little ones. A few years ago, when Rajoy was in Moncloa, I still held a meeting with the European Transport Commissioner, where we took all the data of the importance of the connection between Vigo and Porto, and the European Commissioner said that, putting the data on the table, it was incomprehensible not to defend that line. What's more, from a liberal point of view — and that's why he said before the project of radial Spain is that the liberal project — what was the main proposal to exploit by a private company a railway infrastructure? The Atlantic corridor, because by number of passengers it's the most profitable, but the "Spain project" is above. The project presented by the Spanish Government to the European Transport Commissioner was not going through. And the Commissioner said to me: it's logical, it's obvious, but the Spanish state is not putting this proposal on the table -- and that was when the People's Party was ruling -- The Socialist Party more than that, they let the project of the southern exit die in its moment and they continue in the Moncloa consciously forgetting the Atlantic corridor. We will continue to defend this Atlantic coastal corridor always, in all areas and whatever position we are in. Mrs. Egerique spoke of the Mediterranean, of the prevalence of the Mediterranean corridor. Well, when the first proposal of the corridors began, the proposal was radial to the entire state. What is the difference between the northwest and the Mediterranean? That in the Mediterranean they went politically together to give an answer. What did the People's Party do here? Swim up. That is the main problem we have in this country. And the situation, in addition, is that we've been dragging budgets that never run; there's always previous studies that are planned and never concluded. In fact, the last previous information study has just expired, and therefore we have to restart the whole process with a new information study. And in addition to the question added that, at the moment, in order to comply with European Union legislation as regards hydrological studies, we need to be done within a time limit of three years. That already puts us — if everything goes well — in 2024 for the beginning of the works. Therefore, if we want to reach the 2030 time horizon, as it stands for Portugal, the whole process should be launched as soon as possible. As I say, what we wanted here today was to present a position as a country, and that means that each of the groups in this House is committed to exercising the power that the Greeks and the Greeks gave him to get ahead of this project. This doesn't mean to turn this theme into a competitive pim pam pom...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u218	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u219	... signifies that we open a far-reaching debate of partisan interests, stop theatricalization and mark a joint position. First, let the Central Government abandon the centralist roadmap and assume the political infrastructure agenda for Galicia, which we're going to decide on from here. All progress, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, is important, but we want to see facts, because we are full of studies that are not executed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u220	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u221	... - I'm done, that's the last one. And secondly, let the Greek Government exploit the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks and demand that the Central Government be negotiated, that it exercise the power it has. You have the skills to request the execution of this infrastructure. The amendment is fine, but we think it's more useful to advertise than to talk about specific facts...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u222	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u223	...and the specific actions the Government will do.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u224	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u225	Anyway, we'll study it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-11-10-DSPG011.u226	Well, at the end of the agenda today, we'll suspend the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning.
