ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u1	Good morning, let us resume the meeting with the sixth item on the agenda, which corresponds to questions for the president's oral response. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Gonzalo Caballero Míguez, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the rectification of educational management after the failure of the Government of Galicia at the beginning of the school.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u2	Mr. Knight has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, in Article 31 of the Statute for the Autonomy of Galicia, which is fully within the competence of the Autonomous Community, the regulation and the administration of education throughout its scope, levels and degrees, modalities and specialties. And the fact is that Galicia is deeply concerned about the problems of starting school and failing to manage by the self-government. As of today, September 23rd, they start high school classes, bachelor's and vocational training, after the Government had to rectify its own intentions continuously in view of its inability and failure by its approaches. What have you done, Mr Feijóo, for six months to organize the start of the school course? Where were those responsible for education? After six months of pandemic and an inclusive summer, you haven't done your job, and you've generated a deep concern, confusion and a lack of organization in the educational community. For weeks they denied reality to the community, parents and mothers, despised dialogue and consensus and then had to improvise. Its management was continuous improvisation at the start of the school. On 10 September, the president of the board said that the course was being started with total normality. The work had not been done to seek extraordinary professors, extraordinary recruitment, which made possible the funds of the covid, as other communities have done over that time — for example, Castile-A Mancha, who planned this organization with the same funds in Galicia for 2,000 more teachers. They haven't made a map of the educational spaces. They didn't prevent free masks from being organized and provided for the student. They did not put forward a plan of specific educational needs reinforced for students with more difficulties. On September 10, you said that the course started normally, but there was a rejection and a total plant. You received the letter from dozens of senior high school directors who told you that the course couldn't start, and that's why they had to speed it up. And that's why there are now 150,000 students starting between today, tomorrow and past their activity, with a situation in which Galicia's case is a case without parallel in the mismanagement of the start of the school course, only comparable to what the Community of Madrid has done. Galicia has been in the queue of forecasts, of the organization. While in Valencia in July it was already talking about protocols with different scenarios and new recruitment was planned, as well as the scenario of agreements with the educational community was also fought, there was no management here. You, Mr. Feijóo, abandoned the educational community. You haven't done your job to reinforce a course which is especially complex. Things are complex, but when nothing is done or right, then things are much more complicated. We ask you to rectify all your failure to manage throughout these six months for the start of the school course, to go alongside parents and mothers, the educational community, to apologize for the mistakes and to contribute to a new scenario that allows the greatest possible guarantees for students and the educational community in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u4	Thank you, Mr. Knight. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Knight, at the last control session, before the election, you asked me about the alleged failure of the board in health management. Now I'm asked again about the failure of the board in the educational field. I think your group knows a lot more about failure than this majority group. But, in any case, if you want to talk about failures without looking at yourself, I have no drawback in explaining the great difficulties that are going on in all autonomous communities at the beginning of the school course. Indeed, we have competence in educational matters, within the basis of which the General Administration of the State says. That says the Spanish Statute and Constitution together. I think it's brave to talk about failure at the start of the school course. Not only is it bold but it is unfair. Starting a school course always has difficulties, but starting a school course in the middle of the pandemic has no background in the entire history of Spain. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, since 10 September, there have been more than 250,000 people, among schoolchildren, teachers, non-teaching staff and general service staff, who are teaching primary and child-care classes normally and with approximately 160 infected — which means 0.06 % of the total — saying that this course has started unaccurately, and when it turns out, ladies, that we have these percentages in the epidemiological field and when of the total number of people infected in Galicia only 3.7 % affects the education system, it is something — I insist — unfair. To say that we have not done anything, when in July we presented the first protocol — the first protocol of Spain — when we had since May, by asking the Central Government to establish a single protocol for the Spanish educational system as a whole and we have not achieved it until August 27th — we were the first autonomous community that has transferred that single protocol from the State to the territorial field, and on September 16th we have amended that protocol with the proposals of the clinical committee — when we have made a commitment to more than 40,000 teachers to know their epidemiological status and when we are currently hiring more than 2,000 teachers, saying that this is all a failure, Mr. Knight, in all respects, is indeed a lack of respect to teachers, to health professionals and to the educational community. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, there are autonomous communities of the Socialist Party that have not yet begun the school course, and here there have been elections and change of government. And now we're asked to do things differently. Were certain issues to be amended and corrected? No doubt. Do I take those changes and corrections? You too. But to teach the Socialist Party about the start of the school course, it's always a sarcasm. Mr. Knight, look, we will remain responsible and loyal to the central government, even though the Socialist Party in Galicia is neither responsible nor loyal to the educational community. And that's why tomorrow we're going to approve another proposal, which is a contingency plan for non-presental, or semi-presenceal education, with more computers, with more training and more means.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u7	Mr. Knight, today the course begins, just as you said, in high school, in vocational training and bachelor's degree, and we're going to continue working as we did in childhood and primary. And that's why, Mr. Caballero, you have very little confidence in the education system. We have absolute confidence in Galicia's educational system. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u8	Thank you, President. Mr. Caballero's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u9	Mr Feijóo, we have full confidence in the education system and the educational community, but the educational community does not trust this Government and this Education Council. That's why you received dozens of letters from directors of centers who said they weren't doing it right. And when, despite the fact that parents and mothers in Galicia are very concerned about the start of school, you answer that you are very calm because you have won some elections and that is their success, their success is not the success of a country that is concerned. That plan, Mr. Feijóo, is wrong. Because the July protocol was a wrong protocol and that's why he had to change it from top to bottom, and that's why he didn't do his homework while other communities did it. That's why we don't know what you've spent the 93 million euros that at the bottom of the vault reached Galicia for education. And by the way, it's good that we always think about changing the criteria. You also agree with your counterpart in the Madrid Community if you want to change those education criteria, that we will work for the best criteria for Galicia when it is now distributed, depending on the number of students in the country as a whole, in each community. Don't go on throwing balloons and assume your problem. How come there wasn't a crisis? You've raised different numbers of teachers. At first they said that he was going to hire 200 more teachers, then they said 800, now 1,800 — that they're not in class yet and that there wasn't at the beginning. They fired directors at the centres, there was a abandonment of the possibilities to guarantee the municipalities the cleaning of the centres they are claiming. There is a lack of consensus with the educational community. They did not hire teachers with diligence, as was done in other communities that did prevent the start of the school course. So, Mr. Feijóo, there was a replacement at the Education Council, which you motivated because you know you failed in your education policy, and you also set up an expert committee this week, when the school course had to start, to try to put small remedies for your failure to manage. Their solutions were mamparas and freedom for the centers and semi-presence, and for that semi-presitivity, where is a digitisation plan that guarantees all pupils in Galicia a computer and a possibility of having internet connection for this course. There has also not been any significant progress in six months of pandemic education, there are still areas like Vigo that remain without school lunches, with the problem that involves this for conciliation, and there is no answer because their answer is to match. The Government of Spain has granted 93 million euros extra to the autonomous community of Galicia for this start of the course, how many million euros have you put into the budgets of the Galician Union that are your competence in education...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u10	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u11	...to complement the needs of a school starter? Where was that commitment to teaching? Mr. Feijóo, we have all confidence in the educational community, I am a member of that educational community, but with all confidence and in that community, the community knows that it was alone, that it was abandoned, that there was not an Education Council that had done its homework next to that community. And that's why we ask you to take the mistakes you made and face the future with a new style of dialogue, consensus and cooperation with parents, mothers and the educational community...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u12	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u13	...who are asking you to bet on a quality public education for everyone and everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u14	Thank you, Mr. Knight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u15	And more at this start of the school course, public and free education for everyone...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u16	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u17	...I work from the Galician Union to save a situation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u18	Thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u19	...uncomplex. Thank you very much, Mr. Feijó. [[Applause]] Close this question. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Knight, you were talking about elections, not me. Now, if you think the elections were a personal success of the President of the Galician Union, then the elections are wrong, then the elections are a democratic will expressed in the polls of the people of Galicia. It's not a success for anyone, it's what the Greeks wanted and that's why they voted for the Greeks. And that's why when you speak of failure in the first question, Mr. Knight, the failure I think is not in these benches. And that's why I'm telling you with full responsibility that if we were able to listen to you today, we would be on an election campaign in September. It was your proposal, Mr. Knight. [[Murmurs.]] Making the elections at the moment of greater irresponsibility that could be made. [[Murmurs.]] You didn't care about the school course, you didn't have a president, you didn't have a government, you didn't have a parliament in September. Because all he cared about was just to scare people out of voting in July. That's why it's surprising, Your Honor, that you're here to talk about failure. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Knight, I answer to the Greeks in all the decisions I make and, of course, in which I am wrong; but what I do not receive is that you come here to talk to me about loyalty and failure. You guys made a proposal. I have here a proposal from the Socialist Party of Galicia, all right, you know when you made the proposal, the next day that the Government of Spain had presented the protocol to start the school course. Do you think this is preparing for the school course, Mr. Caballero? [[Laughter]] Preparing the school course is making a proposal on August 27th? Look, we have since May all the autonomous presidents asking for a protocol for the start of the school course, and the Government of Spain, with 22 ministries, proposes August 27. Do you know what was easy? What you've done, suspend all classes for every month since March. That was the easy thing, the hard thing was to start a school course in the middle of the pandemic; and that's what the People's Party did, to start a school course in the middle of the pandemic. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] You speak of the COVID funds, Mr. Knight. But do you really come here to defend the COVID funds that moved you to Galicia? When it turns out that we have 10% of school lunches in Spain and every 5 euros in school transport in Spain 1 are spent in Galicia, and all this is worth zero from the point of the Socialist Party's funding. Mr. Knight, you took us EUR 36 million to start school, EUR 36 million less than we belong to school population, food and transport. And despite that, we're hiring 2,000 teachers, you know what it's like to hire 2,000 teachers, but the current expenses that it is, but the compensation for agreed schools? 96 million euros on payroll only. And tell me we don't invest in education? It's going to be the school course with more teachers in history and probably less school hours. We were already the autonomous community with more teachers per student and now we're going up one more point. Therefore, Mr Caballero, I would like to ask you a little bit of respect, firstly, about the concept of failure; secondly, about the concept of responsibility.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u21	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u22	The question I ask you since absolute humility is whether you're going to continue with this opposition proposal or you're going to rectify from July 12th; I see you're not, in the first instance not. You were fired talking about health failure and it turns out that the Government of Spain says one of the autonomous communities that managed the pandemic better is Galicia. And now it starts with school failure and it turns out that there are autonomous socialist communities that have not yet begun and there have been no elections or change of government. Is there any socialist community that has done what you propose here? None! None, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u23	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u24	So, look, we...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u25	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u26	Please, if you want to pick up what the unions say in Valencia or in Castile-A Mancha, here are the cuts. But since you don't even have time to see them, I won't have time to teach them. But there's no problem, Mr. Knight, look, we're 11 advisors, can we make mistakes? Of course. We're half the one with the government. That a Government in Spain who disagreed with the pandemic, who disagreed with the start of the school course, who disagreed with the problems that the autonomous communities have in full pandemic, come their representative in Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u27	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u28	...to talk about the school course is just a joke. You know what, Mr. Knight? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I have a lot more confidence in teachers than in you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u29	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u30	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u31	Thank you, President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Pontón Mondelo, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the readiness of the President of Galicia to a real dialogue to achieve a great deal of country agreement allowing Galicia to rise at an exceptional moment
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u32	Question by Mrs Ana Pontón Mondelo, spokesperson for the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u33	Well, good morning. We are living in an exceptional situation that requires foresight, anticipation and a response to the challenge we face both from a health, social and economic point of view. Prediction and anticipation are always a government's obligations, but they're indispensable at a time when we're living a pandemic. And it was normal for no government to be prepared in March, which is not normal for six months after improvisation to remain the mark of its Government. Improvisation in managing senior residences and instead of acknowledging errors what it does is vetoing an investigation commission. Yesterday he was portrayed as defending everyone's interests. Improvisation in trackers, improvisation at course start. And I want to thank the educational community, the professor and the souls, who are in their work begging for their government's incompetence. And it would be good if instead of listening to the Valencia trade unions so much, I had listened to what the unions in Galicia say. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] And we cannot afford, Mr Feijóo, that this improvisation is also installed in the field of economic reactivation because we are playing the future of Galicia, the future of the citizenship of this country. That's why we want to offer you today from BNG to negotiate a country position on a key issue, financing Galicia's economic reactivation. Because, look, in order to reactivation we need resources, we need powerful public investment and we can't allow Galicia to be discriminated against or receive less than its own. And that country commission must now be articulated in two sources of funding which are being negotiated right now: firstly, it is the State's budgets, and secondly, that European COVID fund of EUR 140 billion. Galicia can't stand in front of two issues that are key at a time when each euro counts and in a dire situation, with very serious consequences for our business fabric, employment, wages and many economic sectors of the country. What we cannot repeat again, and less in the midst of this crisis, are the cuts. We've had enough of the cut of 442 million euros to fire Rajoy from Moncloa, or the cut of 750 million euros that had prepared us PSOE and We can in those broken budgets. Nor can we allow the sharing of the European funds of the centralism of Madrid to take over the part of the lion and that Galicia is left with its crumbs because that is what we already live in other negotiations in the European Union, and so it was with this country. And to avoid it the best option is that we have a country position, that we come to an agreement here and that we commit ourselves to defending in all forums and institutions the same, to defending the same in Madrid, that's what makes us strong in a negotiation with the state. Mr Feijó, you have the opportunity to demonstrate this and also to show us that it would not be a lighthouse with that offer of dialogue and consensus which you have expressed in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, you speak of improvisation and I don't know how many things at the beginning of the school course, I think I've already responded to the Secretary of the Socialist Party. What is true, Your Honor, is that you talk about commitment to Galicia but what BNG does is to encourage a strike at the start of the school before you even know the acting protocol in the classrooms. That's defending the country, isn't it? Take a strike before you know even the protocol agreed in Madrid and put here and adjusted to Galicia, you pose and encourage a strike. Of course, most teachers didn't listen to him. You're talking about trackers, ignoring what primary care personnel do, what preventive medicine personnel do in hospitals, what the teams of the four local health offices do, what the contact tracking center does. Thousands of people are working and tracking, and that's why Galicia's epidemiological data at the moment we're the second autonomous community with the lowest occupancy in beds and the second autonomous community with the lowest occupation in ICU. And you come here simply to throw away the work that thousands of people are doing all these weeks, and all these months. And you're talking about the fact that I don't know about the residency commission, but yesterday it became clear, aren't we going to set up a reactivation commission? Let's talk about what we want to talk about. But if you refused to do an investigation commission, not what happened in the residences, but how many dead were in Spain! And the only member of the BNG in the Congress of Deputies voted in favour of the Socialist Party and of Podemos simply saying that we cannot even investigate the number of deceased in Spain. And he comes here talking about what we have to do an investigation into the residences, all the people he wants, without any doubt. Look, we know exactly how many died in the residences. We know that at present 1.1% of the 25,000 residents are infected — or 1.1% —. That's why, Mrs. Pontón, if you really are interested in the country, you should protect it, not criticize it, and not constantly viticate it. Tell me if we were willing to have a real dialogue. The answer is very simple: yes! But not only am I willing, but I am convinced that it is necessary. And that's why we start social dialogue with the unions today when we get out of this plenary session. And that's why we agreed last week to set up a reactivation committee by agreement of the parliamentary groups. And that's why I will repeat by letter my commitment to begin this commission. I hope and hope that the BNG will come to that commission seriously and not come to the committee like, for example, its position in the Bureau of the Demographic Pact, rising from it; or in the Health Committee — which you have proposed and we have accepted — and they have lifted from it. Or, Your Honor, recently in the Investment Debate suggesting that I take the old-fashioned BNG proposals in front of a pandemic such as a public bank, an electric fee, an economic concert... you'll understand, Mrs. Pontón, that if I catch this, I'm betraying most of Galician voters. Therefore, Your Honor, we want dialogue, undoubtedly, and productive as well; and we are willing to speak to you of whatever is necessary. What we ask of you, Mrs. Pontón, is that the BNG with one hand initiate the dialogue and with the other hand summons strikes indiscriminately because that is not dialogue, Your Honor, that is cheating.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u36	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u37	And Parliament won't be fooled... Dialogue, Your Honor. That's cheating.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u38	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u39	And Parliament won't be deceived. If you want dialogue, there will be dialogue. If you want to wake up, there might be a deal. What's not reasonable is that you talk about dialogue here and on the street of strike. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u40	Thank you, President. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u41	Mr. Feijóo, what we can't see is how the same paper is repeated mimetically here. He comes here to make opposition from the opposition and he keeps trying to hide behind the professionals who are doing a job as soon as we recognize him. Every time you criticize yourself, your government's inability, what it can't be to try to discredit and attack the professionals in the education system, for example how you're doing it right now. I think I'm absolutely dishonest that when there's a teacher who's face-to-face, working on leaving the skin to get the situation out of your centers, you come here to attack them, it's of course absolutely dishonest, Mr. Feijóo, dishonest. [[Applause]] That can't be your presentation letter. Because what I would have to do is apologize precisely to the health professionals, to the professionals in the education system and to the parents and mothers for their improvisation and their continuing bandages. What have you been doing for these six months, Mr. Feijóo? What was he doing instead of starting school with all guarantees? How can you follow the tracker lie that there are 6,000 trackers in this country? It's false, Mr. Feijóo. And what we're worried about is that Galicia has the worst data in finding the outbreaks of infection, and that's what should worry a responsible president who isn't unique and exclusively installed in propaganda in the middle of a pandemic. Look, we talked to you about two topics that are going to be crucial for the future of economic reactivation, because there will be no economic reactivation without resources. And he didn't even mention them. You don't seem to be interested in talking about such an important matter and what we're playing on is the financing of reactivation. You're going to support the interests of Madrid's centralism represented in Ayuso that already told us that Madrid had to be privileged, or would you like to conform to a country position so that we don't repeat the history that has already happened to us and that we already know what consequences and is a broken Galician? We offer you a hand to work for Galicia. Stop opposing the opposition and really lead the country because we are at a time when Galicia needs a president and not a president submitted to the interests of Casado and Madrid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u42	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón. Close the question, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u43	It is not believed, Mrs. Pontón, that I come here to miss you with regard to the educational professionals, no. I come here to defend them. Yes, yes. [[Murmurs.]] You pose your ideology in the classrooms, in the ANPAS, in the teaching places, we don't. We've come here to defend that before we start a school we're all going to work. In a country with a pandemic, the BNG lords encourage a strike before they even know the health protocols to open the classrooms. That's the chronicle of what happened in Galicia. And it's unfortunate, Mrs. Pontón. It's unfortunate that you don't even put yourself around health institutions and teachers to see how we can work together. And that's already at the beginning of his legislation: a strike in teaching. Percentage of participation: 12%. But there you go, keep going. Or that they consider tracers in Galicia a disaster. But like a disaster? If we have the best epidemiological data in Spain along with Asturias and Valencia. How can we be a disaster when it turns out that we have control of the pandemic within the difficulties of controlling a situation like this, far above the rest of Spain? Look, Mrs. Pontón, in Spain the number of infected per day, for every day is twice as many as we have in Galicia since the pandemic began. But how can you come here to talk about the trackers not doing their job? But what irresponsibility is this? How can I accept as President of Galicia the deterioration that you continue to insist on public health even in the full pandemic? I won't take it, Mrs. Pontón. Because if I had accepted it, I wouldn't have been president of the board, nor would I have been a good German. And so, Mrs. Pontón, let's not look the other way. [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón, look at you talking about Madrid's centralism and criticizing the Socialist Party and the Podemos with which you rule in all institutions. But what's this cynicism? Are we really going to start the legislation now criticizing even its partners? But, Mrs. Pontón, you were quiet when it was taken out of the educational field by 36 million euros, corresponding to us by population, transport and dining rooms. The Greek nationalism is silenced. And she was quiet when in the health field they again made the accounts of the great captain, indeed, to favour Madrid and Catalonia, and the Greek nationalism silent. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's why, Mrs. Pontón, yes. [[Applause]] So, Mrs. Pontón, look at the opposition in Galicia will have more possibilities than ever to make a constructive opposition. They're the ones who have to choose the way. The way for most of the Greeks is to go together, or the way they've been doing for the past 11 years. And the Board has a hand held, no doubt, I'd tell you both won't be that with one hand we talk to the BNG and with the other hand the BNG summons strikes in all the productive sectors. We have to decide, Mrs. Pontón. We're about to make a deal with you, you who are about to deal with most of Galicia or to say that they agree and simultaneously create conflicts. Mrs. Pontón, I ask you to have with Galicia the tenth of the generosity you have with the Government of Spain. They told him that yes to the investment session, they said they were going to get wonderful things: increasing the budget in the country, lowering the AP-9 fees, transferring the AP-9... but, Mrs. Pontón, is this your presentation card? If you have...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u44	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u45	...the tenth part of the generosity with Galicia that they have with the Government of the Socialist Party and of Podemos, has no doubt that we can wake up. Now, if you in Madrid say one thing and in Galicia the opposite, most of the Greeks will continue to take note. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u46	Thank you, President. We're still on the agenda. There's a change now on the agenda, as you know, a question is now being asked to the government. And I explain, above all for the new Members, in questions to the government, as in the other, there is a certain flexibility here that we are much more rigid over time. It's 3 minutes, 3 minutes, 2 minutes, 2 minutes. No, no, there's not here, I say, because this has traditionally been like this, there's no margin in this. I'm 3 minutes short, and the questions are, you know, more or less. Then we started. Question by Juan Carlos Rivera and Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the forecasts of the Government of Greece regarding the establishment of some kind of direct aid for self-employed persons and pemes that enable them to cope with the economic consequences of the crisis of cowardice-19
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u47	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u48	Yes, good morning to all, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Conde, first of all congratulate you on your appointment as Vice President-second of the Galician Council, you continue in addition to the board, so you already know the data... Yes, you can sit... yes, come on, come on. I hope you'll cut my time, Mr. Counselor isn't here. Oh, you're busy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u49	Time's up, huh!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u50	Well, nothing, I was heading towards him to the stage.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u51	No, but you're asking the question, you'll answer it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u52	Yes, but I'll have to ask the advisor's question...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u53	But I'm sorry, but I'm going to ask you to answer another member of the government.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u54	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u55	He's just gonna answer another member of the government, he's not Mr. Count.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u56	Oh, it's okay.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u57	You know the government can answer any questions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u58	It's okay. That's right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u59	I'll tell you a little bit about that time. Come on, please. Excuse me, eh!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u60	We also congratulate Mr Conde on his appointment as the second vice-president of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u61	You're sorry. Perfect.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u62	The economic data concerning Galicia I will not repeat them, are on the initiative, is an absolutely dramatic situation that is currently being experienced, with a significant fall in all the economic data that mainly affect self-employment and, essentially, on pemes, on small and medium-sized enterprises. And within this area logically there are sectors of very affected activity, especially what it has to do with leisure, what it has to do with self-employed street vendors, what it has to do with culture, what it has to do with hospitality. Finally, in Galicia there are 203,000 self-employed, 20 percent of the employment rate and 197,000 of which 50 percent more or less have no employees. This gives rise to the importance of self-employed people and pemes in Galicia's productive fabric and in job creation. In view of this dramatic situation, massive and broad intervention by public authorities is required, with liquidity injection, with public money injection into the economy. So did the state government with more than 300 million euros a month in payrolls in Galicia in the last five months to 85,000 self-employed and 270,000 workers in ERTE. It's an effort that the municipalities have also made, some of the important dimensions in cities and some of the smaller ones. Some autonomous communities in the Spanish state also made an effort to provide direct assistance to the self-employed and the pemes. The question is: Since Mr. Feijóo also spoke now that the State Government has disagreed with the education system in Galicia, I ask the respective advisor if the Autonomous Community of Galicia, the Galician Union has disagreed or not with the autonomous and pemes since he has not established any direct aid to them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u63	Thank you, Mr. Francisco Rivera. Answer the Employment and Equality Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u64	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. Well, I'd like to begin the first intervention in this House as an advisor by greeting all of your lordships and thanking the question raised by the government, to apologize to the vice president according to which he now has a conference with the government of the state and so I answered. The government thinks it's solidarity and we can answer your lordship's questions so that we can complement each other. Well, the question as I say thank you since the government, is more than right, of great interest not only to members of this House, but also to a question of interest to the entire Greek community. I'll try to answer as clearly as possible. First of all, I want to convey my sincerest consideration to all the workers and workers in Galicia. Since June we have worked hard to improve their working conditions in a context as complex as the current one. The crisis resulting from the copper-19 pandemic actually has some still unknown considerations and dimensions. That's why we've been ahead of her since the Greek Government, and before we knew her specificities, we've already had a plan on the table. Since the beginning of this crisis we have tried to put some order into the existing uncertainty and we have managed to be pioneers and examples in many of the actions carried out over these months, but we must bear in mind that in many respects it is the central government that must shed light. Even so, I move them that the Union is aware that both autonomous and small and medium-sized enterprises are one of the groups most affected by the consequences of this crisis, and we also know that they constitute a fundamental part of the Greek economy and employment, whose resilience is worthy of admiration. And I'm saying this because earlier the adverse conditions that caused the pandemic were able to increase their number. We speak of more than 1,200 new self-governing and self-governing only during the months of July and August in Galicia. In the Galician Union from the very first moment, we have taken measures, as it said to them, to make the self-employed available the liquidity necessary to cope with their expenses. It is more we offer them and we will continue to do the necessary support to facilitate their recovery through the Economic Reactivation Plan approved at the June 5th Council and through the new employment agenda in Galicia. And for an idea to be made, I'll tell you that the measures already envisaged for 2020, the ordinary measures for self-employed had an investment of EUR 24.5 million to which the new aid lines amounted to EUR 97.5 million for self-employed people. That is to say, the Galician Union has made available to the autonomous and autonomous communities of our community about one hundred and twenty-seven million euros through the following lines of action: the 2020 self-government package -- the 24.5 million euros I'm telling you about -- the autonomous cheque We follow forward, which were and are sixteen million euros; the Reactive Trade, Tourism and Services Plan, 16 million euros...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u65	Thank you, Counselor, your time is up. He's got another shift later. Thank you. [[Applause]] Replica, Mr. Francisco Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u66	Yes, thank you. I didn't know you were going to answer the question, I thought I was going to answer the Economic Counsellor. Anyway, thank you. Let's see, you talk about a plan. This plan has already been explained to us in the Committee on Economics last week, and it is a plan that is not financially supported and therefore has no basis for any kind of execution today. Even in that commission we were talking about an aid to self-employed people of one hundred ninety-seven million euros, and we asked whether those one hundred ninety-seven million euros were actually recorded, because if they are recorded in the budget it is the right time to use them. We understand that the situation of self-employed people, the situation of pemes — the fundamental basis of the productive fabric of this country — is clearly at risk. And it's time that the public authorities, as the state has done, as the councils have done — that they have no competence in the field of economic promotion and they are making it available for their budget and modifying it — help small businesses and keep employment in those areas, and it's time for the Council to do so, as are the rest of the autonomous communities in the whole state. What happens is that the role holds out everything, Counselor, and this plan of three billion I think it's a plan more than the Galician Union has announced in this country and that they never run. The Union has sufficient budgetary capacity to respond to the needs of self-employed people right now. We in the initiative tell you that it is possible to modify budget allocations, that it is possible to use European funds more widely, that it is possible to use the contingency fund. Finally, that is possible, and that the Union has budgetary capacity to respond to a problem that is very serious at the moment and that if it is not addressed, it will be even more so for autonomous and pemes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u67	Thank you, Mr. Francisco Rivera. Close this question, Employment and Equality advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u68	Thank you, President. You're talking about Junta's ability to move money between games, he talks about the background of continence. I just want to remember that firstly, the competences on passive employment policies are from the state. Secondly, that the money is currently in the state and the definition of the economic sectors concerned I believe it is a competition and an obligation on the part of the State. Out of all the funds you're talking about, Galicia has now received the exact amount of 268 million for health care and 93 million for education. We still do not know — and I hope that at the sectoral conference on 30 September we will have more information — that will happen with the final funds, which will pass with the funds covered in the promotion of employment and in particular with regard to me, self-employment, and with regard to the maintenance of peas. You say we haven't done anything, we don't restructure European funds. I have just told you about measures, among others, from the autonomous check, for example, that I assumed the use of the European Social Fund, which was already within the autonomous community. We have done things with the funds that are in the autonomous community but — I repeat — there are funds in the state that have not reached the autonomous community. We, the German Government, equip our plan with specific and priority measures for the autonomous collective. We're going to benefit more than fifty-five thousand self-sufficient and self-sufficient. The context in which this legislation begins is not easy, but I want to send a message to all the workers and workers in Galicia, whether employed or not. The future seems complex, but there is a future. A future in which, I repeat, more than €3 billion will be invested in the public and private sector with the plan for reactivation and dynamisation, in order to cope with the economic shock of the pandemic, in order to give viability to the reactivation measures of the economy and in order to accelerate economic transformation. And together with this and complementing this, the new employment schedule. I end my intervention, not before, but by repeating my concern — I insist — for the uncertainty with which this situation is being dealt with by the State Government, for improvisation and vacillation. Concern about a future where autonomous communities seem to be being relegated. We hope — I repeat — that they will be rectified at the sectoral conference on Thursday, September 30th, and that, once and for all, they will provide valid and realistic solutions. Because it is certainly necessary to hold hands and collaborate in the face of the crisis by avoiding obstacles that prevent us from pushing the economy, adapting our workers to a new environment and facing the changes that are taking place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u69	Thank you, Counselor. Let's go back to the third point, which is appearances. Mr First Vice-President's appearance and chairlor Justice and Tourism, on his own request, to report on the general forecasts and lines of action of his department
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u70	To begin this meeting, the Vice-President, Prime Minister, Justice and Tourism, Mr. Alfonso Rueda Valenzuela, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I do indeed share, and I have the honour to do so by starting — as the President has just said — the round of appearances, all of his own request, that the Councillors and Councillors of the Government of Galicia will do to explain the general lines of action, each in the sphere of our competences, and then also that the President of the Board has already made the general statement on which these lines will be in the investment debate. This is the fourth time I've been assigned as a member of the Government to make this appearance at the very beginning of the legislation. It is undoubtedly the most atypical appearance and also undoubtedly — always difficult times, all sound — a particularly difficult moment — I think we will all agree — and a sad moment because of many circumstances. Sad for those who died in the cowardly 19 pandemic, sad for their families. And so, from here on, I want to start this show by transferring the support and solidarity of the entire Greek Government to them, to the people who are in hospitals today fighting this pandemic and to those who fight the consequences of this disease. At the same time, I want to transfer solidarity and once again support from the Government of Greece to all the health personnel who have fought and who continue to fight against this pandemic in the Greek health centres and to all those personnel who continue to have a very important, even decisive, involvement in the fight against the pandemic. I say this because it continues from some political parties, questioning, for example, the fundamental intervention for us of state security forces and bodies and so many collectives that have been mentioned many times and probably never enough recognized. I want to do it again, start my appearance like this. From that point on I will structure this meeting to make sense to you and try to explain everything I want to do in time of what I have, in two fundamental aspects. One, in the sphere of competences which are my responsibility, explains how we intend to continue adapting and improving public services to this new situation, recovering all the work and everything that could not be done during the months of pandemic and being able to get out — that is our intention — with all this enhanced. And two, I'm going to explain how from the field of the competences of the first vice-presidency we intend to contribute to the reactivation of our economy in all sectors where we are working and especially in terms of tourism competition, which is also going to be fundamental right now. I want to do all this, ladies and gentlemen, of course, from the highest level of respect and from the perfect awareness of the obligation to report to this chamber, trying to collect all contributions and to make myself available to all Members and Members at the beginning of this meeting. Listening and talking -- at the end we say it many times, then we have to prove it with facts -- will be my intention since the beginning of this legislation. Having already come into this, in the first part I said, I would like to explain how we intend from the vice-presidentship first to adapt the public services that are of our competence to this new situation. I want to start with a fundamental public service. We say it many times: if justice works well, many other things work very well. And, therefore, justice, which has been affected like all basic services by the situation of the pandemic, is already in need and will need special support from here on. You know that during the pandemic the situation of the Administration of Justice was logically affected. It worked because it had to function as an essential service in everything that was necessary for the proper functioning of society — I insist on the fundamental role of justice in this respect — and for this it required the Board to exercise its powers. From the very first moment we provided the individual protective equipment that were necessary and the cleaning services that were also necessary to ensure that the legal activity that was being produced was not stopped. Today they are around seven hundred thousand euros invested in reinforcements of cleaning services in judicial buildings and around half a million euros in individual protective equipment. And then it covers everything: from masks to mamparas, hydroxyl and all that is needed in the day-to-day work of nearly 3,000 employees. For almost three months you know that essential services worked, those whose processing could not be stopped at any time. There was a follow-up commission, by the way, which I believe has already shown from the first day its usefulness, but much more now with months of perspective. It was driven by the President of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia and we all participated in it: the Galician Council — the same vice-presidency and the Council of Health — all the judicial and judicial operators: schools of lawyers and prosecutors, prosecutors, and all those who had something to contribute on a daily basis to a very complicated situation. When the alarm state passed, we kept working. We have also done so in close coordination — and I would like to highlight this — with the Ministry of Justice, which would approve plans jointly and in ongoing dialogue with the various autonomous communities. At the end of July 7, we approved a plan for the time after the alarm state, of which we are already in the first phase. It was decided that those judicial bodies, those jurisdictions that had to have more immediate support were the ones most affected by this situation: social justice and commercial justice, for the reasons that we all understand, and that it was necessary to also perform a special reinforcement action on twenty-six judges, also in staff and also in the staff whose management it corresponds to the Council of Galicia. We also proposed to create new judicial units and we agreed in common with the Joint Committee between the High Court of Justice of Galicia and Galicia that the new judges who believe themselves this year, once the Ministry of Justice gives green light to the creation, will, in any case, be judged by the social. I remind them that the Ministry of Justice gives them green light and costs them to the Galician Union, which can decide not to do so. We always decided to do it, and this year we'll do it, too. I have to tell you that today only the cost — certainly without any transfer from the state, because we agree with the Ministry, but then these agreements have to be covered exclusively by the Council of Galicia, despite the fact that they are the greatest costs directly derived from the situation of the pandemic — is supposed to be around a million euros in chapter I costs for staff reinforcement in these social and commercial trials that he told them. We believe that it is necessary to do so, it is inexcusable. Justice has to work and therefore the Union will make that effort — I insist — in coordination with all the judicial operators and in coordination with the Ministry of Justice, and we will continue to do so. And when the Ministry of Justice gives green light to the second part of this plan, circumstances that have not yet occurred -- the Ministry said that it would be done in the last quarter of this year, and that it would also be directly focused on the litigation-administrative judiciary, and that a lot of resources and activity are expected from all regulations and new situations throughout the world that have occurred during these months -- will also have to be reinforced in this jurisdiction, and there will be also the Council of Galicia. So in addition to the general plans we have for legislation, we believe that the immediate thing is to act, and act directly so that a service as essential as justice continues to do so without any problem. I also believe that all the effort he has made to the Galician Council these ten years with the Judicial Infrastructure Plan is now proving to be right, or even as necessary. If you hadn't done those judicial infrastructure works, you might be giving yourself space problems in many judges. Now we see that many solutions are being made, that we can locate the new needs and we can establish the new organizations because we have large, modern and suitable physical spaces to do so. That plan is practically finished. It remains only as a great work, apart from maintenance, that of course we will continue to do these four years as we have done in previous years, to finish the City of Justice of Vigo, which will end in the first part of next year. By the way, we will contact the Town Hall of Santiago to expand, in this legislation, if we come to an agreement on land, the necessary appropriations -- we always ask the Town Councils to expand the facilities that the Institute of Legal Medicine in Galicia has now, because we believe that the work they are doing, especially what they have to do, and the growth they are experiencing in recent years requires a more modern, broader infrastructure. And that's our intention: to execute it — I insist — in collaboration with the Town Hall of Santiago during this legislation, in addition to some other judicial building that will have to be done. But if we allow me, with respect to infrastructures, our priority is to finish this plan, in this last infrastructure, with a final investment much higher than originally planned. We've invested, in these ten years, more than twice -- almost triple! -- than it's invested in the previous 20 years, since the Galician Union has jurisdiction over justice. Let's finish it. And, of course, in those judicial parties -- very few already! -- that could require a consistent judicial infrastructure work and an important investment, we will consider it during the legislation. We will also, of course, continue with technological modernization: Plan Senda: EUR 50 million — I said soon — invested in technological modernization in recent years and in the Administration of Justice, which was well lacking. And I think, too, like infrastructure, maybe even more intensively, if you saw the correctness of these investments now that new technologies are so necessary for daily work and therefore also for work in the Justice Administration. Today, all judicial parties already have videoconferencing systems -- this doesn't happen in all autonomous communities; in Galicia, yes-- We'll continue to put in place the digital viewing rooms, and that's what really allows a fundamental and qualitative step forward on a face to a truly modern administration of justice. Today, there are 44 digital viewing rooms, and our intention is to complete, between the first and the second quarters, this implementation plan -- at least in its first phase -- and double this number -- nearly 90 digital viewing rooms in the first part of the year 2021. And we're putting in place a system to perform telematics. This is a claim that has already been made to us — and now with much more force, and we understand it perfectly — from the judiciary, where you can make views, you can hold views in an absolute digital format. So even if a virtual waiting room is set up where the magistrate who runs the trial may even say who has access, who doesn't. It's about modulating, ultimately, and designing the body, little by little, of this reality that has to be implemented consistently in the use of new technologies in the Administration of Justice. And we will also, and here we depend on the Ministry of Justice... of course, the Galician Agency of New Technologies has already made those proposals to introduce improvements, which are now more necessary than ever before, in the process management system -- both Minerva and Fortuny -- to facilitate, much more, electronic communication on all these systems, in order to be able to include the judicial procedure viewer, and in order to be able to do many things that, despite Minerva's ability to do, are still not implemented. Here — I insist — we are heavily dependent on the Ministry of Justice, as you know. And, too, we will strongly insist on the need to scan the entry door in all the courts, which are the registration and distribution offices. A sort of unique gateway to all the documentation will be established, which will also allow you to scan it and then follow the electronic court file. We've taken important steps since 2014, but we're going to insist a lot on the purge. It's fundamental; if we speak of modern justice, of modern buildings, of digitization of judicial proceedings, of expurging procedures, which have not been done, practically, in many years. And there are many places -- you've been talking about other autonomous communities and the territory of the ministry -- where the purge is still a task, a task, permanently postponed. In Galicia, no, since 2014; today, there are more than one million judicial records that were on paper and that were classified, whereas in relation to those who, for their value, for the reasons they were, had to be kept, so it was done. The vast majority have been destroyed following all protocols and with all authorisations. This releases a lot of space in the courts and, no doubt, opens the door to the implementation of electronic judicial records. And we're going to keep doing this purge plan during this legislate -- I think it's already in many places at cruise speed; but, no doubt, it will now catch up in many judicial parties. And, of course, I leave the most important part for the end: with the workers and workers of the Administration of Justice, in the part that corresponds to the Council of Galicia -- everything that is not lawyers, judges and prosecutors -- we're going to continue in dialogue, implementing improvements. This same year, there is already an endowment, and it has reached an agreement with the USO, UXT and Workers' Commissions to start implementing — this was a commitment derived from the agreements that closed the strike to professional careers — and there is already a budget this year. And in three years, we've been committed to implementing the professional career in the Administration of Justice, as has been done with the rest of the staff of the Galician Union. By giving them another data: it's almost four hundred more people who have joined the Justice Administration in Galicia since 2009. I'm talking about four hundred structural people in template. This is derived from the consolidated reinforcements, from the judicial bodies — many that have been opening up these years — and from the agreements to which they are coming with the unions. And to this we have to add, in addition, all the interim staff reinforcements that are circumstantial. And because we give him a lot of importance and take special care of his duties, we will continue in ongoing dialogue with the Galician Council of Law and with seven schools of lawyers. We've increased contributions. We know that they are never necessary, and we know that this is a figure and something that is subject to permanent review, but I believe that an important effort has been made, not only in quantities, but also in the reform of certain procedures that were not covered by the shift of duty and now, yes. We have increased the amounts provided to schools for the maintenance of shift systems; special aid, the special effort made this year in collaboration with schools, both lawyers and prosecutors, to advance the liquidations of the first quarter, even before they were finished, and immediately pay those of the second quarter; the special contribution that was made to the College of Prosecutors for a current cost aid for the expenses they were having during the pandemic... In short, I speak of everything that we believe is necessary for something so important, and so fundamental in a rule of law, as is the duty of office. We will also continue in the process of implementing and improving the victim's care offices, listening, especially here, to the Prosecutor's Office, which has a lot to offer, which has made corrections, and of course they are the ones who understand the most about this matter, and those corrections will be taken care of. And finally, we will continue to push mediation. Mediation is currently being implemented in all the cities of Greece, in judicial organs: in some judicial bodies, especially family bodies, in all the cities of Greece. We will continue to implement, pending those legislative amendments that are announced to us from the Ministry of Justice -- widely announced -- which never comes, which conditions what can be done. And always with a premise, that I often repeat to legal operators: the work of an administration as far as mediation has to be, above all, of impulse; but then it should be a procedure that had worked for itself. We firmly believe that it can contribute, without any doubt, to improving and agitating judicial proceedings, but this has to be a conviction not only of the Galician Union, but also of the rest of the legal operators. In any case, we will continue to support them, at least in this legislation. Turning aside, and speaking of another fundamental public service, I will now refer to the emergencies that were so important and so fundamental were during this time of pandemic. I always sound! We often say that sometimes we don't pay due attention to emergency judges until they are really necessary, and there we realize how important and fundamental it is to have well-trained, well-trained and well-motivated emergency services. We saw it -- I insist -- at a time as critical as the pandemic was, we followed it by seeing -- and here we also see -- humbly think it -- that these efforts, sometimes quiet, sometimes not so visible to public opinion, but yes effective, that came to the Council of Galicia and other administrations; in the end, they pay the price. Let's focus these years on spreading a new emergency map, with that fundamental intention that any galley, living where he lives, have a professional emergency service at a suitable distance to be treated as he deserves, as it is necessary for this assistance to be effective; let's focus on retraining the equipment, training the staff, and also on coordinating ourselves more and more with all administrations, because all administrations have emergency skills. I want to stop in coordination, because it will also be one of the things that will preside over our emergency work in this legislation. I believe that we have to close, during these four years, definitely — and all emergency professionals agree that it has to be like this — the final step to complete the emergency map, which is the comarcacalization of parks in big cities. We are in constant dialogue with Fegamp, permanently a quantity is stored in the local cooperation fund. But, for whatever reason, until now only in Ferrol was possible, and I think there are very advanced conversations to be able to do it in Ourense and in Santiago, at least. The willingness of the Coruña Parliament — at least so from its President — is very much in favour of this system, which has been shown to work where it is already implemented and which, I think, has the whole logic of the world to complete the extension of professional fire department services in all metropolitan areas of the seven cities of Greece. It is also necessary to definitely close the money order that took place in the model of provincial consortia. I believe that this is a model — worth redundancy — of collaboration between administrations: four Members and the Council of Galicia. I've been contributing co-financing for many years to a service that had not existed before and which is now revealed as fundamental. No one can now imagine that a fire station of nearly thirty firemen is missing throughout the entire Galician geography, in the comarca headers where they are installed; so this has to continue and must continue to evolve. The Council of Galicia — you know our position — did not oppose us. We set the conditions for the management system to be changed once it was already implemented. This is being driven by provincial deputies, but it is necessary for Members who have not yet done so to make a final decision on the deadlines for making this management model change, to remain homogenous in the four provinces. It is very advanced in the Coruña and Lugo, much less, today, in Pontevedra and Ourense. It is also true that Ourense's, from the beginning, has stated that it was not a matter... just as the Galician Union sets the same conditions for it to change, this was not something that was considered absolutely priority, to do immediately. Pontevedra said yes, but it is true that progress has not yet been made, and it was good to know what is the willingness to make a homogenous advance in a system to which — I insist — the Council of Galicia, if the conditions set by it are met, does not oppose. And it is also necessary, and we will immediately convene a follow-up commission to continue to redefine it -- because this is something that was out of date -- the GHG map, the supra-municipal emergency groups. This we already want to do as we have done so far, and I hope that we will continue to do so, as we have done so far in dialogue, and come to agreements with the Fegamp. We have to set up three new GHGs, relocate three others, and modify some municipal emergency service that is covering various municipalities. I insist: this is what we intend to do immediately so that it will be implanted during the coming year. We will continue to equip civil protection services — ladies and gentlemen, it is almost sixteen million euros that the Galician Union has invested in these ten years — to renew, and in many cases to provide for the first time, the way in which it deserves a volunteer who spends many hours in service to others -- they have to be well equipped. But here we ask them, especially the Members, to cooperate with us in the effort, 95% — and I am cut off — of the material of the groups of civil protection volunteers that exist in Galicia is material provided by the Council of Galicia, when emergency competition is also a municipal competition and of the MPs. So I come back and take this opportunity to say that the Council of Galicia will not give up on this legislation to continue doing this effort, but we believe for many reasons that must be a shared effort. We'll also continue to power the 112 Emergency Station at its location. I think it was a correct concentration that was made and was clearly seen during the pandemic the concentration of emergency services, both 061 and 112, in a single building with all the characteristics of physical amplitude and above all by technological cities that had not existed before. And it has come, I insist, this would give for a much longer debate but there is plenty of evidence that it was right to make this move, with all the inconveniences that we are aware that I have at first submitted. But once it's consolidated, what we have to do now is keep expanding it, technologically equipping it, following these integration processes. Continue to enhance the GALI, the specialized group that has the 112 Emergency Center to intervene in major disasters, advanced command stations, large tanks, flood equipment, for greens... All this has to be followed, is a costly but very effective material; and therefore we will continue to potentiate it, acquiring new material during this legislation. Finally, we will continue to consolidate the Galician Academy of Public Safety as a major public security training centre, not only in Galicia but, if I may, from all over the north-east of Spain. We managed after many years of dialogue to make that old aspiration of the municipalities, especially the police professionals, to centralize local police selection processes. Today, 70 percent of the municipalities in 6 out of 7 cities with local police have delegated this competition to the Galician Union. We've already produced selection processes, they're about to finish the first promotions, now comes another promotion that's going to be the largest in the history of the Local Police in Galicia. And so I think this is an achievement and an example of collaboration between the Galician Union and the municipalities. We will continue to insist on prevention plans. There are many prevention plans made, but they need to be continuously renewed, and there is also a need to establish risk plans and sectoral prevention plans in sectors where they have not yet existed. I put a very specific example in what we're working on; it's a sectoral plan of civil protection to meet the pilgrim, from the point of view of civil protection, in Jacob 2021, which we're finalizing and, of course, will be completed before the beginning of the Year of Jacob 2021. This plan is going to have a very important, very fundamental intervention, the Assistant Police Unit, the so-called Autonomic Police. Our intention is to create a specific police group to meet all the derived circumstances, of course, in coordination with the state's security forces and bodies, during the Xacobeo 2021: flow of visitors, security in shelters and roads, even a specific plan to control sexual violence or sexual harassment on the Way. All of this we want to do is through the Assistant Police Unit, with that commitment to continue to make reality what is a statement everyone has in mind: what to do the Way is safe. Of course, there's no such feeling, and there's no such feeling responding to a real circumstance that there's insecurity. Making the Way is safe, you have to keep it safe, and that's why you have to make plans to guarantee it. It will be very necessary to continue to insist — I expect the support of this House too — before the Ministry of the Interior that the team of the Police Unit will have to be completed. I have addressed the Minister of the Interior on two occasions since he took possession by manifesting this circumstance and telling him that it is very urgent to extend the office of the Autonomic Police, the Assistant Police Unit. Right now, of the 500 members who had to integrate, the situation today is that they're around 375. So there's a very important part of the template that's not covered, and we think it's because of the increase in the competences it's developing, especially what it's going to consider and why I've just exposed to the Holy Year. Completeing this template is very important because, in addition, it also downloads many tasks that, if not, have to be performed by other bodies and security forces of the state. Since then, I hope that apart from the good words, which I have to say that the Ministry of the Interior and the Minister of the Interior and his team have always spoken to me about this matter, let us turn from words to facts. In 2012 and 2013, when the economic situation was very complicated, there was the implementation of the vacancies that existed at that time, a number similar to what we have today, and we arrived at the 500 autonomic police. During these years it has been decreasing. It's time to be up to the circumstances again. I hope the Ministry of the Interior will do so and you can complete the autonomic police force again. And finally, in terms of the interior, of public services related to the competences within, we will bring to this House, during the first semester of the year next, after the adoption in the Government of the Board the Bill of Law of a new Game Law - which, for many reasons, is necessary: to address the responsible game, to address the new forms of play and to address all the problem that, we are aware, if it is producing in this issue - a law that has all the predictions that the obsolete law - it was many years old, even now in force - could not contemplate. In the matter of shows, we will continue to develop the Act of Shows adopted not long ago by this House, which would require a regulatory development that has already begun and that must follow, and much more now, adapted to the circumstances and everything we are seeing that happens related to shows and leisure in establishments open to the public during the pandemic. I want to make a special mention here at night's leisure, at the difficult situation they're going through right now. We are perfectly aware - because we have a fluent relationship with the representatives of nighttime leisure, those who we hear of their situation - that it is a tough situation and that therefore requires the effort of the whole world. Nightlife, by a decision taken by the Ministry of Health in coordination with the autonomous communities, is an activity especially affected by all these health circumstances and therefore also requires special attention. They are producing three weekly meetings to inform you of the evolution of the pandemic, the possibilities and the horizon, which, in the end, is what they are asking for; above all, they are asking for a horizon to know where this situation can take them and when it can start, with respect to their activity, to see a little light at the end of the tunnel. That's what we're talking about. They have understood from the outset - and of course, the Union has made it clear - that the health situation and health assurances are the first, but we also understand that this is a sector that requires special attention - and we are doing so - and also a special support - and we are considering it -. With regard to the local administration and the relations of this Vice-Presidentship Council with the councils, I must say, ladies and gentlemen, that the first thing I hope is that the loyal collaboration we had with the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provincials, above political colors - I think they are more suitable approaches, competency circumstances and meet the interests that each administration represents - has to go far beyond confrontations, maximalist positions and initial blocks. We had a great relationship with the components of the governing bodies of the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces in their previous stage and I hope it will continue to be so over these years. We are aware that we need to reformulate many of the traditional relations that the Galician Union is maintaining with the local administration, because we are also aware that situations and needs are very different, starting with economic needs. I am moving forward here that the Local Cooperation Fund, which is an important effort for the Galician Union, is a participation in the tributes of the Autonomous Community which is transferred unconditionally, which has a very high minimum, which is almost entirely guaranteed by law and which it will follow, and has to be negotiated and negotiated each year in continuous dialogue with the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provincials, identifying it, as we are already doing, in matters of emergency, in the fight against the oppression of the crown... well, in a series of concrete things, it has to be agreed on for that unconditional part and for those parties who decide to deal with it in a fundamental way. I think this is the way: dialogue, reaching agreements and then implementing them. It's all the opposite of what we're seeing -- by the way -- what's going on with the rest, with the failed decree and with the defeat in Congress. I think that things, if they are done without dialogue, if they don't understand that municipalism has a lot of sensitivity and that, therefore, we have to deal with them all, in the end, leads to the blocking situation that we're seeing with the rest. I don't know -- I honestly don't know if someone here knows -- how the remaining issues will end and the relationship of the Ministry of State Affairs with the municipalities of different political signs, but I, of course, forward here that the position of the Galician Council is totally different, and everything that has to do with the funds that are transferred from the Autonomous Community to the municipalities will be made in permanent dialogue to avoid blocking situations and undesirable situations that we are now seeing on this matter at the state level. We will therefore continue in ongoing dialogue with the Local Cooperation Fund and will continue to maintain from the Vice-Presidentship all the support lines that we have been publishing year after year and that year after year I believe a great acceptance by all the municipalities. I'm talking about the bottom to make small local infrastructures, apart from the Environmental Compensation Fund, which is meant, in competitive competition, to projects that present local entities and also from that fund to carry out activities for neighboring associations, which has been implemented for three years and that each year has a very large increase, a huge increase, in proportion to the previous year, in relation to requests, which means that it is well thought out and that it is a very necessary fund. At the same time, we will continue to develop all the agreements we have, which have been reached, in the Galician Local Cooperation Commission, and that is why I wanted to start my intervention in this direction. I hope that we can continue to promote them for the common interest and above political rivalries or external instructions. I am talking about everything that has been done in the field of prevention and combating gender-based violence, but I have also talked about the selection and training of local police personnel, everything that has to do with the problem — I believe that it is now partly, in an important part — about the coverage of national skills markets in the municipalities — that they could not have a professional and that was very necessary — of the Single Social Agenda, of the fight against climate change, of the management of fire protection strips, of cultural heritage, of electronic administration and transparency — it is also very important the collaboration we are maintaining in this way — and the promotion of investment attracting through the entrepreneurial councils. I do not stop now - for reasons of time - in the agreement, which I believe to be a reproduction, is a practical evidence, so that this coordination is served in the agreement that we have reached for the fight against the mint, which I assumed today that nearly 290 municipalities are in line with this agreement and that a need for many municipalities to be moved to the centre is centralized. Today, there are over 11,000 children of pregnant women who have been removed and over 25,000 have been warned, and I think this has been a good example of that coordination. All this - in the replica we will have occasion, if you think it appropriate, to deepen something more in all this - with regard to the services managed by the Vice-Presidentship and the guidance we want to give them in this legislation and especially in the current circumstances of fighting against the pandemic. The other part I was referring to in the first part of my speech is the economic reactivation and the contribution the Vice-President has to make first with regard to his competences and especially with regard to the competition for tourism, which is what I want to stop now. To contribute to economic reactivation, ladies and gentlemen, without any doubt, I appeal again, because I believe it is fundamental, to the collaboration and coordination that we have to have with the rest of the administrations. I'm already referring to the local administration, through the Galeg Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, and I want to make a little mention also of the coordination which is evident and which is essential also to the general administration of the State. Go ahead, in the institutional relations of the Galician Union we will continue to observe the principle of loyalty. We can have our different points of view, we actually have them, but what we're never going to do is interrupt the channels of dialogue, which are still fundamental. Without a dialogue channel it's impossible to reach any agreement and even it's impossible to show the legitimate divergences that can be had. We will therefore continue to insist that the conferences of presidents need to be standardised. It is true that they were made during the time of the pandemic and it is true that there was one -- I even attended, accompanying the president of the Union -- in Rioja, at the end of July, but it is also true that since then there had been no announcement of one in the field of education; since then it has not happened. So let's once again make it clear that there is no logic in the general administration of the state during the first few months of the pandemic and a withdrawal, just as overwhelming in my opinion, in circumstances that are still very difficult. So let us keep these ways of dialogue open and we understand that the Conference of Presidents has to be a normal channel for the highest level, that is, with agendas, planning and agreements, beyond programmatic statements or comments from the general situation, which is well known, but logically, and more at this time, much more is needed. That's the first. And I also announce that Galicia has its own bilateral path with the General Administration of the State. So we're going to demand bilateral meetings to deal with a lot of matters, but I think there are some fundamentals that are on the table and that they don't admit any more postponement. I'm talking about the amounts that continue to be owed to Galicia and that we often complain. It's just that it's no solution that doesn't want to talk about it and think that time will make Galician Union stop claiming what we are, which is all Germans and Greeks. So they continue to owe amounts to the Autonomous Community of Galicia, that is, to the Greeks and to the Greeks, by the state, and we want to talk about it when those amounts are going to be paid. Of course, the passage of time will not make the Union give up that claim, which is a pretension that goes in the general interest of this autonomous community and, therefore, we want a bilateral meeting or bilateral meetings that are necessary to discuss this issue and also to discuss the transfer of competences, starting with the transfer of the ownership of AP-9. It was a general consensus. It seems that some political group here had absolutely closed it, even if they gave some deadlines in the investment agreement, but those deadlines are surpassed and nothing is known. Since then, the Galician Union as an autonomous community and as legitimate representatives of all the Greeks and Greeks, we will also ask that we be informed, beyond the information we can provide -- that is none -- a political group that says it had this matter closed. Months have passed and nothing is closed. We would also like to know the real state and real forecasts of something so fundamental to Galicia, as it is, for example, the end already definitive - and most entering the year we are going to enter - of the works of the AVE. There are many issues that need to be dealt with bilaterally. We create perfectly and always support multilateral cooperation forums, but we also believe that there are issues that need to be dealt with in this way. We will also do a special fincapé — which is crucial — in the presence of Galicia in negotiations and institutions at European level. Here are a lot of open fronts that I think have to be taken care of, I think urgently, already in this first part of the legislation. I'm talking first of the negotiation of cohesion funds for the economic period that is already beginning - in fact, it's already formally begun; negotiation is not closed, but this is a very important matter that we have to leave sitting as soon as possible -. How will Galicia respond to cohesion funds in this new economic period? I remember that in the previous period, in 2014-2020, there was also a prediction of a very important loss of funds as fundamental to us as cohesion funds. I believe that we act intelligently, seeking alliances with other autonomous communities and other European territories that were under the same circumstances at the time. The Government of Spain, who finally has the last word and who has negotiating capacity, has also put on a very important hand -- what he had to do, on the other hand, to correspond to Galicia -- and at the end we got the merm that was practically minimal. And so we've seen a very important amount of cohesion funds. We find ourselves in the same situation again and have the same uncertainties again. You know that a short time ago, and this is the demonstration, that there are things that are above political colors, we have established an alliance with an autonomous community of those in Spain that is in a situation more similar to that in Galicia which is the Autonomous Community of Asturias, the two presidents have had a meeting to talk about this issue, they have spoken clearly and now it also corresponds to the Government of Spain, doing their part in Brussels and ensuring and there are mechanisms to do so, another thing is the political will and negotiating capacity and the strength that you have as a country and as a government, there are mechanisms to ensure that Galicia comes with funds that are essential, and therefore, we offer all the loyal collaboration of the Government of the Union of Galicia just as did the Government of Asturias to ensure that this fundamental objective is met. And besides, we're on time to do it. We will also insist very much on the need for autonomous communities and, therefore, Galicia to have an active participation, this has committed itself. It came out, that I was in front of the last president's conference, President Sánchez to give him a share of the autonomous communities the distribution of the funds that are going to come from the European Union, this is a commitment and therefore, we hope this commitment will be heeded, the truth is that today nothing went beyond that formal declaration to commit his word, at least so I saw him who did President Sánchez, but he is also and time to draw up budgets, to know what he is planning to do to materialize this public commitment. And finally, we'll also continue to struggle for the inclusion of the province of Lugo in the fair energy transition fund. And that [] in the province of Coruña we believe it's because of the circumstances in which we are right now must be all the areas of Galicia where it is necessary and the province of Lugo, no doubt if this inclusion is necessary. We will continue to insist on the relationship between a policy of self-external action, of course, coordinated by the Government of Spain which has exclusive competence, but autonomous communities can also do things about foreign policy. You know that there was a bill approved by the Council of the Union that came into this Parliament that went down with the call for election, and that will come back immediately to process it and if it is the case you approve it as a law and give Galicia the ability to maneuver itself into its external relations, I insist, in coordination with the Government of Spain, but taking advantage of all the advantages we have as a cross-border region, all the funds POCTEP, 130 million obtained in the economic period that is now over, so it told us the importance of telling us how the same level of cohesion funds will be guaranteed in this new period. Everything that has to do with that privileged situation, but it also poses problems that need to be solved with the North of Portugal and ultimately everything that has to do with our external action also with the [] for development. I believe that the collaboration that has been maintained for all these years with the Romanian NGOs that have demonstrated their professionalism and is seen at the level of execution nearly 100 percent of all the projects that have been assisted by competitive competition, which tells us that in the new cooperation plan that we want to adopt in the year 2021 we must continue to follow this line and we must continue to be aware that the small efforts made from here have a huge and very necessary multiplier effect in territories that need, they still need this help, and that they will soon take advantage of, thank and multiply the beneficial effects of many digits in relation to the small effort, I insist, compared to the results that can be done from here, and the Galician Union will continue to do so. There are autonomous communities that have greatly reduced their cooperation abroad, we have kept it at the most difficult times, and we want to continue to increase it in that commitment we have with the coordinator of [] always above the budgets of the Council of Galicia. That's our commitment, we've fulfilled it in very difficult times and we want to keep doing it in the next legislation. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, I leave to the end everything that has to do with tourism skills. Recently assumed by this vice-presidency with the awareness that I am a challenge but also a huge opportunity and much more at the moment. My intention is to continue to believe that the magnificent work that was being done by the previous responsible, by Román Rodríguez and adapt our circumstances, the new perspectives. The new circumstances are the moment we meet. Tourism in Galicia was offering some very hopeful figures that we had to be filled with pride. We're talking about evolution in recent years. Going up far above average, beating visitor records, tourists who chose Galicia as their vocation destination being those figures above 10% of GDP, 11% of employment in Galicia. Finally, I think things were doing well and forecasting, and so the sector said, with the changes and the changes, and with the errors that had to be corrected, the forecasts were quite optimistic. The pandemic situation has come, all these circumstances have come, and we all agree that tourism is undoubtedly one of the most affected sectors, and therefore one of the sectors that needs special attention and special support from the administrations, and of course also from the Galician meeting. We have done so, the [] approved the plan of reactivation of the tourism and cultural sector, nearly 60 million euros, 58, already invested in a large part and were dedicated because it was an immediate plan to solve situations at that time and now also, but at that moment especially urgent, situations that would allow to solve liquidity problems that were being given, problems of loss of employment and problems for a business fabric, often with many autonomy, with very small businessmen who were suffering from an unprecedented situation and a situation that made it very difficult for them, which was to be seen as the summer season that was around the corner, I'm talking about April when this plan was approved. We were clear from the beginning by talking to the sector that it was very important to consolidate evolution now, once it almost ended the summer season, it proved that this bet was right, to consolidate Galicia as a safe destination, with the current circumstances that are so complicated by mobility, so much are changing the ideas of many people, in making tourism. It was essential that Galicia be seen as a destination from that point of view with a situation that had been foreseen to be chosen by many people. I insist, in that concept of destination, that especially what tourism professionals insist on. The INE data about tourism just came out this very morning, so they're going to have to be analysed, but the data we have already told us that first the situation was very difficult and therefore it had a positive impact on what was expected but if it had produced this pandemic situation but it's true, too, compared to the set of national figures on tourism, it's figures that move to a certain level, and I say to a certain hope. Evolution is 22 points, almost a quarter more than the average of the rest of the communities. We've dropped 50% from forecast, the national average set, and a drop of more than 75%. We went to the fifth community with more tourists all over Spain. They opened not a hundred percent, but a very important figure, more than 85% of hotels during the summer season, and what's more important, and this is a figure that's always taken very seriously, hotel rates have always been stable, they didn't just go down less than 1% of the average, when in Spain, the average drop was more than 15%. So this means that Greek tourism is in a very complicated situation where in addition to certain tourism sectors they are especially affected, I'm talking about travel agencies, I'm talking about everything that has to do with Congress tourism, I'm talking about hotels that are most eminently urban, they are especially affected, but German tourism as a whole shows a greater capacity for resistance that we have to take advantage of and we have to take care of. And we also have to ask, the Galician Union has to do its part, and we will do it, but we also have to ask for the implications of all administrations, of the Members who have competences in tourism. Now, above all, to coordinate, we are all the same fate at the end, and therefore we are all interested in tourism in Galicia, each in the territorial sphere that is its competition, but at the end we are all looking for the same thing and we also want the state that has a lot of things to say in this matter to say them as well and tell them quickly that the sector is asking for it. There are several measures, ladies and gentlemen, which we have been demanding for months and of which we are not yet sure that they are going to be done, and they are the competences of the State, the State also logically interests you that there is tourism, and therefore they will be interested in tourism in Galicia which, as I say, in the autonomous communities are showing greater resistance in this area. So we need the ERTEs in the sector to expand as I call it to Holy Week and we need this certainty because the sector is also demanding to make their plans. It is also necessary, fundamentally, that at least temporarily and while this situation lasts, the VAT in tourism activity is reduced to 4%, we also need a tax policy to reduce the costs of tourism for those people who make tourism in this income of 2020 and we also consider it necessary, just as the Council of Galicia is doing to establish alternative measures. And we've already known the definitive suspension of any activity that developed the Insertion. So we believe that it is not acceptable, that it is said that there will be no voyages from the Insertion and that there is no alternative solution from the orbit of the State that tells tourist establishments something else, that the Insertion will not come and that therefore they have to cling to this situation. There must be alternatives, and there must be mechanisms that make the establishments at least one part that expected or had deposited legitimate hopes in the activity that developed the Insertion. And we also need, just as we're doing at the Galician Summit that special attention is paid to the hostel sector, to the housing sector especially damaged by the pandemic, I'm talking about nightlife, and, therefore, the autonomous communities of course we have to do things, but I remember again that the decision to close the nighttime is a decision that the Ministry of Health has put forward and therefore it cannot be that the central administration says that everything that has to do with the impact of this decision is the exclusive thing of the autonomous communities. I'm saying it because things like that, logically won't work. That, with regard to the immediate situation. As far as future forecasts are concerned, because we all agree that the sooner, the sooner, of course, it is our desire, it is our hope that everything will become normal, we hope that the sooner, and that the health horizon will allow us to return to a normal life, we expect the sooner. And we all know, we're convinced or at least I'm sure your lordships too is that when this is possible, people will, we'll want to travel back, want to reconnect and there must be Galicia positioned in a privileged way. In addition, taking advantage of all these months' experience, this time so difficult to consolidate itself definitively, in that brand of secure destiny and sustainable destiny that we are now beginning to consolidate. What do we have to do? I believe that a lot of things, by structuring them — and I will now end up Mr President — and in three fundamental respects: first, to move forward in that comprehensive and definitive articulation of the tourism sector in Greece. Now implement the reforms that have to be left for the future. Secondly, we continue to insist on this destabilization of what we have talked about so many times that it is now more necessary and more evident than ever before, that it must be implemented and that innovation also that is necessary in the tourism sector of Greece as a whole. And finally, — I leave this to the end — to push and also reformulate, because it will be necessary, the Xacobeo 2021 and have a longer perspective, but without giving up in any case, the singular, unique, and special opportunity that is supposed for Galicia the year that comes from this point of view. As far as the integral articulation of Greek tourism is concerned, we have a lot of action going on. This is in dialogue with the sector, and it also depends a lot on the evolution of the pandemic and therefore we're not going to do anything we don't agree with them that they're really affected by the first ones who know their needs. So, this, if I may, will also be object at the time of a specific appearance in this parliament. But in order to bring some of the measures we want to take forward, we have to draw up a strategic plan for sustainable tourism for Galicia, we have to say the horizon we want to give you, a four-year horizon, a longer horizon, and we want to hear from the sector as well. We must continue to regulate tourism parcels, just as we have done with tourist dwellings. Rural tourism needs to be regulated, much more so is asked by the sector. Active tourism, that is, all these ways, all these ways, these niches of emerging tourism that must be consolidated in Galicia already in a definitive and much more regulated way. We have to continue to enhance the enormous advantage that the image of Galicia has as a tourist destination abroad, much more now, that sure destination which I had previously referred to. Therefore, we will continue to insist and provide help to achieve these quality tourist certifications. Today we are the second autonomous community with more certifications and we have to try, because, no, now that's more important than ever, to be the first. Let us not give up this objective because it is so much as to say because now when these quality certifications are given, we will take very much account of the new circumstances that must be developed in tourism, from the health assurance point of view, and therefore, if we succeed, we continue to move forward, we will have taken a fundamental step. We'll continue to improve the accessibility of tourist facilities, the improvement. To that end, we will continue to sign agreements with institutions and municipalities that have monuments, which have places of special tourist interest and therefore need that support from the autonomous administration to further improve. We will continue to deepen in a [] that exists in Galicia and that still has many possibilities it is already a reference to the international level but it has to be much more though it is the Superior Centre of Hostalaria of Galicia with the new forecasts and the new advances that are being announced with the new projects that exist with the University of Santiago and with the new steps that must continue to consolidate definitively as the great centre of tourist formation of the Iberian peninsula. And, we will also insist very much on the digitization of Welsh tourism, which is a constantly evolving subject. If you've done a lot of things, I think you've been very advanced during the pandemic in this 60 million intervention plan -- as I mentioned earlier -- and you've made a very important effort to boost digitization, the so-called digital check, nearly 700 tourist companies have accessed it during the months of April and May. And what they were trying to do was make all the cost-effective implementations from the economic point of view that was necessary from the digital point of view to adapt to the pandemic situation. I'm talking about reservation platforms on the line, I'm talking about a series of circumstances that needed to be accelerated, which were already necessary before the pandemic but now become much more obvious. For example, in rural tourism, in energy tourism, to facilitate much more the entire online reservation system, to give it a complete tour and for as long as it takes congress tourism, too, in this digitalization plan. We don't have to give up on congresses, what we have to do is reinvent them and, therefore, the congresses now posed the traditional way with the presence of many congressmen, with great influx; that it was good, that it was very necessary and that, of course, we are positioning ourselves mostly in front of the 21st Jacob in a privileged position. If all this is now — and for now it is not possible — we will not give up being a destiny and a mark identifiable as a future destination of congresses. And, therefore, we promote new ways of continuing to do these congresses, I'm talking about the hub of mixed tourism and the tourism of meetings and incentives, congresses and fairs through digital systems. You know that in collaboration with the employer of the sector we have installed in the City of Culture, in the Gaiás, a dish to be able to make these congresses digitally so as not to give up doing everything else, not to allow the disconnection that is already taking place in other traditional congress tourism destinations. That when it's possible to do them again as they always did, it's probably very difficult to get it back again. So we don't want to lose that connection with the congress organizers, and we want them to keep doing it, even if now they have to do it differently and that other way is digital realization with that platform that's set up in Gaiás. We will continue to implement or deepen in new forms of tourism where Galicia has many opportunities. I'm talking about, for example, root tourism, and there are already a lot of Welsh and Welsh people on the outside of the second and third generation who want to continue coming to Galicia to meet her, to see the land of their parents or grandparents and therefore come here to do tourism. And so that's a market niche that we have to pick up so they can actually convert that desire to come to Galicia, to know the land they've heard so much about and to do tourism. Because we're often talking about people who have purchasing power and looking for quality tourism that we have to catch. We will continue to explore and enhance the enormous possibilities of health tourism, especially thermalism and especially thermalism in that leading position in which Ourense province has been placed. Health experts now agree that in times of pandemic and in times of exploring new forms of tourism everything that has to do with this and everything that has to do with it... I was recently at the inauguration, I had the honour of being at the inauguration of the Congress of Termatalia. Congress also organized digitally, but which could not have been celebrated and which I think is correct, was celebrated under that modality I referred to earlier. All of this has to be taken advantage of very much because we were very well positioned and we have to take advantage of it in the future. And with regard to destabilization, as important — as I said — we often talk about the need. This is not only an aspiration of Galicia, I believe that of all the autonomous communities that we continue to concentrate; in Spain as a traditional tourist destination it focuses mainly on the summer months of the year. Here we have many possibilities for, without giving up that special influx in those months that come throughout the year. That's why we need to take a lot of action from the sector and also from the administration. The tourist bonus, which today has figures on health and socio-health personnel that are highly appreciated by 20,000 potential applicants. We already have over 14,000 requests for the tourist bonus, and it is a way of destabilizing and giving activity to many establishments that, but — and more at this time — would not have it here in December, which is the deadline for supervision. And the Elixe Galicia Programme, to promote 4,500 stays to certain collectives, partly financially supported by the Galician Union, is another way. I would refer a little earlier to the need for the State to enable alternatives to the suppression of travel of the Imserso. Well, the Elixe Galicia Program is a good old age, a good path that we have marked from the Galician Union to initiatives like this one, and it would also help the tourism sector in Galicia very much, and would prevent this effort from being done today at the Galician Union. Just like the gastronomy autumns that just started, that is, everything that has to do with getting tourists to continue all year long with proper offers every month in which we want this influx to take place. And finally, what it has to do with Jacob. I already say we're in the process of reformulation, and therefore, I think this has to be the subject of a special appearance. Simply put them forward — what I have just said — firstly everyone understands that the forecasts that were made regarding Jacob — at least at this initial stage — logically have to be reformulated. Yesterday the president of the board spoke of this with the mayor of Santiago at the institutional meeting they had. Today, large agglomerations can be implanted, today the circumstances of mobility that pointed out that once again the record of the presence of pilgrims during the Holy Year would be struck. Let's not give up on all of this, so it's so important to insist on the need for prolongation of Xacobeo thinking that there will also have to be normal months when all this is possible, but while we have to adapt to the circumstances and not think that we have to take advantage of it. Even so, don't stay with your arms crossed, waiting for all this to happen, Jacob is still a great opportunity. The strategic plan of Xacobeo already indicated to us the way in which we had to go even when the pandemic was not present, which is spreading much more through all the municipalities of Galicia -- that's what we're going to do -- to do many more acts even if they're smaller but that involves much more local population, to deepen much more in the values and perception of contact with nature and open spaces and other types of tourism in which many people think when they speak spontaneously about the characteristics of the Way of Santiago and the Xacobeo. That's all we're going to take advantage of now, and so we're going to do it. The Xacobeo is still an engine, it's still a trampoline and it's still a Galician impulse platform that we're going to take advantage of. We haven't wasted time in these months, there was a plan of improvement and conditioning of all the roads that have already finished the last way of winter, so the roads are conditioned. It's been making a very important effort to build new shelters and to improve those that already existed. There is a plan now that we will also execute to improve others and to build others there where demand has shown these years that it has made it necessary. And we will continue in dialogue, of course, with the church and the Cathedral of Santiago to improve access, to improve everything that has to do with control systems for the influx and management of visitor flow. We'll do and we're already working with groups of sectoral contingency plan experts in itself if there were any circumstances related to the pandemic and to the pilgrims that are already coming right now, especially with the flu that is expected abroad to react quickly and with established protocols; we're already doing so but now we have time to protocol much more. And we will also collaborate much more, we are already doing so, with the associations of paths of Santiago, which are the ones who have experience — they have a knowledge, a [...] of all this that we have to take advantage of — to precisely deepen much more in what I told them earlier. And to imply, I think this is still a little pending subject and that we have to take advantage of these months of refounding the Way to achieve it. Involve absolutely all the municipalities by which the different paths of Santiago and also those by which they do not speak, but which in one way or another are affected in a beneficial way by this circumstance. In the end, the paths of Santiago pass through Galicia, irrespective of the specific municipalities that pass through. And the power, the opportunity, and the pride that I think we all have to feel for the Jacobobeo, and so that means, it's still intact, it's still free in spite of the circumstances. I think we have to have enough intelligence, and we are all involved in this because I say that different municipalities, different political forces that govern them, at the end we all agree that we have to be fast in adaptation during these months, and we have to be quick in preparing for that possible extension and when it all becomes normal again. And it's still a fundamental element, I say it's going to be the object of an appearance or many appearances and many special interventions, but I think this is a fundamental theme and a unique opportunity for Galicia that we're not going to take advantage of. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is what I meant in this audience, fundamental public services that have to adapt to the new circumstances, that have to come out empowered, that have to get back all the work that could not be done, and fundamental opportunities that must be taken advantage of. Galicia has many possibilities as a tourist destination, tourism was one of Galicia's economic recovery spots until the time of the pandemic, and it has to continue to be, and I have to follow much more when all this happens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u72	Thank you, Vice President. [[Pause.]] Round of parliamentary groups. [[Pause.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Orange.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u73	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by wishing Mr Rueda — as he did at the investment session Gonzalo Caballero concerning Mr Feijóo — all the success and success of the world because in these difficult times in which the most complicated legislation of democracy may be, his correctness will be essential to everyone's benefit. Good luck, success and success, Mr. Rueda. But allow me to use a piece of my first intervention in a plenary session of this Parliament to say that it's a real honor for me to be here talking to you about where so many people have been militating in Galician socialism. Or that, without military in socialism as many others, he agreed to be part of his lists, as we can mention to Carlos Casares, Benxamín Casal, or Ramon Piñeiro. It is highly indicative that all those people who represent the best tradition of Galeguist engagement and of Galician intellectuality would now be incorporated into that common house of progression that was and will be the PSdG. And it is an honor to be in a place full of symbols that are for me highly edifying, beginning with the glass that presides over us, with the permission of Mr. Santalices, and of which he was author Isaac Díaz Pardo; who militated in his youth years at the Unified Socialist Youths, and who was even on a list of my party. Son of a shot father, or, as the Pardo Díaz himself said, has been emboldened to defend a certain idea of Galicia for the franchise in which he has militated and of what he has been minister the founder of the party that today governs that Galicia. What a greater demonstration of reconciliation and harmony and of what Azaña said: "peace, mercy and forgiveness," than being presided over by the work of Díaz Pardo, the son of a victim of fierce and corrupt frankism. That glassware installed in the bipartisan government legislation is the work of a man who tirelessly took on the behalf of Galicia, who, starting from his history and his culture, has always tried to modernize it. And that together with Luis Seoane founded the Laboratorium of Forms, that native version of the German Bauhaus. Speaking of Bauhaus and agreeing, I want to highlight an article in which we are talking about recovering this simple cultural institution that published this weekend a corrigendum theory from the PP lords. And I say that in theory because in practice the PP is in the light of the civilized German conservatism, of Ursula von der Leyen, President of the European Commission. That he published, as I say, an article entitled "Let's change things," which is an invitation very easy to accept to overcome the serious crisis in which we find ourselves. Making the need for virtue and taking the opportunity to transform the economy and, by the way, all European society takes us into what some call or define as the third industrial revolution. And at the same time, confronting the climate emergency in which we live, that of which Barack Obama said a few years ago that constitutes the greatest threat to humanity and to which Mr. Feijó in his long investment speech made reference on one and only occasion; perhaps because he was still influenced by the climate negationism of his beloved cousin Mariano Rajoy. What sidereal distance between the ideas of Ursula von der Leyen and those of the lords and ladies of the People's Party? Because that call to change things on the part of the conservative President of the European Commission contrasts enormously with the immobility that you practice and that is what Mr Rueda's speech today shows. Because you don't manage, you let the time pass and the time you let go without doing anything is wasted time for Galicia, time spent for you, but time wasted for Galicia. And while the world moves Galicia tends to immobilize because you do what you do but never do anything about throwing balloons out. Mr. Rueda, you are the head of an autonomous administration that works on the basis of the division of competences between states, communities and municipalities, fruit of what was PSdEG's deputy in this House, Ceferino Díaz, reported in a book entitled in an enlightening manner The strenuous conquest of autonomy. It took a lot of effort to conquer Galician autonomy so you can learn to escape or abdicate it. [[Applause]] In some cases they have been doing so for 11 years, especially in economic and industrial policy matters. Because there was no such thing as an active economic and industrial policy, unless we understand how to let go of time or promise banks and logistics centers in Pemex that we've never heard of. But you've recently discovered two new things. The first thing that goes wrong or half wrong in Galicia is the central government's fault, by chance, since he's president of the same Pedro Sánchez, not before. On the other hand, all that goes half well is his merit. You have devised a sort of external enemy that would be the central government that would maintain a kind of Jewish-massonic conspiracy against Galicia, which you need not say exists only in the minds of its advertisers. The second discovery that you have made is that the fundamental core of the competences that have reached this community, most of the budget of the Galician Union health, education, social services, are actually since this pandemic began a problem, it is the responsibility of the state. Despite the fact that the Galician Autonomy Statute establishes with meridian clarity that are full competences of Galicia and that it has been exercising for decades, in this pandemic we discover that the fault of the problems of health and education and social policies in Galicia is of the state and that we have to ask the state to solve the problems exactly like the industrial problems of Galicia that have been lagging for decades. They also say a little less frequently that the problem of residences is the responsibility of the state despite the fact that the state has no capacity at all in that matter and despite the fact that you have competence and the obligation to organize the system of residences, to inspect and punish, which they do not do because they seem to care more than certain general empires continue to obtain enormous benefits in Galicia the cost of health and dignity of our seniors and paying their taxes in tax havens. I remember that single administration proposal made by Mr. Manuel Fraga in 1992 that was then linked to the federalism of execution. Well, managing as a hypothesis that, as Professor Blanco Valdés says, our autonomic system is a certain type of federal system, Mr Feijóo and you, Mr. Rueda, far beyond Mr. Fraga's contribution, will pass into the history of political thought because they are the promoters of a new current of administrative political thought that I allow myself to be baptized as an escape federalism. The federalism of escape that you have invented and practiced is to escape your own competences and abdicate your exercise by trying to convince everyone that it is actually other administrations like the Central Government or the municipalities that have the responsibilities. It's also about inviting people to do certain things but asking for those things to be paid by others, i.e., inviting the Galician Union but paying the central government or the municipalities, despite your handling an budget for Galicia that goes beyond that of the state and the municipalities of Galicia together. Mr. Rueda, you have the crucial responsibility to ensure the proper functioning of the Welsh Autonomic Administration, you cannot underestimate the extent of that responsibility. In the last 3 legislatures, your speeches are in this House plagued with references to the quality or efficiency of the administration. However, in these 11 years, no minimally significant and effective management control of the Greek Public Administration has been implemented, which today lacks real mechanisms to assess whether the policies it carries out are right or wrong, or whether they can be done differently or with more or less resources. So in the face of a scenario of a strong economic crisis and a shortage of public resources, I ask you, do you think you're putting in place some kind of management control mechanism in the field of public policies to ensure that they are much more resilient and efficient than we have before? If so, what is that mechanism going to be? Mr. Rueda, another of your skills is that of justice. I had the opportunity to listen to the Commission the other day as the Director General of Justice said that Galicia actually has no jurisdiction in the field of justice, which only has functions, transfers of functions, said. But you have, however, the programming and management of the personal and material media of the Administration of Justice, which is so much like saying that it is your primary jurisdiction for justice in Galicia. And despite the fact that you have been in power for 11 years, the situation of justice in Galicia has been the worst all that time, in which the time limit for processing proceedings has been increasing ever longer, the situation has worsened with the strike of two-year-old officials that lasted no less than 114 days, almost four months off; and that has been aggravated by the pandemic with regard to which you are not providing the necessary resources to deal with it. In the field of tourism, they announced a reactivation plan with 58 million. Given that tourism and culture together account for 13% of Galicia's GDP, that figure is clearly insufficient when the Union manages an budget of EUR 11,000 million, taking into account the impact of the pandemic on these sectors.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u74	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u75	To conclude, Mr President. Don't hesitate, Mr. Rueda, from our predisposition to dialogue in such a difficult and unpublished situation that we are going to face in this legislation and that it will require more than ever the height of your eyes on all over the world. As it will require you to do things substantially different from what you've done in the last 11 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u76	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Galego Nationalist Block, Mr Tabares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u77	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Professor, the first words, as it may be otherwise, but it will not be, the victims of the coward, their families and the workers and workers who proved to be essential during this pandemic. And I also wanted to remember a day like today to the victims and the families of the Angois accident. We have finished criminal investigation, but we cannot continue to play on the idea that criminal responsibility or civil responsibility, especially in the area of justice, is just as political responsibility, political responsibility should be clarified in this Parliament in similar forums. I'm on this way back to this atrium, the last time I was on the blue benches, there were another series of honest, committed and loyal people with this country. I think, since the government is solidarity, that it is solidarity with one another and that it is solidarity with the Greeks and the Greeks, but it transmits to it my best wishes and that these people who were here — I think — as an example of the conduct to follow and, of course, that they are lucky in their role that will be the luck of all of us. In any case, be sure you'll have a much more loyal and constructive opposition that they had those predecessors to whom I mean. That's right, there are things that have not changed in this House. [[Applause]] There was a gentleman, Mr. Fraga, today is his nephew. The truth is, if the relative instead of being collateral becomes ascendant, this would already look like the Ourense Provincial Deputy, where the posts go on-line from parents to children. [[Applause]] In any case, and as he has manifested himself here on repeated occasions believe me, Mr. Rueda, will have in us a loyal, dialogueative and purposeful opposition. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, in my speech personally coming from Ourense I missed any initiative on reactivation, not economic, democratic reactivation. And I initially when I had the idea of this possible appearance I was thinking of asking you one thing, now I have to ask you two. [[Applause]] One, make Parliament the centre of political activity, this cannot be an appendix to San Caetano; look here for the consensus and agreements that we within the ideological distance are willing and willing to offer and participate, for the benefit of the Greeks and the Greeks. And above all, they change those mantras and those arguments, at least after what happened in San Juan de Río. We have to give those arguments a review. I was saying in Commission 1st, I think that with little success — but one thing, I won't be intelligent, but I'm very stubborn — make a copper money order. Power by power is not objective, the goal cannot be power, the goal must be the well-being of the Greeks and the Greeks, the future of Galicia. And I'm telling you that coming from Ourense. In Ourense we have already repeated it in this plenary some time and again in the media. In May 2019 the president of the Union said that Mr. Pérez Jácome was going to be lethal to Ourense, he was going to be a lethal mayor to Ourense, May 2019. June 2019 he became mayor. Well, the Deputy was kept, made sure they wouldn't have another rival in the Greek elections. But what are we living for? A situation of paralysis one more year, a municipality with potentials, liquidity and a PXOM and many concessions for absolutely paralysed approval. You see a pandemic and the council of Ourense as a result of that lethal pact, the council of Ourense that you rule, or co-governed until a few days ago, nothing at all. No answer for the autonomous, no answer for the small trade, no answer for the social services, nothing at all. Look, and now break the government by facts--I'm sorry I wasn't a mate of his from the back row-- for a file they already knew when they invested in that mayor. They assume the responsibilities and, above all, now that the President of the Board, that the Council of Galicia which is a solidarity government, does not break negotiations with the council of Ourense. They do not harm the mayor, they do harm the oransansans and the orensas. They keep the conversation with Ourense, they keep the conversation with the orensans and the orensas, they don't punish us anymore. [[Applause]] Look, I would ask to finish on this that they rectify and since Baltar is a specialist in motions of censorship, although probably with other purposes and other means, they cause a change in the local government and that Ourense has the management he deserves or, at least, get out of this terrible paralysis. Look, then, about the management of the pandemic and collaboration, even though I'll mention it later. I believe that the evaluation has made you stop the health counsellor, cease the teaching advisor, and correct the entire Sergas dome. It's already a bit done. Then they left some sad photos, but also criticized for themselves. They left some very sad photos distributing material in poor condition and simply with a pre-election photo. Think about it and correct it, I think that's not what you can expect from the Government of Galician Union. But coming in and trying to go in the constructive tone I promised... I'm sorry. [[Interruptions.]] Yes, but I'm sorry, but I think I have an obligation to speak in the name of the orensansans and the orensas. [[Murmurs.]] Well, some at least. In the constructive tone of what I was talking about, I would ask you first, to have some ambition, in the reactivation of the mixed transfer commission at the time that they've been ruling, there's no transfer, and this is not a nationalist theme, that is because managing us will have more chances of correcting than others are asking, that decisions take them in other latitudes and other people totally away from this country. [[Applause]] And look, I was just talking about AP-9. Well, I honestly, always to talk about Néstor Rego of the only Member, look, if they really want the transfer of AP-9 at least don't bother. I don't ask you to cooperate anymore, but don't bother. And if the only hope of AP-9 for Galicia is Don Nestor Rego because they receive or collaborate with him, he will tell them what to do at every moment. [[Applause]] If what really matters is the transfer or just not putting your finger on the Government of Madrid. [[Interruptions.]] But there are other transfers, there are transfers in labour inspection, maritime rescue, transit and road safety. We don't have the same terrestrial infrastructure and we have half of the population nuclei as the Spanish State, because road safety in Galicia is probably different from that it can be in Extreme, not better or worse, different. So we need that transfer. Also in matters of administration of Justice. I see you won't give me time. You used to say that in recent years a lot of judicial bodies have been created, tell me which, since 2009, yes, if that's right. In any case, it's like I said, don't you think a competition in a judicial demarcation plan that we have to claim? Look, fifteen years ago, when I was around here, we called for number two the mixed trial number two in Sarria, and they're still claiming the union the same trial. Just as an example. But if we have the needs, we have the delays in the administration of Justice, we pay the minimum seven officials, we pay five, we pay the infrastructures, because we won't be able to decide which judgment they believe and where they are created? It's totally normal, because we don't claim that transfer. Look, I think I sincerely believe that, the administration of justice probably doesn't give a vote, the administration of justice I don't see you having a lot of interest, simply trying to influence those who administer justice, but how do you understand the designation of the vowels of the General Council of the Judiciary being paralyzed. Well, I don't even understand the naming system that can be camouflaged — with forgiveness for expression — that can be agreed between two political forces exclusively, I don't understand. And above all, why? Because that General Council of the Judiciary will appoint three magistrates to Chamber 2 of the Supreme Court, the Criminal Chamber, the room that will judge the appeals against Gürtell, the remedies against ERE and will probably start waiting for Kitchen. Look, because the Galician parliament cannot propose, too,—propose, the power of proposal, I do not ask you to amend the Constitution, the power of proposal, those vowels for the General Council of the Judiciary. Because not to participate in the appointment of members of the prosecutor's office who hit Galicia, because not, because it's not...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u78	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u79	... ambitious in that sense. And I'm very hung up for the second intervention. Look, I don't think the restructuring of the board is correct, or you're downgrading tourism, or you're underestimating justice. But in his intervention and surely he has a great concern about the subject, there was hardly a word about violence against the woman. It turns out you're in a council that will continue to be in justice, that even the People's Valedora in her report sends certain duties, very reasonable duties, and that separation of this area of equality, that, I understand, and I say it with respect, and the depreciation of the organizational dependence of the General Secretariat of Equality is not a correct statement and your speech is sent to me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u80	Thank you, Mr. Tabares. Thank you. Your time is up. He's got another thunder later. Thank you. [[Applause]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado Del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. I want my first words of my first intervention in this legislation to be of solidarity and affection to all families and loved ones of the victims of the Covid-19 pandemic. A disease that changed the way we relate, the way we educate, the way we work, the way we have fun, and even the way we say good-bye to our loved ones. But I resist letting this pandemic change also our way of feeling, and of showing our feelings. They are no longer among us but their memory will always be present, as are the people who are now suffering from the disease or even the sequelae of it. For all of them our love. I'm not going to answer Mr. Aranguena's myth because I'm just going to say it's a pity, it's a pity Mrs. Aranguena that today's socialists haven't learned anything from these socialists before you've seen speaking here, simply, you said it, there's a sidereal distance, there's really a sidereal distance, and your intervention is the perfect demonstration of it. I'm sorry, I'm sorry that you're a new Member and confused an appearance of the first Vice-Presidentship of Galicia with an investment speech, you spoke here at all, less than you saw the Vice-President of the Union speak. I hope in his second speech he tells us whether the Socialist Party of Galicia has something to say about justice, emergencies, interiors, tourism. You've had ten minutes here to talk about a lot of things, but nothing really matters to the Greeks and the Greeks, about solving people's problems, because here's what we've been talking about, about solving people's problems. I don't know if with your intervention you think you've contributed something, some solution to people's problems. [[Applause]] And Mr. Tabares and I already make a block for both of you, which you come here to try to teach lessons of loyalty and constructive spirit with the intervention you've had, but well, nothing happens, this too, I tell you, I understand that it will be your first intervention, as it is still with your mind in Ourense, but this is neither an appendix nor the deputy of Ourense nor the council of Ourense. This is the Galician Parliament and here we are talking about issues like how you saw the vice president speak if you care about justice, emergencies, internal issues, the police unit, tourism, the Xacobeo as an engine for economic recovery. If you have any proposals in that sense, I hope that in your second intervention you will talk about it. I understand, his comrades applauded him very much, they're in the middle of the honeymoon, but good they're the inheritors of the Podemos Tides, they have a lot of prodigy and care that don't make him an a[] 2012, just warn them but good, I'm glad they're on the honeymoon. Mr. Vice-President, I very much appreciate your presence and the information you have moved us to the parliamentary groups and the roadmap that will follow the Greek government in your department, which allows us to make reflections and approach, to some of them above all, to others so they have come to something else. The ideal thing would be that those approaches were positive and didn't come here to criticize everything, not from their area, unfortunately, they came to talk about other things, and it's quite surprising that there isn't a single measure that you just described, not one that applies to the opposition groups. You talked about more investments in judicial infrastructure, the new headquarters of the Imelga, the [] investment in technological modernization administration of justice, the approval of the professional career system of Galician justice personnel, the increase in pay on the job and the extra contribution made in the pandemic, the expansion of staff in victim care offices, the expansion of assumptions in mediation. You spoke about the emergence of more and better means and the map of emergencies, firefighters, civil protection, GHGs or even training at the galga security academy. And in the area of economic recovery, Mr Vice-President, he has this group to support the demand for government to maintain these cohesion funds before the European institutions. I hope that the opposition groups will have high targets and will be able to put Galicia above the partisan interests because we are aware of the value that European institutions give the demands that come from the territories reached by consensus of all political formations. Maybe they have something to say in their second intervention. In the wake of tourism, the plan for reactivation of the tourism and cultural sector is being launched. We applaud that recovery plan. We believe that tourism in Galicia must also be together with the Jacob who comes there in a few months a fundamental engine for economic reactivation. And it is surprising that we are talking here about the issues that are, that there are powers of the Union that are only demanding the central government because money and complaining and giving and blaming the central government. You've just given here a very important data, the police unit is currently 375 agents, when there are 500, 500 agents in need of Galicia. The only moment Galicia had all the agents of the police unit adscribed was in 2011, under that evil government of Mariano Rajoy Mr. Aranguena. Well, look, yeah. And what does Mr. Sánchez do about equipping Galician police unit with 100 percent? Yes, you say so, but this group also presented initiatives when it was the Government of Mariano Rajoy. We don't care who's running Madrid, you do, you do. Not to us, because we put the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks above the party interests. [[Applause]] You're nervous Mrs. Rodil, I understand that Mr. Tabares didn't represent you in his intervention but that we're going to do, you choose your voices, we don't choose them. Tell us, Mr. Vice-President, to continue supporting this demand to Madrid, it seems very interesting to us that new unit that you spoke about for prevention and control of sexual violence on the road. I hope that government so feminist that we have in Madrid because it also has this sensitivity and access to those requests that the vice president is making. Two letters said that Mr. Marlasca had sent him, let's hope that it doesn't have to be three or four, perhaps one of the feminists of that same group can also help push this issue in Madrid. In the field of justice, I referred here to the intervention of the Director General of Justice in the past commission, but nobody said that the Director General of Justice, what he said is that this first phase that the Government of Spain has approved for the reactivation of justice in Spain and Galicia in particular, has a first phase that goes from September to December, it's already been a month, it's already been a month, and said the Director General of Justice that it hasn't yet been given to Galicia a single euro, or one of the measures that have been established. There are three measures, look, creating new judges, State competence, Mr Aranguena. Mr Aranguena, Member of the Commission. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. And, the operation of a trial bis, that is an external reinforcement, the competence of the State, Mr. Aranguena. Since the Minister of Justice assumes that he will provide measures and means for the reactivation of justice, it would be good for all these measures to put them in place as soon as possible, because it is four months, he's already going there, to see if we don't have to wait much longer, if we don't have to be every day claiming that the Government of the State is doing its job, because I already tell him about zero euro ads pyrotechnia and zero-averages in progress. So we'll continue to claim, we haven't come here to defend Mr. Sánchez's measures if they're not good for Galicia, you do. No, and you supported him, you put him there, Mr. Presas, you put him and Mr. Vice President of Podemos. Look, but on July 12, the Greeks and the Greeks spoke loud and clear, although they spoke loud and clear and said they wanted representatives who represented Galicia, the Greeks and the Greeks, and defended their interests and not the party interests, and did not defend the indefensible of a Government that is constantly aggravating the Greeks and the Greeks. And you're defending him, they're defending that he doesn't contribute the 200 million VAT from the Greeks and the Greeks, that they're ours!, they're not from Mr. Sánchez or Mrs. Montero, not Mr. Aranguena, no. The 100 million that took out the money from the training for the unemployed. Do you agree that this money will take you to Mr. Sánchez? Whatever! They're from the Greeks. Do you agree that you don't give us EUR 36 million more for the COVID Education Plan? Do you agree? Do you agree that Galicia takes that money? They're all day defending Mr. Sánchez and Mr. Churches. Look, we, Mr Vice-President, want to collaborate, we want to turn our hands on the opposition — if possible — because you're talking about: no, we want consensus, we want to agree... and then they come here and talk about anything less than what the Vice-President actually said. You didn't make a single alternative proposal in the field of justice, a single alternative proposal in the field of emergencies, a single alternative proposal in the field of tourism, a single alternative proposal in the field of indoors. What are you guys talking about here? Of what? Tell me! And what you said, do you mind the Greeks and the Greeks, do you really think that solves their problems? Yeah? Well, then others have come before and now they're gone. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[Pause.]] Replica. First Vice-President and President's Adviser, Justice and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Arunguena, Mr. Tabares, well, first thank you for your good wishes because I'm also sure they're sincere, they wanted you to succeed and I wasn't mistaken. Well, I reaffirm here again my commitment that I said at the beginning of my appearance, just like in previous appearances at the beginning of each legislation. I'm going to come here to tell you what the government wants to do -- it's my duty, of course, to tell the House -- to tell the story here and listen to suggestions. So, if you want me to succeed, that desire is sincere, I insist, I'm sure it is. And the point is, I'm told what I thought, and I have to tell them honestly that neither of us did that. So it's very difficult to contribute even if it's from discrepancy. If I come here to talk about local administration, about emergencies, about justice, about economic recovery, about tourism, about reactivation, about institutional relations, and you talk about everything but that, one of you is not doing well. And I sincerely believe that they may agree with or not with what the Government wants to do, but that the task of coming here to say what we want to do, and theirs — I understand — are very free to say what you want, there if I talk about all this and you tell me things that have nothing to do — in my opinion — with very important aspects. And if you'd rather spend time talking about what they've been talking about, then you know, people are listening to us, and you see the importance that we give each and every one of us to the things that are going on. And you see what matters to the Government to deal with the things we have in our hands, which are the things of the Greeks and the Greeks who care about them and which is our obligation, and you see the importance that you give them. And I sincerely welcome the fact that here we all come to be honest, too. And, therefore, Mr. Aranguena, if you, after making an introduction -- I insist, very respectable, each one here comes to speak of what you think appropriate -- and to say what you said in your first appearance, everyone was listening. And in his first part of the intervention — which was the biggest — to end it by saying that he's at least wasting his time and does nothing because he doesn't exercise his powers, and doesn't spend a minute talking about the competences I've come to tell him here, he will understand that it's very difficult to answer him and have a parliamentary debate. I tell him honestly, and what if he does to me... I was pointing and making myself very difficult. I didn't come here to attack Mr. Pedro Sánchez, if I even recognized that in the part that affects me... the justice, the competences that you say we don't have, I didn't quite understand what he said. The Director General of Justice can assure you that he didn't say... because I also saw that appearance, I was seeing it in my office -- another thing is that you want to understand. How are we not going to have jurisdiction in justice? How are we not going to be worried about the part that affects us in that competition distribution. Another thing is that we'd like it to have changed, that it would be reformulated, that it can work better... but we've been exercising, man, for many years; and making an effort on investments much bigger than it was done in previous years because, again, if justice works well, everything else works well. So, of course we're working, and of course we want to continue to work with the Ministry of Justice. It is true — Mrs Prado said — that we are asking for money, because it is very good to reach agreements and that all economic obligations are for the autonomous communities. Which is what's going on in the plan to deal with the justice administration pandemic, but, well, we assume it because it can't stop. So I don't come here to attack anyone, so you don't feel obliged — as your leader always does, Mr. Knight — to think that all the parliamentary time you have is to defend Mr. Pedro Sánchez, when I'm not attacking him for anything. So let's all be useful in what we're doing. And don't tell me, you can't tell me -- and if you tell me, I can't understand it -- that you say now that we found out that the government during the pandemic... that you had to arrive at the pandemic to discover at the Galician Union -- or so we say -- that the government has a lot of competences. You know, in the state of alarm, all the powers were lifted, or what was the state of alarm but? It didn't consist... and, of course, we don't understand anything then. If the state of alarm when it was declared did not consist -- it would not be because Mr. Pedro Sánchez had not told us in all his appearances. That everything depended on the state -- that's what I told you, that I tried to transmit in my appearance -- for a while nothing outside the state, and when the state of alarm was lifted this would not go to nothing with the central government. And neither one thing nor the other one, therefore, don't tell me that we suddenly discovered that the competencies... man, he told us, and so he applied it and for that is the state of alarm. And what we ask for is that correlation, that institutional relationship, that we can talk about the things that matter to Galicia and each one in the sphere of their competences. But always talk! The co-governance you always repeat and then never exercise. So that's what they're doing here, and I think you said what you said you were going to answer to what I said -- I insist, with all due respect -- but it's really very difficult to establish a dialogue about competences when you don't talk about justice or talk about local administration... you didn't really talk about anything in your intervention! And if you think this is the way to try to get us all right at the end — you see us from our perspective — that's quite hard. So I'll keep talking about what I think is my obligation, and when you want to get into those subjects because you consider them more important than what you said now was much more important than the subjects I spoke about — at least what I understood — because then we can talk about all that. And, Mr. Tabares, exactly the same. You did come in, fortunately, and I'm a little relieved by answering something -- the truth is that in very few -- because there are also other matters that matter much more to you than what I've seen here expose as objectives of legislation. I also thank you for your kind words, for your good wishes. They're mutuals too, which you succeed in your opposition work. He told me — or I understand him, and I am sorry that I didn't understand it, if not, I am sorry that he had conveyed greetings to those who were sitting here when you were a Member; that, if I am not mistaken, it was at the time of the biparty. Well, they're not here because they lost the election, so we agree too. That's the first thing. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] The second, our perception — and also that of the people who voted in the 2009 elections — is that they weren't very well taken. I don't know if... I'll try to transmit to you, President Touriño once said, I don't know if he'll bring you good memories at that time or if that agreement that you were saying will wake up when I remind you when they were sitting here. And they were a bipartisan, two absolute governments. I transmit to you what you want, you were here, you lost the elections, you left; and now we're ruling ourselves, so I've seen here explain the things I want to do. So, of course, it's very difficult also when you've devoted all your time to talking about things that have nothing to do with the competences of this vice-presidency, and things that have nothing to do with the tourist sector that is going on so bad and hopes that among all of us we will succeed in reactivating it. With the nightlife sector, with the emergencies, with the justice, with the local administration... all that, like Mr. Orange, that's secondary, why are we going to waste our time talking about it in an appearance that is to mark the goals of government in that? Let's talk about other things and if you then give him some time to play some topic -- I appreciate it, so I told him to make it a little easier for me. He says, "Are you talking about creating judicial organs, how many and where?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh I suppose it was a lapse that, I suppose it was a lapse. Anyway, I'm going to leave the president here the list, 25, here detailed all, how many and where, here's the answer. I want to think that you knew it and that you had a lapse in asking that question and that you're not getting to know for me that in recent years when many autonomous communities were refusing to set up judicial bodies in Galicia's Union, you've created 25, but the magistrates' squares, but all the support, but 400 structural justice officials who accompanied the creation of these judicial bodies on the side of these bodies. I'm sure you all knew that and that in case I leave this to you here, because to understand this legislation — if you're going to be the voicer of these issues and therefore we're going to have to debate many times — it's good that you have this information; and all you don't have and you need to be able to contribute to it without any problems. I think this is fundamental and therefore I'm going to leave it to make life easier for both of us. And then, with regard to the creation of judicial bodies, man, why don't we have that competition? First, because in the Constitution justice is said to be an exclusive competition, then the distribution of material resources. And, in any case, I love to get that thing out because I don't know if you're aware that the Government that supports Madrid last year failed for the first time in history the request reached unanimously between the High Court of Justice and the Council of Galicia to create a Social Judge in Lugo, and he said no. And it's still to be explained, and I'm still waiting for your famous Congressman to say something to the private, quiet and not to say anything. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You had to do it again this year and therefore don't say anything, man, please! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And with respect to transfers, you say we're not intruding. Look, for nothing!, now, give us information. You have in the legislative pact that we are finishing in 2020, in the third quarter, you have to pass the bill to make the transfer. Well, I see they're beginning to retreat from what they've signed, we'll see if it's approved. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We have already begun to see that since Parliament's benches in Galicia are beginning to fade and perhaps that approval will not be complied with at the Congress of the bill to make the transfer. They're already warning us, Mr Bará. [[Murmurs.]] Well, seeing as we don't know anything, the three-quarters of the deadline are already going, and everything's still the same, I'm starting to hear that maybe they didn't tell them the truth. And that maybe things don't go the way you believe. [[Murmurs.]] All of this had to be advanced to finish before December 31st of this year with the passage in Congress of the bill for the transfer, that's what puts on its role. And, of course, you now have to begin to explain the inexplicable, that there is no one step forward, that took their hair — in my opinion — to them. And that's why I'm telling you that the Galician Union, which represents all the Galicians — including those who voted for the BNG — is going to try and ask for that transfer commission. And he's also asking for that bilaterality for urgent issues. Why don't they say anything when they see that we're discriminated against in the COVID funds? Why, when you see that we have a much lower percentage than we would be, what are you giving to other autonomous communities -- does the Government think that better care is needed than Galicia -- do they never raise their voice? Why did we demand all the autonomous communities — Galicia, which we led and said in my speech, I saw that Mr. Arangüena and Mr. Tabares gave them the same thing — that we would not remain silent and that the passage of time would not put a cloak of silence there, do you not say anything at all? Give us a hand in Congress too! [[Murmurs.]] If they're so strong they have to start talking about it and they have to start talking hard because it's a lot of money. If they want to talk about transfers and make strength for the things that interest Galicia, seriously in front of the Government of Madrid, and there we will agree; and otherwise it will be really difficult. And, look, I do not give up — and I will finish, Mr President, this round of speeches — trying to get something out of this crowd. For my part, to make it clear what's going on, I come here to debate him, if they don't want to debate him and want to talk about other things, missed opportunity. I say again that we have a lot of challenges ahead of us. May I hope that the relationships with the local administration continue to be flowing and to the part of party influences as they were in the past legislation I hope that we can continue to look at justice, and hope that the state will give us the money it promised us for those extra expenses we're having. I also hope that emergencies will have the final momentum in coordination with the administrations that really have the competences, which are the councils and above all the deputies, and that we will continue to dialogue as we have done all these years. I hope that these institutional relations go beyond political proclamations, and if they are being bullied in Madrid their deputy is asking for support from the Galician Union because we ultimately have the same interests. I know that sometimes the pride of believing that everything has been achieved can't lead them to think that whoever won the election for the fourth time has something to say representing the Greeks there too. [[Laughter]] But well, there you are, there you are because it's a pity, it's a pity because we'll finally see the results. [[Murmurs.]] And I insist very much that the challenge we face in tourism, 10% of GDP, 11% of employment in Galicia deserves more than absolute silence on its part. Not 10 seconds in your speeches, I'm telling you that it's the subject that they're most worried about that it's not clear, but that it's a subject that they don't care about at all when you centred half of my intervention is something that those who were watching us and have to do with tourism I hope they'll take note. I hope that when we come here to talk about the Jacobus that we have before us, I hope that when we ask for the collaboration of the whole world even if it is to give dissenting opinions, this time they do give importance to this subject, because they certainly have a lot to say. Look, the Galician Union wants to approve a strategic plan of the Jacobean decade. We have Jacobobeo 21 to 3 months in current circumstances, but we're going to have, we're going to have 2 more Jacobos this decade and, therefore, we're going to try to give you a long-term orientation, which isn't just isolated actions, which is not just thinking we have the 2021 chance, but there's going to be 2 Jacobos more before this decade is over. And so let's act with that perspective, act with that perspective and act together. When we present the strategy plan of the Jacobian decade, when we believe that all economic sectors have to have that perspective [...] to Galicia, I hope you devote something more to it than absolute silence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u84	Thank you, Vice President. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Special round of clarifications. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Aranguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u85	Thank you, Mr. President. Before anything seems like you can't skip, I understand that we're the beginning of legislation and that this is going to be mitigated, but it seems like you can't omit repeating repeatedly that the elections have won. Every time they say it, it seems like you're showing yourself to be absurdly happy, radiant, happy, even, anyone would say it's the only thing they're worried about having won the election and kept themselves at the Galician board for another 4 years. The one that's falling, that is, with the suffering that's suffering citizenship, society, with the problems that's going through the whole world absolutely everyone, with the problems that the administration of Greece also has, the officials, at last, and with what we have ahead of us, I think it's time to leave that favor behind, it's time to assume. We know that you can count, we are fully aware that you can add up, we are also fully aware that you have won the elections and we know what that implies. What doesn't imply is that they're right, what it means is that they have the obligation and responsibility and the legitimacy to govern, but not to say that because they won the elections, that gives you some kind of additional plus of reason because it's not. And autobomb and self-comprehensiveness — I know this is not an investment speech, but Mr Rueda is responsible for the coordination of the administration and therefore there are many general issues in which we can debate with him and we must debate with him — autobomb and self-comprehensiveness when the situation is not only dramatic because of the health effects on the human lives of the pandemic, but because of the economic forecasts and all kinds of things that this allows us to see on the horizon, the autobomb is certainly not the best starting point for dealing with this crisis. I've talked about justly before, what I've said is that there's a jam that despite all the statistical figures that you can twist, that jam has been rising for 11 years, and that jam obviously making it easier to solve that jam, to unravel, has not contributed to the 114-day strike of officials that if you correct me I may be wrong, but it seems to me that it's a record of Spain on the strike of officials. You may not think the same about the means and the good that they treat justice. By the way, for professional reasons I've been working in the field of justice for a long time, I've stepped on many judges and I know what the majority opinion of legal operators is. The majority opinion is that Junta is about justice because it's just a matter that you don't care about, and that's very good to try to remedy it. For that, of course, you have to have money, you have to put money on the table. This is not being done, it is not being done and even the Council of Galicia — it would say much more — it is failing to comply with the Royal Decree of 21/2020, of 9 June urgent measures of prevention, containment and coordination to deal with the health crisis, which establishes the obligation to take measures to prevent the massive coincidence of people, which is being repeatedly occurring in the courts, both workers and clients or users in the workplaces during the hourly slots of forecasting greater influx. This is not being resolved in the courts and it is their responsibility and competence to adopt measures for progressive re-integration in a face-to-face manner at the jobs and the empowerment of the use of telework. By the way, neither in justice nor in the field of public service in general. And we've already put forward some initiative in that sense that we expect to see how it evolves. When the nature of work is possible, I telework whenever possible. It's not being done. It also violates that set out in the Order of Justice 394/2020, with regard to collective protection measures for public attention, allowing access to judicial buildings without any control. Despite the above, the staff of justice are required to develop their work normally in a face-to-face manner. An improper irresponsibility of an administration that must ensure the care of citizens including officials. And I also ask you as head of coordination: will you put in place an objective and transparent mechanism as the socialist deputations do so that the funds that distribute the Galician board between the municipalities will stop fingering, casually or almost always to the same councils, for the benefit of the People's Party councils? Are you going to do it? I also ask you as head of coordination and as head of the board's administrative building: Is the replacement of the entire summit of the Board of Education, including counsellor, of the board's board of health, including counsellor, of the Chief Executive Officer of Majors, who is the head of residence, together with the head of the family in the Social Services Council? I mean, 2 advisors and 7 general directors in the three most directly involved advisors in the management of the pandemic? Is the recognition that your pandemic management has been manifestly improved? Do you consider this to be just a circumstance of chance that replaces all the tops of the sectors involved in the management of the pandemic? To finish, I spoke before predisposition to dialogue, I tell you now that it is not a purely rhetorical predisposition, but that we have demonstrated this predisposition in fact. Without going any further 2 years ago, when we reached an important agreement with you on the needs of forest policy, which was placed on 123 recommendations...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u86	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u87	...from which today it seems they don't remember. We continue to maintain that predisposition to dialogue. We're going to make a consensus effort, we expect that consensus effort to be receptive. In any case, we'll be there with a condition: that you leave the scaoze and inaction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u88	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Galego Nationalist Block, Mr Tabares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u89	Well, he didn't care much about democratic regeneration. After the elections and the 2009 election campaign, I'd expect anyone else to talk about it unless you do. [[Murmurs.]] Look, about the judicial units. Tell me about 25 in an indefinite period, I imagine it's 11 years old. For this year, look at the situation of justice, your nearest union demands 17. And it's not true, I don't know whether it's intentional or maliciously, but Lugo's social was the first time Madrid denied what we asked for here. No, no, usually Madrid, because competition is not ours, because the decision is not ours, Madrid is ours to decide. That's why I ask you to reverse that situation. After another thing, look, it's weird that a person who's spent so long in the Administration of Justice is running it. It's not the same profession as free justice, you confuse it. By the way, say about these 300 euros that offered the lawyers of the profession that, by the way, the lawyers of the profession and I was in the criminal profession [...] we are not on pay. Ourense's best criminalists, for example, because it's my school, they're on duty, for social commitment and for the right to defend all people, for a worthy defense. For commitment, for defense, for everyone's right to a worthy defense. That's why they're on their own. That's why the 300 euros to all the lawyers and lawyers who were on duty is not the solution to the problem, the problem is the autonomous, the problem is the lawyer as a whole, not the job. We're not even on duty on the payroll. For example, it is requested from schools that it recedes because they also have the right to the judicial prison service that there is well organized in Ourense and Pontevedra. And there's no pay, it's not on its own, it's not the same as free justice for pay. Then he talks about mediation. But let's actually see mediation, heterocomposition is a system to avoid that expected collapse. What measures did they take? Well, they deleted the mediation service at the family level. It's said that family conflicts will grow by 41% and you suppress it. What about the English language in the administration of justice? He's not talking. At least we're asking for a proposal to download the program in Minerva so that officials can work in English on the same conditions as in Spanish, which is not there. [[Applause]] On emergencies, an integral and multi-purpose public system and the direct and public management of 112. A new policy framework that had already been announced. The comarcallization of fire parks. The German police. To comply with the 2007 Act, not the Adscript Unit, a Greek body with its own competences that as Nestor Rego is getting transfers to Galicia that police will increase it in numbers and also in functions. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] And also with regard to the police, an old project that existed. Primise the preventive character on the repressive character. In fact, he has to pursue crimes, but he can also be a social agent to know the reality of neighborhoods, the reality... well, what they call proximity police. Go that way. With regard to external action. Well, external cooperation in the compromise of 0.7 per cent. No, we just told you, see if at the end of the legislation they come not to 0.1%, which would already be an advance, but to 0.5%. Well, there's no voice there, we want Galicia to have its own voice and be able to participate in those forums where we decide things that Galicia reaches, not subsidized to the Spanish State, not dependent on what she says in Madrid, that she has her own voice to defend her own interests and also a fairer world. As far as tourism is concerned, I don't understand, if it's so important that they mix it with justice, with presidency, with interior, with institutional relations, with everything. No, actually, it's a very important percentage of GDP, it's more than 130,000 jobs. Don't mix it up, give it your own space, or give it your own counsellorship or an important space in a councillorship. Tourism has to be a cross-sectional activity, it has to involve transport, territorial planning, urban planning, landscape, thermal... yes, man yes, they do something because in Ourense -- I know they don't like to talk about Ourense -- burned a spa and still nothing. I mean, there's not much thermal infrastructure development and that's the thermal capital. And that has to be done with planning and a new strategy of professionalized and quality tourism, with a tourism observatory in Galicia. Yes, that you can analyze this big data, all that data. Well, they create an observatory and an inspection body so that they can carry out or monitor the fulfilment of these objectives and the granting of grants they establish as does not establish the Deputy of Ourense, a single plan, the objective grants, in competitive competition, not those subsidies that give the impression that they are the finger, and that then the Parliament of Galicia can monitor the return of these investments of public resources, because they are investments of public resources. Collaborate with Fegamp, assume the local pact of 2006 that they have time, assume improper competences, subsidize or help out the overcosts that the pandemic is having in the municipalities...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u90	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u91	...from Galicia. Fegamp can't be the traffic. They have a capacity for dialogue and they have a capacity to reach consensus. And then one thing, I have to say to myself that if we can draw a lot of conclusions in this pandemic, it's that the provincial organization may not be the most suitable organization for our territory, that an organization that I don't know if in 1833 it was designed for this country, but that proved to be functional. Despite the fact that they don't care, democratic regeneration, despite the best of the tone excessively vehemently follow our hand in order to reach this forum which is Galician parliament the popular representation of Galicia that we could reach agreements. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u92	Thank you, Mr. Tabares. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado Del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Tabaretes, March 1, 2009, the Greeks and the Greeks decided to change that blue bench by other honest, loyal, committed people with Galicia. And speaking of homogeneity that you come here to talk about a homogeneous bipartisan government, that dishomogeneity is what led them to lose their elections on March 1, 2009. And so the Greeks continued to trust these blue benches of honest, loyal and committed people from Galicia in 2012, in 2016, in 2020. I know they don't like us talking about winning elections, Mr. Aranguena, I'm sorry, but it's just that you're constantly insulting the Greek people because they're practically saying that the Greeks are fools who don't know what they're voting for, because since this government is doing everything so bad and it's been doing fatal for eleven years, and we've got the very wrong people, I don't know if we should give them a pill that sleeps and then they vote in tandem. [[Applause]] Well, not Mr. Aarangana, the Greeks are smarter than you think, and that's why they don't agree with your defense, what the Government of Spain is doing, the scorn that Galicia constantly does. And you go on, you go on, defending the government of Sánchez, defending the scorns of Galicia that's going to go as bad as those who were there on that bench who just dropped and left the door. That's what happened, that's what happened in the polls. I'm sorry you don't like the election result, but that's what it is, and... no, it's not a bomber, man is not an auto bomber Mrs. Aranguena! It's reality. Mr. Tabares, it's a pity, it's a pity you're now saying that Junta is bothering your super MP in Madrid to get AP-9. There's no other talk in Galicia about the happiness of the Greeks and the Greeks who are already able to circulate for free by AP-9, thanks to the Galego Nationalist Block. And now it will turn out that the fault that doesn't happen will be from the People's Party, it will be from the Government of the Unity of Galicia and the People's Party that is bothering them, Mr. Tabares, incredible, incredible. Even that's what we're to blame for. [[Applause]] It's you, the truth is, quite, quite nice. Look, Mr. Aranguena, winning elections doesn't give us reason, I'm sure it doesn't, but it does impress on us a responsibility to provide solutions to the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks. And that's why I told you in my intervention that you had brought some. He had another chance to come here and bring a single solution, one solution, I'm not telling him anymore, you who saw him say here that he knows perfectly how the judges work, that he's there and so on, and he didn't provide a single alternative. No, no, oh! Money, money, it's all right. Money, the vice president, I don't know if he heard his first intervention, but he said he's got half a million euros and 710,000 euros just in these more pandemic months. We're waiting for the Government of Spain, too, because it has jurisdictions of a dozen more judges, because look, agility in justice also has something to do with more judges, because more judges, more possibilities to attend more matters, I don't know that's a rule of three, if there's a hundred cases and if there's three judges because man!, iran faster if there's four judges, I don't know, they're very simple accounts. What can't be that they're depriving us of having a social trial in Lugo last year. You don't say anything, absolutely nothing here or in Madrid. Now it is proposed by the Joint Committee again, the Vice-President has just said so. I hope that's a reality, not just Lugo's, others. Because look, they took Lugo's and Santiago's, what happens is that the mayor of Santiago who does not follow Mr. Sánchez's interests, but defends the interests of the saints, fought that trial, didn't do the same to the mayor of Lugo's, and so it is seen that Mr. Bugallo has more weight in the Socialist Party than Mrs. Lara Méndez, because the judge of Santiago's social court has indeed been a reality and that of Lugo's not. But you, all of you here shut up while Sánchez aggravates Galicia you are silent and giving him the support that for him to continue to be president and come here saying that they have a super MP who can manage I don't know what and we don't disturb them. Well, there you are, there you are. We believe, Mr. Vice-President, that it is essential that this collaboration that you were talking about with the general government of the state, that money, it is true, it takes money to do things, that the 200 million EVI is interesting, it is important that they are ours, that they are ours. The 100 million of the training for the unemployed, they're also money, they give us, they're ours. 36 million euros for education, too. It is important that the criteria for autonomous financing are met and that Mr Sánchez does not come here now to set criteria unilaterally by jumping all the criteria for autonomous financing to the date of Mrs Aranguena. If we're talking about money, let's talk about, but about all of us, about those who have to put together and also about those who have to put down the state, and about those who steal the state that is from the Greeks and the Greeks. Look, I'm going to finish with a question I think it's important, and it's going to keep holding your hand. I think it's crucial that all groups really talk about people's problems. People, the truth is, in the street there's nothing more to talk about than franchise, there's nothing more to talk about than the transfer of AP-9, there's nothing more to talk about the affairs of Ourense. There's no other talk here than that. Look, I'm on the street...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u94	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u95	...I hear people who have problems with an ERTE who don't charge. I people hear about the problems that trade has because it doesn't sell, about the problems that parents and mothers have when taking children to schools, about the problems that people want to work for. Yeah, yeah, there's a lot of trouble, lots of trouble. You always reduce them to two, to two, yes, if you reduce them to two...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u96	Finish, Mrs. Prado, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u97	Well, I'm holding them by the hand to work on everybody...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u98	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u99	Ma'am, I understand they put her behind her and that Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo is upset, but I don't have to blame her for taking her spokespersons.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u100	Finish, please. Do not log in now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u101	I'm so sorry that... you have a failure that if I
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u102	Don't go into dialogue now, Mrs. Prado. It's over, but it's over now... look at the clock, look at the clock...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u103	If they interrupt me, Mr. President. I'm done. I simply say that we will continue to work faithfully in Galicia and without looking at the party interests that you are looking at all the time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u104	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u105	They speak of Galicia and loyally to Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Prado, your time is up. Thank you. Close to appearance, first vice-president and chairlor, Justice and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Aranguena and Mr. Tabaretes because thank you very much, if you realize that it's much easier for me if we start talking a little bit about what we've been talking about here, at least they're asking me to try to answer some of the issues that I really think I'm interested in in an appearance to set legislating targets and start discussing. So, thank you, it's a shame that in another longer intervention, all of this is the same. Now in this shorter one some allusion have made and I'll try to answer it, part of commenting on the curious. They're still arguing and so many years later Mr. Tabares is so obsessed with the elections of the year 2009 and returning to them in both interventions, you're saying that we're not talking about elections. Hey, you always win the election and they like to say that people vote for you. Don't say that, agree at least on that. And by the way, talking about changes in counseling. If making changes indicates that things work badly, your group in the previous legislation had to be a disaster seeing the changes they made, therefore, to see if we agreed on that. [[Applause]] And, Mr. Aranguena, he was talking about telework, I don't know if you know, it won't be because he talks about transparency, he tried to explain. First, Galician Union was a pioneer in setting up telework, before the pandemic, which was also recognized by many administrations. There were a lot of people already working because we think it's a system that needs to be explored in the future, from now on a lot more, and so there were general addresses, to the judiciary, the techniques that had already installed telework in a considerable amount, now much more, He's been teleworking 65% of the board staff, why? because there were measures that were taken before they allowed it and the technological advances allowed that many people, many workers and public workers from Galicia were working during the pandemic, after that they were re-incorporating, of course, with health assurances, according to the clinical committee and what the clinical committee said here in Galicia if there were, if there were, could therefore say things, there was no need to invent what they were saying and if they were incorporating themselves and now save people who are in a series of circumstances are incorporated with all guarantees, but prepared for at any time to return to teleworking and from now on we have just announced an agreement on that matter for a law, because for Galicia also try to be first in a way of work that I am sure to stay. But we had a lot of work done. You told me about the presence of staff in the courts. Listen, you'll know, you're actually legal yours perfectly, in case you've remembered it, as Mr Tabares said that in the organization of the judges and the views this to see if we clarify how this competition is, because of course we don't have a clear understanding of how competition works and how it works every day of this competition because it's very difficult, now you as a member of Parliament also have to internalize that the Council of Galicia has some competences which I try to explain to you and to you in its first intervention I give you absolutely the same, now in the second intervention a little, I thank you, but these are the ones that are, and therefore, there are things in which we have the ability to decide and others that we do not, that, to try to help always, so we have that joint commission, so we have that group that met what I did in my first intervention during that follow-up committee during the pandemic and therefore we have that close relationship that allows us to make joint proposals. And now I'm going to what Mr. Tabares was saying that he asked me about this legislation, you didn't ask me, Mr. Tabares if I let him forget now, now I'll leave him, the relationship of all of us who have created these years. By this year 3, do you know how much the ministry would tell us? 1, you know what we've done, that is, a few, and [] everyone who gives us will open them, we're going to set them up as we always did. Whenever judicial bodies were offered, the board of Galicia said that everyone who was granted Galicia would say yes, and there were years that autonomous communities governed not by the People's Party, but by the Socialist Party and the Socialist Party's qualities to other parties said no, that it was not a priority for them to the judicial bodies, and there Galicia was, and said, then for us. And we've been able to create more motorcycles for years, and so we got to that number that I was telling you, because whenever we had a chance, we did it, and now too. And I'm sorry to tell you that we had to arrive last year to see how Mr. Sánchez's Ministry of Justice, the first time he offered — on occasion, he had been ruling for a year earlier — the creation of judicial bodies, the first time he took them away from the Galician criterion — that he was united between judges and the Galician Union. They always created what we identified after telling us the number, always, Mr. Tabares! This time, inexplicably, we don't know why Lugo has been punished for a year with the need he has and that he continues to have without a Social Judge simply because someone has earned it in the Ministry of Justice in the Central Government. We never had any explanation; indeed, Santiago — who was also without him — got it. And we thank and correct Santiago and we're going to give it to the Galician Union and keep his position at cost, because it costs them to the Galician Union and we say, of course! And that's why he could have, and Place completely forgotten. Until this year we'll try again, I hope they don't do the same thing because maybe we'll go back to the same story. And when we say again that Lugo still has that need, now increased by everything that's happened this year and say no again. So, I hope there's some tenderness this time and if you follow that criterion. I was talking about Minerva in Welsh, I'm asking you to use it. We're talking and you know it's a processing system that depends on the source codes of the ministry. We always insist that we are a bilingual community, and therefore this must be established; and I therefore ask them to help us also with the enormous influence they have to realize that Galicia also in the Administration of Justice is a bilingual community. The Welsh police. Well, it's known the posture of the Galician Union. Of course, besides, as we speak about the Welsh police, there's no need to talk about what we can do now, which is to complete the 120 missing troops in the Police Unit assigned to the gates of the Xacobeo. No, no, we pull back by elevation, talking about things that know they won't be possible, at least immediately, and the Autonomic Police Assistant Unit we've got right now continues to lose force against the indifference of the central government. By the way, the Welsh police is like so many other things, one thing is making proclamations, and another thing is later realising them. Listen, agree with the Socialist Party that it disagrees with the creation of a new police with these characteristics. So if you rule and support the Government in Madrid, it doesn't make any sense that you say this here when your majority partners aren't for work at all and voted against whenever it was put on. So those inconsistencies ultimately lead us to be as we are and we can't do the important thing to complete the Police Unit. The transfer. They told us we'd stop bothering, you know, you know, if we leave them alone, they'll get a lot of things. Well, I feel like Mr Bará isn't here — he's not right now — he's telling me no. PSOE-BNG investment agreement. It has already begun to slide — I look at the data and I call attention — that no, not, that the commitment was to bring together the Joint Transfer Commission to talk about it. You look, it's been nine months and they haven't met the joint commission yet, and that's why he dances happily. I am very concerned that the PSOE-BNG investment agreement says: "Compromises with basic infrastructures: approval at Congress of Members of the Galician Parliament's bill for the transfer of AP-9 over the year 2020". This is what they have in their agreement, therefore, Mr. Tabares, if they are so clear, if they do not feel deceived and everything happens, tic-tac, tic-tac, because there are nine months and there are three left to pass the bill. [[Laughter]] And it doesn't tell us another story! [[Applause]] Don't tell us another story! [[Applause]] And, of course, everyone knows that what is signed is maintained, ensuring at least the 100% bonus for the recurrent users and the freeness of the Vigo-Roundela scheme, all this in 2020. Signed and published, another thing is that they now start telling us that it's not so, the bad thing is that it's so. So, I'm glad that this issue is coming out here today, that we don't offer to have that... — in the name of all the Greeks, because we represent them all once we are Government, those who voted for us and those who didn't — that we want to have this bilateral meeting to talk about this subject and you say no, that we don't bother them because they've practically shut it off in tic-tac, tic-tac, that there are three months left and we have no idea what they've done so far. So good luck on that, too. [[Murmurs.]] And, ladies and gentlemen, I, president, end up returning to the spirit of my initial appearance and to what I intended to inaugurate this round of appearances the request itself that is to explain what we want to do. A united government that wants to do things in a very complicated situation, that will have this first part — at least in my competences — very conditioned by the situation in which we are and that we all care about above all as much as before, first, from a health point of view, and then of economic reactivation; and, if it can be, at the same time, that it has to be. So what it has to do with justice, what it has to do with local administration, what it has to do with emergencies, what it has to do with basic and fundamental services, is continue to be a priority for this government. And I hope — despite what we hear here today, especially in the first round of your speeches — that for you too, at least a little attention. We'll try to dedicate 100% to him. And I look at the European funds, not a single mention either. I don't know if they're aware that we're playing hundreds of millions of euros right now. I don't know if they're aware that this isn't something about the PP and the Galician Union — that of course too — this is something about all the Greeks and the Greeks that we still need these funds, and it's also about the Asturians, how sad that the Asturians have it so much clearer than the BNG and the PSOE voices they spoke here today! What a pity that I am to motivate a meeting of the two leaders of Asturias and Galicia and that you don't even mention that we are now heavily dependent on what Mr Sánchez is doing in Brussels. That right now we are heavily dependent on that negotiating capacity and that you are very aware that in the east of the peninsula you cannot dispense with these funds. What a pity they didn't realize, and, if you realize it, then I apologize but it was good for them to exteriorize to the extent that this also means pressure that Galicia depends very much on the Central Government right now being up to as the Central Government was at the height of the year 2014. At least we're still waiting, everything else we'll see, but this is very urgent and, therefore, we're going to keep insisting and we're going to keep pushing because we're playing very hard. Hand tended for everything, I think by speaking things and avoiding irrational postures are then avoided results like those we just met today, the verdict of the metropolitan area, law driven by the Galician Union, four years later a judge just said that the Galician Union was right. And that, therefore, the position of not integrating Vigo's transport into metropolitan transport has motivated that all this had been done wrong, that the resource was well placed and that, therefore, they were lost four years, and well I am sorry! We're going to try to avoid these things, no one has the absolute truth, but I think by dialogue and avoiding confrontations, and thinking that things sometimes have to be how they have to be achieved. And since we're not going to waste my time, I wouldn't like it having to be a judge again what I said the Board was right about fundamental issues as it just happened today. I'd like you to discuss things here, we'll come to agreements and that all the people who might be watching us or who are reading the papers tomorrow, see the media and say that if you're talking about the issues that affect me, see that you really talk about the subjects that directly touch you and not other topics that at least in this audience -- frankly, in my opinion -- didn't touch. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u108	Thank you, Vice President. I now make a change in the agenda, something we had to do yesterday, but it cannot be done, which is the promise or oath to abide by and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute of Galicia's autonomy of the new Mrs. Teresa Egerique Mosquera. This is done by complying with Article 7.1 of the Regulation. For which I am seeking the promise or oath to abide and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute of autonomy of the new Mrs Teresa Egerique Mosquera. And according to the procedure, the formula is to answer "yes, I swear," or "yes, I promise" to the question of this presidency. I'm asking you to answer the question I'm going to ask you. Mrs. Teresa Egerique Mosquera, do you swear or promise to adhere to and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute of Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u109	Yes, I swear.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u110	Thank you very much. Once I have given the oath, you shall acquire the full condition of the honourable Member. Welcome to Parliament. [[Applause]] We're still on the agenda. You ask the Government. Question by Mr Miguel Ángeldo Filgueira and 9 other members of the G.P. Galician populace, about the response given by the Central Government to the demand of Galician Labour Load Board for Navantia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u111	Question by Mr José Manuel Rey of the People's Parliamentary Group. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u112	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President. Good morning. Ferrol is a city linked to the sea, born of a decision of the state to build ships and to house them by the hand of the Spanish Navy. This dependence on the State has passed on to you on numerous occasions, especially after the so-called socialist ship conversions that have been rather a progressive deterioration of our main economic activity and generation of employment. Mr. Vice-President, Ferrol has lost more than 20,000 inhabitants in the last 40 years, 25% of his population, the only Galician that shows this data that they qualify for themselves. We also have — let me give you very briefly three economic magnitudes — a rate of 15% unemployment, the highest in the cities of Galicia. The rate of activity parallel to the previous lowest in all the cities of Galicia; and, as a result of these two previous data, we unfortunately recorded the highest poverty risk rate in Galicia, 20%. They will agree with me that the situation is much worse than was registered in this city two years ago, a pandemic apart. To want Ferrol is to be proud of our history, of what we know to do and trust our future, but also not to look elsewhere while this happens. We have an obligation to defend the naval and the jobs on which it depends not only our future but also our present, so that's why this question. Given that Navantia has just handed over the first logistics ship to Australia, that the Government of Spain does not implement the Ponte ship, unanimously requested by this Parliament as long as the F-110s do not begin, and that we do not know anything about the actual planning of the frigates beyond propaganda, which we do not know anything about the dry dam of the transformation of the yard 4.0, what response did the central government give to the demand of the Galician Task Force for Navantia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. King Varela. Mr. Conde López spoke for the answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Varela, thank you for bringing to this House the situation of the German naval sector and, in particular, of the naval sector in Ferrol; and, unfortunately, the Government's response is silence. There's no planning, there's no concretion, there's no chronogram, and above all we're finding that the Government is abandoning the ferrolan naval sector to its fate. Of course, since Galician union we will not allow it, and we are aware that the Government of Spain owes Ferrol and owes it to the ferrolan naval sector, that we will work together to meet it. It's true that the delivery of the first of the logistics ships to the Australian Navy in early September was a good news, was the expression of the know-how of the shipyard professionals and the auxiliary Ferrol industry. But it also reveals the limited situation in which we are currently in a state of emergency and a situation in which we need an immediate reaction from the Government. And I'm going to refer to the facts because I think the situation is complex enough to just talk about facts, or really lack of commitments and realities on the part of the Government. First of all, the occupation at the Ferrol factory is running out in six months, gentlemen, the Ferrol steps of the Navantia yard will be empty, the situation that has been known for a long time. And for some time now the Government has compromised the construction of a supply ship and, unfortunately, now the same Government that has committed itself is discarding that reality. Secondly, there is an important delay in the execution of the F-110 frigate program. The government would have to explain to us what is happening with the budgetary execution of this project. Since 2018 there have been EUR 250 million that were approved in the 2018 budget, the question is what happened to these EUR 252 million? What happened to the 252 million euros of the year 2019? And what happened to the 252 million of the year 2020? Someone will have to explain to us why we don't have a start date for the construction of the frigates, because there's no order schedule; and, above all, because there's currently no workload forecast for Navantia Ferrol. And we follow the realities of the yard. Indeed, that commitment to transform the Navantia yard, a 4.0 yard that allows you to be competitive...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u115	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u116	...it's also without concretion. There's no realization about the construction of the dry dam and that project is in the government drawer, and we all know in Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Conde.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u118	...that this project is what can give competitiveness to the railway yard towards the future.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u119	Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u120	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u121	Let's see if we can make the following interventions appear the time for those who ask the question and those who answer them to have a reference. I'm sorry that this first question was not available and that you can put it on the screens for the next intervention. For the 2-minute replica shift you have the words Mr. King Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u122	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, we thank you from this group for all the information you give us about the evolution of the Welsh naval sector, particularly today in the naval sector of the Ferrol River. A constant follow-up we have to say on the part of the Government of Galicia and its councillor in recent years. We also want to thank you for the ship being in Galicia's economic agenda, supporting the use of the powers of the Galician Union to Navantia through very important programmes of innovation, training and financing for the auxiliary industry. I also wanted to tell you that we regret that silence of the Government of Pedro Sanchez. After years of accusing the People's Party of blocking the F-110 frigates, now that they've been in government for more than two years, we still don't know anything about what happens, when they start, what their planning is. What we really know is what the vice president just said, 252 million euros that let the Government of Madrid of the People's Party of 2018 set out, gave in 2019 and 2020 that they are not investing in Galicia and that they are not investing in Ferrol. We regret that the AOR has not been implemented, which we, in theory, called for quite unanimously from this Parliament, but has just commissioned a BAM in the south. We regret that no request was made for the granting of occupation, the environmental impact study or the license for the Starry 4.0. That is why we wanted to ask you, Mr Vice-President, to continue to transfer to Madrid and to defend the interests of the galley ship and the ferrolá naval sector. There are 3,000 jobs at risk, not as our future said, but our present, we don't want...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u123	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u124	...more than anyone, but no less. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. King Varela. Mr. Conde López has the floor for the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. King Varela, I believe that the reality we are living in Navantia is an unprecedented reality, of abandonment by the Government of Spain and that clearly has to be reversed. And I'm saying this so clearly because we're talking about a yard, Navantia and, we're talking about an auxiliary industry that is demonstrating its good work and that, above all, when we talk about the naval sector, we talk about innovation, we talk about quality and we also talk about fulfilling commitments. The Galician Union is supporting the naval sector with these innovation programmes linked to the smart factory and the joint innovation units of which are benefiting both Navantia and the auxiliary industry and which are allowing the technological development of the sector. We are supporting through a specific training plan for both the employed and the unemployed. And finally through funding allowing, providing lines of specific loans for the naval sector as well. In total we have invested more than 50 million euros in the naval sector in recent years and, in a special way, also with Navantia, supporting Navantia in that development of the Starry 4.0, supporting Navantia the Spanish public sector with funds from the autonomous community, with funds from the Galician Union that would require reciprocity from the point of view of commitment to the sector itself or to the yard itself. And we are aware that we need more and that is why we want to ask the government and we want to ask Navantia to use the funds of the European Union Recovery Plan to fund the dry dyke on the railway yard. It's a strategic infrastructure for Navantia, it's a strategic infrastructure for the Welsh naval sector that must be perfectly coupled and whether it should be transferred to those funds of the European Union Recovery Plan which would really allow for a new opportunity to accelerate these investments. In the Spanish Government there is the ability to decide and, therefore, we hope that the Government of Spain will be able to defend the position of the naval sector before the European Union. A situation that unfortunately this same government is not defending in the situation of tax law, today we know a sentence that clearly prejudices the naval sector once again and, unfortunately, the Socialist Party against the naval sector. In any case, we will ask Navantia for clarity about the deadlines for cutting the plate, we will also demand that these investments of Estaleiro 4.0 be carried out and would ask Navantia to take 2 years, 2 years, to initiate the administrative processing of Estaleiro 4.0.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u127	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u128	I don't think Ferrol deserves this deal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u129	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u130	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u131	Thank you very much, Vice President. [[Applause]] The next question to 7.3 by Mrs. Presas Berganginos was postponed and we moved on to 7.4. Question by Da María Corina Porro Martínez and six other Members of the G.P. People of Galicia, on the criteria and the purpose of the measures to be taken for the detection of covid-19 carried out to certain groups in recent months
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u132	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Amigo Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u133	Thank you, President. Good morning. Thank you very much, Counselor, for coming here to the plenary meeting to answer our questions. On 11 March 2020 the World Health Organization raised the state of public health emergency caused by the expansion of the covid-19 at the international pandemic level. This expansion is generating an unprecedented recent public health crisis that affects all sectors and individuals. The various national and international administrations, bodies and institutions had to take drastic and urgent measures to prevent and fight this pandemic. In Spain, the first case of covid-19 was detected in January and since then the number of contagions has gradually increased at a tremendous speed and resulted in an unprecedented health crisis, which required exceptional measures to protect the health and safety of the citizen, to contain disease progress and to mitigate the health impact. On 14 March the state of alarm was declared in Spain and one day before the declaration of the alarm state the agreement of the Council of Galicia of 13 March 2020 declared the health emergency situation in the territory of the Autonomous Community of Galicia which forced a series of transitional measures aimed at ensuring at the same time the safety of health professionals and patients, while maintaining at all times the correct balance in the exercise of the rights and obligations of the citizenship of Galicia. Once the state of alarm was lifted in Spain and maintained in Galicia the state of health emergency, the agreement of the Council of Galicia on 12 June 2020 on prevention measures necessary to deal with the health crisis caused by the cowardly 19th. And once phase 3 of the plan has been passed to a new normality that regulates in conjunction with the aforementioned health emergency declaration agreement the prevention and control measures that are in force and work today in our autonomous community. One of these measures was to carry out mass tests to groups especially exposed to the virus, some who either were located in geographical areas and segments of the population specially affected, or were either carried out throughout the territory of the country centred on specific groups. For all this since the popular bench today we bring the next question to the full. What criteria, which are the criteria and objectives, have the measures to be taken to detect covid-19 made to certain groups in recent months? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Friend. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u135	President, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Friend, as you know Galicia was the first autonomous community to arrive at the so-called new normality on June 15, however we continue under the health emergency situation and therefore our great challenge is that the gradual recovery of everyday life and economic activity results by minimizing the risk that the pandemic represents for the health of the population. And those guarantees for reactivation can only be provided if we provide our health system with a monitoring and prevention system that enables early detection. A system for which there is a need for proof of infection detection in certain strategic groups. That's why the Health Council in coordination with other councils is carrying out squats in professional groups. In addition to the health professionals themselves and residences, all teachers and non-teachers of primary and secondary education and public and concerted schools, children's school professionals, agricultural land tempores, security forces, both national and local police and the Autonomic Police, and personnel to prevent and extinguish forest fires. On the other hand, we are actively looking for cases in risk groups of general population both in more vulnerable people in the case of residential users, and for being asymptomatic carriers in the transmission chain in the case of youth. How do we do it? According to the different protocols of action adopted within the clinical committee and recommended by the Ministry of Health, that is, with the following selection of diagnostic tests. In cases involving professional collectives, serological tests are carried out with determination of antibodies [...] and [...] and in the active search of cases through the CRP technique. The results of the [...] selected report the following data at present. As regards the above-mentioned professional groups, 48,689 persons have been tested, which means 82.2% of the collective and a percentage of 0.3% of positives. In relation to youth, the search is being carried out in the central areas of Coruña and Santiago and it is expected to cover more than 63,000 people. At present 40% of these were performed with a percentage of 0.6% of positives. It is important to point out that in this population we are observing a smaller response in the call for other groups, and this is an important problem that we have to improve. I therefore take this opportunity to speak in Parliament about making a call and encouraging and raising awareness of this population in relation to the pandemic. I will, of course, be at your disposal for any further clarification you need.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u136	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u137	Thank you very much, Counselor. We know of the efforts being made from all the departments of the Galician Union and more from the Health Council to be able to combat this tremendous pandemic. If we go back to that Council of the Galician Union of 12 March 2020 where preventive measures have already been taken in the field of public health for our autonomous community as a result of the evolution of the covid and where the agreement has also been adopted to approve the Public Employee Action Protocol of the Galician Union Administration, so far they have not ceased to take measures to combat this pandemic. This allowed data to be better in Galicia than in the rest of Spain. We thank and value all the data that has brought us here today, more than ever we are aware that we must raise awareness of people, our colleagues, our neighbors, our friends, the need for prevention, is a matter of education and solidarity. We are all responsible for our actions. We're seeing a lot of family contagion, and it's also very worrying about the acts that we're seeing mainly in youth, in our youth. This pandemic has to be aware that it affects us all and awareness and responsibility is fundamental. We would now like to be informed that proposals or improvements are planned from the Health Council in the screening processes that are planned to be put in place and that it is also assessed, if there is any novelty to improve the effectiveness of these pilots. Thank you very much again, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Friend. Close the question, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u139	President, ladies and gentlemen. Indeed, Mrs. Friend, we have to take new steps, we do not comply with the already done and we continue to work with the clinical experts to try to get ahead of the pandemic by strengthening the pilots and active case search, innovating in technology and looking for more flexible grotesque management alternatives. For this purpose Galicia will continue to raise professional groups according to the needs that arise and perform the active search for cases. In the case of residential centres, we will perform all professionals, approximately 15,500, every 14 days through CRP. It must be remembered that since the beginning of the pandemic, two casts have been held in the residences, the first sample has started on April 2nd and ended on May 6th, a total of 1,161 positive residents have been detected, and 460 professionals. The second sample began on June 22nd and ended on July 22nd and in total two professionals with positive proof of Covid-19. As a novelty in new recruits, the Pulling technique with saliva sample collection will be used in professionals, allowing the auto to take and agitate the entire process. This technique [+] to perform case search in other collectives [] more agilely. In the case of residents given the impossibility of collecting saliva samples, a random sampling will be done every 14 days in all Galician residences that are more than 300. This sample is based on a mathematical model that incorporates different parameters that target the incidence of Covid in each area, and allows to modify the number of samples depending on the epidemiological station. With these systematic seizures we can prevent and monitor infection and Covid as well as decision-making adapted to the reality of the population at every moment. We will take the measures that are taking on a daily basis and anticipate prevention strategies as far as possible, following the indications established by international bodies, the clinical committee and the Government of Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a good health system, we have plans for prevention and control of Covid infection in different [] professionals, we have contingency plans, good health infrastructures and great professional, and of course we have good screening programs. And yet, we will continue to work to suit the needs of the epidemiological situation at every moment, in order to provide adequate assistance to citizenship, and of course we will take note of everything that in the future can improve our health care. I want to take advantage of your intervention to insist on something that you were commenting on the desirability of extreme measures, not only in the field of work, not only in the field of education, but especially in the field of family life and leisure where we are proving that the different outbreaks that are really where the largest number of cases actually occur today. I, even if it's difficult to relax those conditions that we so well maintain in our daily jobs and obligations and that we have them as far as possible in the field of especially family and friendship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u140	Thank you, Counselor. Question by D. Julio Torrado Quintela and Da Marina Ortega Otero, from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the exact number of trackers currently existing in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u141	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counsellor, welcome from our group and formally the first time we interact in this parliament, the welcome maid to wish a good debate today [] will not happen, after in addition to the hard, painful and aggressive question that has just been received, I will try to relax a little tone to facilitate the debate a little. This is a question we moved to but that really has to do with the previous management. Obviously, you lead in front of the council not to take care of everything that has happened before, we are aware that if you fully assume the inheritance received, I'm going to use a term, or yes, yes, or no, that's already something that corresponds to you. We plant the trackers, because our question. The first of May was announced in Galicia that there were about 20 trackers, by the end of May it was already 50, a reasonable increase. In June it didn't even come to a month later, Mr. Feijóo said the candy and dish, nothing has to do with the election in a few days, that there were 6,108. Neither the breads nor the fish did so, 50 to 6,108. It is true that Mr. Feijóo explained here that they are tracers, of course they are all primary doctors because they put the data on a computer, on the IANUS, of course they are tracers, therefore 6,108, the question is who primary doctors are, yes, but the preventive professionals, the territorial heads, the call center, the managers, yourself, at this step will be tracers the left side of Ferrol's racing. I mean, we got up in the morning thinking if we don't have to be trackers too, I don't have the training to do this, if you're telling me, please, give me a discharge. What do professionals really say? That they don't know those trackers, that if they're the ones who have to do that job, at least tell them. What they contrast is that the contacts of the positives don't call them anyone, that very few times you can make that contact, that you understand but that you don't, that you don't follow up isolated cases. Why do you understand? Because some people who have worked in that 50-per-dollar group, about, say they were no more than 50 per shift and say they can't make thousands of calls in one day, like primary professionals can't have 50 patients a day, either, of course, as normal. They're very good professionals, but they're not superheroes yet. Even at this rate they have to arrive. I'm not going to do it anymore -- this is our welcome promise -- I'm not going to ask you why it's not up to you, the explanations about the company, and the links of the company that has the ship where the trackers are in Bergondo. That might give you another moment and it doesn't correspond to you and it's not the main interest of our question. But it's true that some question about that would have to be raised. The question is how many trackers there are actually in Galicia. If it's possible to know, or if that's how they work, whether they're distributed by areas or not, where they work, who hire them, in what conditions, what training they have. In the end, actually, you're saving a [] Feijóo or there are 6,108 trackers, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u142	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u143	Yes, good morning, president. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Torrado, your question that I give the same consideration to is yours that all those who come to me from any of the groups and I'm going to answer with the same rigor and precision because I have to tell you that that number, that question you ask me about [+] in Galicia, because I have to say simply that I can't give you that exact number if you don't give me an exact definition of what you understand by a tracker. And I explain, I've just been a manager in a health care area, I can assure you that in my template there's never been a job called a tracker, never. [[Laughter]] It's not in the staff settings or in any health service in Spain. The situation caused by the pandemic is new, unpublished, and this forces health systems to adapt to creating new processes with the personnel with which it counts and with flexible adaptation mechanisms. To say that 6,000 people are involved in tracking the Greek health system seems like a mess ceremony, because to me and from my knowledge I say no. And I'm telling you the truth, I'm just in charge. I understand that one of my main functions is to defend and facilitate the work of the staff of the Greek health system. And that's why I can't do what you ask me to do, because I can't value the work of collectives who play an extraordinarily important role in this process. To whom you want to include or exclude, the personnel of the preventive and super-RL medical services from all health care areas that follow up and control the hospitalized positives and the health care staff, being permanent guard. I find it unfair to exclude them. To the staff of the technological surveillance services that follow each grom that takes place in a residence, in a hostel establishment, in a school, also as a permanent guard, I also find it unfair to exclude them. The primary care staff who follow up the contagies that are in their home that also have a fundamental role in detecting new cases, asking for PCR in their community family health facet. I can't assume I don't have to tell the job of this staff really not. Perhaps you just want to tell the contact tracking plant operators, a staff who has been trained and who has been equipped with interviews protocols for confirmed cases and their contacts. Of course they count, they're right now the right number, a number that adapts the needs that are produced in each area, and that work together, they're not specific to an area, which I also asked about. First, that its procedure is under permanent review by a multidisciplinary team of public health professionals, preventive medicine, emergencies, etc., they also count. And second, they are permanently advised and supervised by technicians of the territorial heads of hospitals who receive daily information about the situation they do from this center. Finally, Mr Torrado, I think it is important to clarify that tracking is not a trade, nor a category of work, health tracking is a process, in which health management is also involved, in fact. It's a complex and integrated process and in the Health Council and Sergas, it'll put all the necessary resources. Health processes are not measured by the number of people who perform them but by their results. Galician results can obviously improve, but I think so far a good job has been done...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u144	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u145	... in order to stop the contagion chains...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u146	Thank you, Counselor. Time's up. [[Applause]] Replica, toast.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u147	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm going to start with the confusion ceremony. The ceremony of confusion is to announce 50 in May, 6,108 the next month, first because they're counting them later or they're not counting before, in one of the moments they told a little lie, let them choose when they went, I have no problem. Allow me, if I don't say so, the question was for you, not for me. [[Laughter]] Counselor, I don't think — let me be wrong — I don't think I have to define what a tracker is or what their functions are. I'm telling you the truth, I've been waiting for you since the councillor's office to find out. I'm more concerned about the answer. And yet we're going to continue to benefit from the doubt, because you tell me that if you have numerical control of how many people have at the call station, you forget the detail of telling how many are. If you can explain it to me in the second intervention. And I'm going to try, really, and that I'm trying to contain myself because the truth is that the answer is a little bit difficult to assume, what do you count for trackers? Because according to that description or what we could infer from it if a person counted for coward is in his house but doing well that work does his memory of who he was, in which places, with whom he contacted, with whom he was longer, less, and calls those people: "Hey! Look, they say positive you know, he's also a tracker. So tell the Feijóo because we already have the headline for the next full, there are 2,700,000 tracers in Galicia, because it's also true that those who are not infected can call and warn that they are not. And then we have 2,700,000 and we'd be the first to anything. Counselor, with all due kindness, I don't think it was prudent to answer, if you can explain any facts to me in the next answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u148	Thank you. Close this question, Counselor of ÇHealth.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u149	Mr. Torrado, I insist, results, so I don't talk about manipulation, I'm going to use those of the Carlos III Institute, dependent on the Ministry of Health, data obtained from the national network of epidemiology, the last of which was exactly a week ago. Galicia is among the three autonomous communities that detect more cases of Covid by asymptomatic people, the percentages of cases of cowardly cases detected in Galicia correspond to people who did not have symptoms and around 66%, when the national average is 53%. With data identified by case, we are on the national average with 3 contacts. We can no doubt improve this point, but probably this improvement if you get in the review continues to be subjected to the tracking process, which is insistent, a process. But for that, I insist that it is essential not only the work of the Tracking Center professionals, which of course I put in value as it cannot be otherwise, that they do the polls, the follow-up of the telephone output during the quarantine. I also insist again on primary care staff who develop the clinical evaluation of these contacts and manifest symptoms. And also from public health technicians, social workers who collaborate in tracking. If this wasn't an integrated process, we wouldn't have an epidemiological monitoring system and monitor that is integrated into the electronic clinical history system and that allows all health professionals working in the tracking system to lead the situation of each patient and the evolution of the people around it. As I said, we're going to continue to improve, in the next few days an App Step [] will be launched, which complements the cover radar of the ministry and the staff of the tracking and contact plant when I do the searches with the false positives will facilitate your activation codes so that you can clean up the application a high exposure alert directed to the mobiles you've been in contact with less than two meters longer than 15 minutes. Finally, I think Galicia has shown in a lot of things, to be leading innovation in the treatment of this pandemic, from the car compartment, to the pull that we will now expand the saliva tests and this was only possible thanks to the involvement of all the professionals who collaborate in the detection and tracking process, which I insist is a process and not a professional or a category. Which are many and varied but those who join their participation in an integrated process, and those who also join together, above all one [] and that my duty is to facilitate their work and recognize them all equally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u150	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Da Marina Ortega Otero and D. Julio Torrado Quintela, G. P. of the Galician Socialists, about the errors that caused a massive situation of cod-19 in the homes of older people, such as the Incio and the Hill of King
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u151	Thank you, President. Counsellor, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on your appointment and above all wish you luck and success in your decisions because we are at a critical moment in Galicia and social policies were decisive. After the first wave in the pandemic we experienced an unprecedented situation, it was something for which our society was not prepared. A virus that made reality and deficiencies visible in the residential care system. In this context the residences were the dynamite of the virus and as a result our biggest ones paid the most expensive toll of the shed, with almost half of the total deaths in this area. In the last few weeks we've been witnessing new massive and abrupt outbreaks within residential care centers, since from last month until Junta had to intervene already three. We are concerned about the objective criteria for determining the time of reaction by the administration in the residences involved, but we are also concerned about what additional measures are being taken in those residences after the intervention of the Administration. There does not seem to be a sufficiently axillary objective approach to the intervention of the centres concerned. And we're also observing that when outbreaks come to light they're suddenly massive in some residences and this concerns us. It would be important to have more detailed information from the board. In particular, it would be important to have the specific data for residence, a demand — as the counselor himself knows — has been sued from time to time by families. That, by the way, they're still reporting yesterday that the data doesn't match them, even talking about 300 people and so on. Let us remember that it is a very important issue for families — I repeat — who are going through a very difficult situation and given the lack of contact with families, and because I am still getting worse. It is urgent and necessary to have more information and to be able to meet your demands. Given the time of action over these months and the learning of what is supposed to happen, we had to acquire. We want to know what are the mistakes that have been made in the most affected residential centers in recent months, such as the Home Center of the Incio Outeiro, and right now because we have the new O Pinar, in Culleredo? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u152	Thank you, Mrs Ortega. Reply by the Social Policy Advisor, Ms. Faviola García Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u153	President. Members and Members. Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Mrs Ortega, for your congratulations. I also truly understand and thank you for your concern about the situation of the Incio residences, of King's Hill, and also of Culleredo's residences. Believe me in the truth, Mrs Ortega, when I tell you that I deeply share that concern because it is precisely our duty to ensure the well-being and the safety of our elders, it is absolutely essential for this Government. And, as I've already said in this House on previous occasions, the residences of our seniors and the residences of persons with disabilities are not isolated spaces in contact with the outside. They are not like prisons — as Mr. Caballero once said — and unfortunately they are not bunkers either. Because just as cases of coronovirus appear in many homes, in many homes, in offices, in other institutions, there are also cases of coronovirus unfortunately in the homes of older people who live with many people every day and maintain close and physical contact with their caregivers. To say that zero risk can be guaranteed in residences where there are contaminations, everywhere, in all communities and in all countries, that means lying. And in view of this reality, it's our responsibility as Government to do everything possible to contain the entry of the coronavirus into our residences, just as we've been doing since the beginning of our pandemic. We developed framework protocols and sent them to all residences to adapt them to their facilities. The health authorities have the permanent custody of all Galician residences, whatever their title. And in those residences where the quality of care and health is compromised, these residences intervene. As we did at the residence of King's Hill, as we did at the residence of the Incio, or as we did now at the residence of Culleredo. Since the beginning of the pandemic, the Galician Union has always worked with maximum transparency. The Greeks and the Greeks have a faithful picture of the situation, a faithful and up-to-date image every day: the number of contagions broken down by centre — both users and workers — total deaths, and also those recorded in all of Galicia's residences. And thanks to that transparency, Mrs Ortega, you have all the information you have written on this parliamentary question. And it's also related to other data that don't say how 99% of Galician residences today don't count on any positive, whether among residents or among workers. However, there is other information that would be very necessary and that they need the Greek families, which is all that information the Central Government has, that the Galician Union has sent to you all the days of the pandemic and that we still, six months later, have not yet received. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u154	Thank you, Counselor. Thank you. Replica. Mrs. Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u155	Thank you. Counsellor, you said in an interview in the media that Galicia was an example of management even comparing nationally with other autonomous communities, and saying in this case they anticipated it. I think it's not the time for the autobomb when we continue with the incidence of COVID in the very worrying residential area, that we have to be careful and careful to talk about such a sensitive subject and stop talking about other autonomous communities, because speaking from all over Spain means that because competences are transferred to autonomous communities. I think this is not a matter of ranking who's doing it better but looking inside and acting because every day counts. On the other hand, he also commented on statements that at this time the residential sector is much better prepared than for a few months ago to face the entry of the coronavirus into our residences. These are your comments and we would like to know more about it, and above all to know if residential centres would increase the ratio of staff and also at the level of their qualifications, this would be very important in this sector. And the workers, by the way, in the residential care sector report the opposite that you're saying, according to what you said in the media, they think they're not better than before, but they're worse. But in the actions are the keys, Counselor, the President of the Board himself recognizes and all the team that did not do well when he deposed the CEO of seniors. Counsellor, how is it possible that in the last residences affected by viruses were detected on a single day outbreaks affecting almost 90% of some residents? What is the information channel that allows coordination and feedback that has to exist between the Administration and the residences themselves? We are fully aware that in this context it is normal to make mistakes but it is vital to transparency and to make decisive and immediate decisions with the greatest immediacy. Every day counts, we must act.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u156	Thank you, Mrs Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u157	And we think it's fundamental...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u158	Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u159	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u160	Close the question. Counsellor for Social Policy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u161	Thank you very much, President. Mrs. Ortega, judging by your answer, gives me the feeling that still to the Greeks and to the Greeks it is up to us to continue waiting for a month longer for your former co-chairman, the Minister Illa, with whom you went to those health committees at the Congress of Deputies, to make us public the data of what happened in each and every one of the residences at the national level at all and every one of the autonomous communities. The truth is, I am sorry, and I am very sorry because I believe that all older people and their families deserve to know the truth, and that the central government is transparent just as the Socialist Party requires transparency from us. And we publish that data daily, all the media and all citizens have accurate data every day. And, look, we're not going to act now, we've been acting for a long time. We've been providing all residences with daily support, we've sent him protocols every day, and they're now counting on protocols adapted to their facilities. And, in fact, I'm worried that this pandemic is being used to refer against the whole of Galician senior residences. And I really care because all these professionals in all these centers don't deserve this treatment, nor do they deserve their hard daily work to be judged. And I'm also worried because all of your users and your family need to know every day you're in the best hands. If at the moment 99% of Galician residences are completely virus-free in both users and workers is because these residences are applying the protocols facilitated by Galician Union, and advised and evaluated by a clinical committee. They will agree with me that older people unfortunately are a vulnerable collective and a collective that especially hit the arrival of the coronavirus. That is why, as you say, the Galician Council of Social Policy, and since the Health Council, we are already working on a new model of residences, a new model of residences that will be endorsed by the health authorities, which will be spoken and dialogued with the residential sector in Galicia. But we're also working for our elders, those who live alone, for an unwanted solitude plan, and also to give you more and more services and quality in the homes of older people. Without a doubt, I know that this is not a simple task, it is a hard and complex task, so I ask you today, Mrs Ortega and your group for your support, your collaboration. Because fighting this pandemic is one thing of all, of the different public administrations, of the central government, of the autonomous administration and also of the local administration, of all of the political parties that are in this House, and of all of the Greeks and the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u162	Thank you, Counselor. Question by José Antonio Armada Pérez and 6 other Members of the G.P. Most popular of Galicia, about the valuation made by the Galician Union of the origin and causes of the various fires that besieged the province of Ourense on the second weekend of September 2020 Question by D. Xosé Luís Rivas Cruz and Da María González Albert, from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the opinion of the Rural Environment Council on the causes of the recurrence of fires in Galicia, particularly in the province of Ourense, and the measures envisaged in this regard
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u163	We are now debating in an inclusive manner two questions: one, it corresponds to what Mr. José Antonio Armada, of the Popular Parliamentary Group, and the other, of Jose Luis Rivas, of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mr Antonio Armada, from the People's Parliamentary Group, begins by asking the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u164	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Counsellor, the province of Ourense suffered on the weekend of September 12th and 13th several fires originated at different points in its territory, reaching a special extinction in municipalities such as Vilarino de Conso, Chardrexa de Queixa, Vilar de Barrio and, especially, in Lobios, with direct affection to the Natural Park of Jurés. The evolution of some of these fires forced the Junta of Galicia to declare situation two, i.e. activating the prevention and civil protection mechanisms to protect populated nuclei, as happened in the Cathedral or Vegan Root. The Galician Union and local administrations have deployed in them all their personal and material means, also requesting help from the Emergency Military Unit. But the climatic circumstances, especially the strong wind, have made it very difficult to contain the expansion of the fire. The knowledge of these adverse weather circumstances was, according to their statements, decisive in the origin of these fires that the Union through its forest research teams clearly sees intent. For all the above, we asked him the following question: what valuation does the Galician Union make of the origin and the causes of the various fires that besieged the province of Ourense on the weekend of September 12 and 13?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u165	Thank you, Mr. Armada. Now you ask Mr. Rivas the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u166	Thank you, President. Twelve years since the Fires Act, twelve years since the only serious attempt to re-establish the country of Galicia, twelve years away from the work of that team that with Suárez Canal to the front marked a hope and the path of the possible to the country's field. Twelve years lost. Twelve years of Government of Feijóo that mark the promotion of the abandonment of agricultural activity, the closure of thousands of family farms that rested and managed our territory. The years in which the landscape and management of the territory of Galicia, marked by the use of the past, generated the mosaic and had wiped out the fire and the wildlings, and given life, they distributed life. And Ourense there, always there, marked territory, damaged by the politics of the secular PP of original caciquism. And his wounds that year after year reverend and multiply, Vilar de Barrio: 14 agents, 34 brigades, 17 motorcycles, 11 helicopters, 14 planes, 600 hectares. Lobes: 1 technician, 41 agents, 90 brigades, 56 motorcycles, 13 helicopters, 8 planes, 3,000 hectares. And as the mountain burns, the abandonment and the fires grow harder, and Ourense repeats our every year: Jurés, Cualedro, Montederramo, Rebordechao, Vilarino de Conso, Santalla de Montes. This year 9,000 hectares in 5 endless days. And you shaking your fleas, your guilt, for those of easy, terrorists. It's the same every year, the same canteen. Where were the air media until June? Where are the bases of the Jurés and the boat without helicopters? The three heli-transport brigades on the board without helicopters. How can you defend the fire overflow if you can't access a motorcycle to the core of the inhabited people? The Qualedro Town Hall has track management agreement?, like the PP doesn't need them, does it? But it's got a drop of 5 meters on the abandoned farms of the plot years ago. Because this knew it, they said to the public: they announce the rain and it's going to burn down all the time. Where are the 31 Environmental Agent Squares for the fire brigades that were going to be created and so they appeared on the Pladiga, and this year they're no longer, you know where they're going? They haven't approved the aid to the mountain communities requested six months ago, when will the dews and cleaning be done? After what? No one here has any responsibility. The Oransan people are not incendiary; all this is a cry of anguish from the territory that claims attention, claims management, claims the right to have life and to give life. It's a constant retreat, a scream in an extreme way that asks why they left rural to their fate without policies of economic regeneration, of land planning, of the use of the mountain. What dark interests move the People's Party to these policies of destruction of rural, abandonment and consensual depopulation? Because this has a black hand behind it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u167	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Answer from the Middle Rural Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u168	Good morning to all of you and to all of you especially, Mr. Rivas, who also have it behind you as the Health Counsellor said. I want to begin my intervention by once again expressing my sincere thanks to all the professionals who, in the most extreme conditions, see for our safety, that of our territory and, above all, that of our villages. This was demonstrated on the weekend of September 12, when the Union deployed in an extraordinary way some 2,000 troops and a total of 38 air vehicles only in the province of Ourense without neglecting the rest of the territory. Also on behalf of the Galician Union, I would like to thank the cooperation that has been made by all the administrations. The state itself that provided air media and the Military Emergency Unit, but also the local authorities, the municipalities affected. And here I want to personify my gratitude to those mayors of any political colour that is always there for citizens when forest fires occur. [[Applause]] I also want to thank the entire citizen who participated in the service, collaborated with the service, with the extinction device. That's why, Mr. Rivas, I'd like to move you the need to show respect. I say this as a Middle Rural Counsellor, but also as a German, I respect that it is due to the whole service of prevention and extinction of the fires of Galicia and as well as to all those who risk their lives to defend our property, our mountains and our villages. I'm afraid I'm not tired of exaggerating them because of the commendable work of these professionals. And look, we're talking about environmental agents, we're talking about forest technicians, we're talking about all those who make up the brigades, we're definitely talking about all the fire prevention and extinction service of the Galician Union, but as I said before about the Military Emergency Unit, the Ministry's reinforcement brigades, civil protection, firefighters, all the state's security forces and bodies, the Autonomic Police, real heroes to the whole of citizenship. With respect to which his words are lacking, which he didn't even speak of. Look, Mr Rivas, the solution to the problem of forest fires also requires a consensus among the political forces. We tried this consensus in the 2018 parliamentary committee, voted in favour of the People's Party, the Socialist Party — I thank the representatives who are here today — and voted against as always Bloc and In Marea. I agree that it was achieved in the group of experts designated by Parliament in 2019 and consensus that we also want members of the extinction service, and for this reason are set up working groups with the university to make a new law for the prevention and extinction of fires in Galicia that collects structural solutions against this problem, based on the resilience of the territory, preventive planning and anticipation of response. And the measures that we are going to take since the Rural Council take those expert recommendations and the dictates as a starting point. I'm going to quote you three because in your question you were talking about what we're doing. The prevention plan collected at the 2020 Pladiga, 30 million euros that allowed us first, unload 46,000 hectares in the territory and reach 5,800 kilometres of municipal, autonomous and also state roads. But look, the fundamental objective of forest fires is the defense of our villages. The People's Party Member once said that situation 2 puts us in an extreme area in the defense of these villages. Also within the framework of the recommendations of the dictatorship, an agreement was signed between the Fegamp, the Rural Council and the Seaga public body to implement a public system for cleaning secondary fringes, the perimeter of the villages, which we have to act there. Another 7.5 million euros that put the Middle Rural Council in the fight against forest fires. More measures. Reinforcement of the extinction service, it was something we all demanded and did so. We incorporated 500 people who were in the Seaga Public Service and doubled, gentlemen, we doubled the working time of the staff discontinuum from 3 to 6 months, 12 million euros a year. But we must continue and we must probably also work on the implementation of more agricultural activity that will act as a natural basis for forest fires. I hope that in the new law that we will present in the near future of recovery and value of Galician agricultural land, which also aims to combat fires, they support this position because it is important for the whole territory. But I can't finish without naming the most frequent cause of fires in the Greek territory. I'll also ask you to condemn incendiary behaviors in your next intervention, Mr. Rivas. In reply to the second question I was asking, we're not talking about forest policy here at the beginning, we're talking about a matter of public order, we're talking about incendiary crimes. It seems extremely dangerous to me what you said about the lighter. We're talking about those responsible who have the consideration of criminals because they endanger people's lives. And look at the intention was clearly demonstrated in those days of September, there was an extraordinary fire activity, 67 fires from September 12 to 17. 22 of these fires started at night when it was known that they couldn't operate the air media, most of the large forest fires of more than 500 hectares have these characteristics. And also fires with various lights. So we have to keep investigating and we have to end this incendiary lacre. And I want to thank the environmental agents of the Galician Union who are doing these research and also the state's security forces and bodies, because during this strike they were able to stop 4 people, 3 of them caught on site and we have already taken over 50 this year. I want to end by clearly telling those incendiaries that they will respond to these crimes with imprisonment and their property, they will pay for the expenses of extinction. [[Applause]] And I would also like to ask the citizen the awareness that we all require to end this scourge, because sooner and later these criminals will be convicted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u169	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Armada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u170	Thank you very much, Counselor. First of all, I'd like to congratulate the two pilots who ended up extinguishing the fires in Jurés, and recently we knew the news that one of them died this week. Of course, the firecracker also pushes us to express thanks for those services that the Lord cited as firefighting advisor, both the autonomics, the locals, the nationals, as well as the state's security forces and bodies, but not to mention the invaluable collaboration of the neighbors, those who live in the territory and suffer directly. They were difficult and complex those days and many people put their lives at risk. To our gratitude. We strongly and strongly condemn all those who have in some way provoked forest fires, for us they have no other consideration than criminals. We certainly know how difficult it is to articulate policies that balance extinction with prevention. No one has proved infallible in handling these fires, even having government responsibilities. It's not an easy fight or much less and we need the maximum involvement of all. Society, the Greek people demand answers to this problem and the best thing to find them is to make a real, clear and reliable diagnosis through research. Counsellor, we ask you to be ambitious in the resolution of this scourge by articulating how you are doing all kinds of measures that lead to us ending once and for all with the elimination of these criminals...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u171	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u172	...of all these causes and, of course,...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u173	Thank you, Mr. Armada, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u174	...to preserve the most...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u175	Thanks, time's up. [[Applause]] Replica, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u176	Counselor, we're talking about abandonment, we're talking about land that bleeds to ashes and land through rivers and streams. In the last 5 years according to the Pradiga, Santalla de Montes 72 fires, 1,846 hectares burned; Pentes, the Gudina, 41 fires, 256 hectares; [...] Vilarino de Conso, 20 fires, 4,861 hectares and so on, without counting this year. We have a problem and it's abandonment and we have some culprits who are you and your indolence and incompetence. That's so clear. Do we know the causes of repetitive fires? Because a fire when it repeats year after year there's a cause that we have to investigate and cut, it's not only who sets the fire, it's the conditions where it sets the fire, why it sets the fire? Yes, yes, sometimes it can be pasture, sometimes it can be hunting, other times it can be any reason, but you have to cut it off because we're losing money. Do you know what the group of experts on district committees said? Do you know what it's about? If we meet all the sectors involved and make a diagnosis of why it burns, why do we feel the Qualedro every year? Why do we hear every year about Jurés? Why, Counselor? The forest policy of the PP is condemned in the words of President Feijóo: The intent of the fires in Galicia is a classic. Pathetic. He's desperate. They therefore refuse to give it a solution, they refuse to implement forest, agricultural, environmental and rural population recovery policies. It's incompetence, it's indolence or it's bad faith. Or maybe something worse than the most disgusting business, but that's for another debate. By the way, the liquidation of Seaga brigades for track management, instead of private contracts, is now. From 140 to 180 euros per worker and day, more expensive. Whose business is it, Counselor? And we're going to the consensus...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u177	Thank you, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u178	You...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u179	Thank you, your time is up. Thank you. [[Applause]] Close this accumulated question, Middle Rural Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am again obliged to reiterate what I believe is a serious disrespect. I think it is nothing considered to be coming to this House today by twisting reality and, above all, Mr Rivas, - and allowing me the simil - to play with the ear. By the way, if we're talking about numbers, we're talking about the 120,000 hectares that burned down in Galicia during that wonderful four-year period that was ruled by the Bipartite and the Rural Council, Mr. Suárez Canal. 120,000 acres, 120,000. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They knew perfectly well how to solve it, 120,000. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Well, Mr. President, I am not going to talk but that here it is said that there were PP mayors who had to deal with those 120,000 hectares seems to me to be an absolute disrespect.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u181	Mr. Rivas, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u182	Look beyond the endemic problem of fires in our community is necessary — I repeat again — to highlight the express recognition of the entire forest fire prevention and defence device. Moreover, in that recognition we have to sink without any doubt and we can talk to you about consensus, of course, Mr Rivas, if you like, we have to talk about research. We need to empower and strengthen those research brigades. But we've started this path with technological means, it can be a posture that you don't share from putting more human means, we talk and we bet on technology, we put on those people who are talking about, on those environmental agents who are dedicated to research, we put drones, we put on video cameras that are giving very good results and we also put on the best technology right now, with computer equipment that will allow us to greatly enhance research. This is one for me of the main issues in which we have to work together with the forces and bodies of security. But I want to make an express recognition to those environmental agents who are on the territory and who know more naturally and closely the possible incendiary behaviors. Look, the incendiary activity in our community here was no lightning, there were no natural issues, here there was a clearly visible intentional activity. 67 fires as I told you, of which 22 were in slots where it was impossible to act in the air. And besides, as you well said, I don't understand your argument to give this Middle Rural Counsellor to this government, in parishes declared of high incendiary intensity. That believes what we're saying about that incendiary behavior. In particular, 12 of the 67s, they started in these parishes that you mentioned very well, high-intensity incendiary parishes. But beyond the magnificent extinction service we have in Galicia, all human efforts and materials invested in defending our mountains, we continue to heed those recommendations of the parliamentary commission's dictation. You've been in it and though you've voted against it you know it's going well. Let's also follow the recommendations of the expert group such as the ground cargo planes we've put last year in line with their recommendations. We work there that is what we are doing, we work as I told you earlier with the prevention plan and also with the agreement that we signed with Fegamp following those recommendations and therefore we ask to continue like this. Of course, what is intolerable for us is that people who risk their lives in this way are questioned in order to guarantee our security and our property. It is also intolerable for us that this speech, Mr Rivas, — if you do what I am going to tell you — transcends society, and that there are episodes like what I lived in Vilarino de Conxo, where there were groups of citizens, — those of course I apologize — who have come to tell me that the extinction service did not want to put out the fires. Politicians cannot collaborate to promote this speech with our disunity. It is intolerable, Mr Rivas, and gentlemen of the Socialist Party that there are Greek political representatives who speak of forest fires without first recognition, the work of the extinction device or without condemning the incendiary behaviors just by making politics. But how can we not condemn those incendiary behaviors. It is necessary to move the real reality, close to the functioning of the service to avoid such regrettable situations. And look, we reinforced service, but with money, with facts. We incorporated, as I told you, the staff of the Seaga public enterprise, we doubled the working time of the staff did, discontinuously. But let's see, 12 million euros from Chapter I, don't you think it's enough effort to give that staff continuity? And we're still investing in the service, and we're going to continue, of course, because we have to take it where we all want it to be to strengthen, if it fits more, its magnificent work. We have that starting point, Mr Rivas, we have bridges, it is our obligation to move forward with regard to Greek citizenship on this issue, to establish agreements between the political forces and to stop focusing on a difficulty of these dimensions as a mere partisan debate. Let's make every effort to fight against forest fires and look for suitable structural solutions. This collaboration must come through agreements, agreements, direct support for the adoption of mechanisms to prepare our territory, which is the structural solution. I beg you to take into account that the law of recovery and the value of Galician agricultural land is going to apply discontinuities in the territory for prevention reasons. But I'm not going to end this intervention by doing what I did in the first one, by pretending to be the main agent causing the fires in Galicia and again appealing to everyone's responsibility and to denounce these criminals. We have to work by putting all the technology and the human resources possible and besides, we preach the collaboration of all citizenship. They will allow me to finish, of course, as I always do when I talk about fires saying that we have an anonymous, confidential and free phone that is 900815085 to denounce all the incendiary behaviors, because the crimes of the incendiary can't stand under any impunity. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u183	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Da Rosana Pérez Fernández and two other Members, by G. P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the consideration by the Greek Government of the possibility of reinvesting in the seafood sector itself the part which may remain unadjudicated of the budget for the call for aid from the Sea Council published in Order of 4 August 2020
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u184	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Counselor. First of all, in my first intervention in this Chamber, I wish you on behalf of the Galician Nationalist Block many successes in your work for the next four years. Successes, your successes, Counsellor, will be very welcome in an area that is obviously very in need of actions that favor you. Ladies and gentlemen, the sea sector in Galicia suffered during the state of alarm a very complicated situation. In the case of Marisqueo the billing fell to 77%. And not at the same time that fall, it was not considered sufficient by the competent administrations to suspend its activity and thus avoid at least part of the economic decline in the sector due to the pandemic. Nor was it considered a sector likely to lower or freeze its share of social security. In spite of all the obstacles, the fish and the seafood continued to reach the shores and the markets were not wasted at any time. The German Government in the face of the aid that had been so inadequate, called by the State Government, soon requested literally, that access to the aid had been simplified and regretted that there was no further support for the sector by the state government. Well, in spite of those demands, other administrations, the Galician, the Councillory of the Sea, summoned their own aid to the seafood sector with the same or larger ones, though those who had been so critical. He called them late, very late, on August 4th, and certainly, from our point of view, with conditions of access that seem to be thought out, precisely for them to access, the less professional than the better. We understand that the more than 5,200,000 intended for these Council's aid will be left to a large extent unimplemented, and the dismal announcements of the Council will remain in that, in mere propaganda. And there is not the sector as if not to take advantage of all of it and each of the euro for it. That is why we want to know, Counsellor, whether you are willing to reinvest in the seafood sector itself, which has so many needs that it remains without granting that aid order, which is worth more than EUR 5.2 million.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u185	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez Fernández. Reply from the sea councilwoman Rosa María Quintana Carballo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u186	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Pérez, allow me first of all to thank you for your words. The truth is, the only thing I want in my daily work is to succeed in the decisions I have to make because I know that when I succeed in those decisions will be the future of the fishing marine sector in Galicia. As for the question that you make me concrete, I want to make a clear statement to you, and the answer is that yes, and that is that yes with clarity and no more manipulation, and that is that yes for two fundamental reasons, the first one, because since minute 1 from 16 March, we have been working very hard and very steadily to convince the European authorities that it was necessary to enable the European Maritime Fund to fish so that the foot-and-mouthed marishers too could have access to these aids. But also, the second reason is that once we have convinced the European Union the very destination of the money contained in the European Maritime Fund for Fisheries must be that, the fishing marine sector and within it the different sub-sectors such as seafood, taking into account the purposes and objectives set out in Articles 5 and 6 of that Regulation. But there is also a further proof of the criticism of this statement that I have just made, and it is the approval in the last fishing commission of the cool of the legal obligation to spend in the sector the money from the sectoral fund for those who have been asked for support. But you did a series of killings in your intervention which I would like to clarify. One is that we understand for help, that it was done from the central government and that it was done from the Galician board. It is true that you accuse us that we are late for our aid order and that others have moved forward. Look, the supposed aids that have been collected by some seamstresses as a result of the monthly contribution to the special sea regime, are not aids, they're benefits, they're entitled because that's exactly what they do every month. And that's what we asked the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food for one minute and the Ministry of Health for declaring that shellfish was not an essential activity since its marketing channel was closed, and we therefore asked for the cessation of activity to be declared. What did not happen, which they had to tell you, directly from the IEGM to the sector itself that I was not competent to declare this cessation of activity and the August 4 order could not be published before because it was necessary and necessary that the state had previously published the Royal Decree to amend the European programme so that we could receive the possibility of making such aid. But we did the aid order and the money is there for everyone, besides having to fight for them to consider...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u187	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u188	...that was not enough 50 euros but an average of 90 euros [] to clarify these...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u189	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Pérez Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u190	Thank you, Mr. President. Counselor, I'm very grateful that you told me today, so far you didn't know the clear difference between benefits and benefits. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] We want, Counselor, you generally don't just say it by your advice, they have the habit of throwing balloons out, when it's not against the central gob3ene, which is ultimately very legitimate, of course, we criticize it when it comes to criticism, because it's against the sector itself, or it's against any other agent, but you don't seem to have the fault of anything at all. And look, Counselor, it turns out that the conditions laid down in the Order of August 4 of the Council of the Sea are established by the Council of the Sea. These conditions have been established by you. And first of all, I'm not going to mention any more incompatibilities, because of course, these kinds of incompatibilities are usually common with other aids. Now, the condition, for example, of being in a high position in the special regime of the social security of seafarers at the time of the application and during the monitoring of the operating permit by 2020, is absolutely conceivable if you talk to any seafarer. It's practically impossible that they actually don't have a discharge period. If you have a small downtime or a large down time period you cannot access it. But besides, it's you from the Council of the Sea who set the average, exactly the days of activity to do the calculation. And they establish and talk about it also with the confrries in the different areas they set up an average of working days because especially low, which is very difficult to access from much of the confrries or people who integrate shellfish to these confrries it's very difficult to access those aids. Therefore, Counsellor, I thank you, I insist on your explanation of the principle, but I would also very much like you to assume your own responsibilities, and it was consistent with what you said in the Official Journal of Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u191	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez Fernández. Your time is up. Close this question, Counselor of the Sea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u192	Yes, Mr. President, thank you very much. Mrs. Pérez, look, I've never been to throw balloons out, I take my consequences and my decisions, but I don't want to give you a major lesson here, but you have to understand that the European Maritime Fisheries Fund is based on a regulation that is adopted by the 27 member countries and is that regulation that sets the conditions. I'm not the one saying that in the previous two years, you've had to work 120 days, that's what the regulation says, and so it's also collected in the order of temporary arrest aid published by the state. Then I can't make any changes. On the other hand, on the ground or not on the ground. Don't confuse people, one thing is being medically low, and the seamstresses have the right to be under medically low and to charge for these aids and the other thing is being out of business. It's logical to think that you won't be able to help the seamstresses who are down in activity, the logic is that the aid is for the seamstresses who are up in activity. Those are the two questions that you referred to me. I tell you more, that we fought in Brussels to get funds, and we as an autonomous community assume the co-financing of that money that comes from Brussels because the state has set aside and has not contributed a penny to co-finance the aid of the mariners, too, I have to say, that this will that you show here to defend the seafood sector hopefully also transfer to their groups representatives from Brussels. Because the Green Group in which you are integrated was the only one who refused to make amends to include the watermelons on foot because he understood that with [] they already had enough of the shellfishers. So, my commitment to the Marquesqueo to see him believed in more than 30 years of work at the Sea Council and I will continue to believe him and I will continue to fight for them, as I have done throughout this pandemic, since March 16th, when I began to ask the State to have consideration and to know what the Marsqueo is on foot, who knew that people who worked on the boats could develop their work despite the precarious situation they were in, despite reaching the farthest and not having enough price for that fish that they bring every day to the ground, so that we wouldn't lack food. [[Applause]] But to ask the maricadores to be declared essential activity, knowing that most of their work was destined for the marketing channel that was closed, it seemed totally unfair and so I will always say, and that's why I'll always defend the work of these women and I'll look for all possible help lines this year and the following year as well. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-09-23-DSPG006.u193	Thank you, Counselor. Before I finish the session, I'd like to comment to you — please it's only a second, I won't entertain you much more —... Thank you for the session development, it was very good to be the first one, let's keep it that way. And within that, I'd like to make a request. We have considered the regulation — and I am telling all Members and Members — that there are no photos or recordings within the Chamber. And please ask them to buy this. I'm not going to be the detective I'm looking at who does and who doesn't, no, I'm going to have to act afterwards—cause I don't want to. But I also ask you for everyone's sake because the photos -- actually, I'm telling you about the experience I've been here, which I'm the most veteran -- bear the devil, so we escape from making recordings and photographs here because I know what's going on, and the experience has it from past legislatures. Please, let's do this. Nothing else, please. Thank you very much.
