ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, so we do not proceed to its reading. They justified inassisted and voting delegation Don Marina Ortega, who does it in Mr Gonzalo Caballero Miguez, and Ms María Sol Díaz Mouteira and Ms Ángeles Vázquez Mejuto, who do it in Mr Pedro Puy. Both delegations were authorized by the Bureau at yesterday's meeting. And we're on the agenda. Accumulation of two requests for the creation of a commission of inquiry for its joint debate The G.P. Members and the Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, to analyze the economic and financial evolution of the old savings boxes and the causes and responsibilities of its transformation into banks, including the millions of compensations of its former directors, in order to complete the work carried out in the IX legislature and resumed without conclusion in the X legislature The G.P. Members and the Members of the G.P. Galician people, to analyze and evaluate the economic-financial evolution of the old savings boxes and the causes and responsibilities of their transformation into banks, including the millionaire compensations of their former directors, in order to complete the work carried out in the IX and X legislation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u2	Therefore, in order to proceed to the debate on the request to set up this committee of inquiry, the proposed groups begin. First of all, you have the floor for the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u3	Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, they say that an image is worth more than a thousand words, and that's exactly why I wanted to start this intervention today with an image. I am former CEO of Caixa Galicia, José Luis Méndez, former president of Caixanova, José Luis Fernández Gayoso, is also former president of Caixa Galicia, Mauro Varela, and former CEO of Caixavigo, José Luis Pego. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo shows a photograph.]] If you look, there's one person in the middle; I don't know if they're able to recognize her, ten years have passed from this picture, but I'm sure many and many are able to know who she is. Yes, it's Alberto Núñez Feijóo. And I don't know if they know they're celebrating, because this day they didn't just shake hands, they also toasted, because there was an agreement for the merger of the boxes. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo shows a photograph.]] And I think it's important that we remember this picture, because it has a lot to do with the debate we're having today; in fact, some of the tops responsible we have to investigate are here in this picture. But this image also shows the denialism of the president of the board, that last week came to tell us something like that he had no responsibility for the fissile fusion of savings boxes. [[Applause]] And we have to say that this seems to us to be an exercise of scaptism, but it is also a sample of weakness on the part of Alberto Núñez Feijóo. If Mr. Feijóo had a calm conscience regarding the merger of the boxes, he wouldn't be circumventing his responsibility, as he did last week in connection with that car of the National Audience, but he wouldn't have obstructed the investigation into the entire process of merging the boxes. And we're very clear that only someone who has something to hide prevents him from investigating. It is also true — and it has to be said here — that, in democratic terms, it is a shame that, ten years after the merger of the boxes, nine years after their nationalization by FROB, seven years after a terrible sale, in which Banesco did a great business, but all of the Greeks and Galicians a bad business, we have to bring the debate to establish a commission of investigation to know the truth, the truth that our boxes were ruined, the truth that the government of Rajoy failed to merge, the truth why they shielded the executives to collect damages that Justice itself declared illegal, or, also, the truth of which were the real reasons why Rajoy's government had failed, when there was no legal provision that claimed it, put in place a sale of Novagalia Bank that ended up being a ruin, because injecting nine billion euros of all and, nine billion euros of public money to save an asset, nobody's money and credit. Why is it made with the heritage of all the Greeks and the Greeks? [[Applause]] And these are, of course, the questions that deserve answers, and we hope that the vetoes and lies or excuses that the People's Party has been making for these ten years will end in this legislation. Because precisely I think that at a time like this, even though the logical thing would have been that this commission had done its work in time and form, it is also important to know what mistakes were made in other crises. And I'm saying this because at least since BNG we've made it very clear that one of the major errors in the 2008 crisis was saving the bank and letting most of the people, most of them social, with cuts that we're still suffering from. And we don't want that mistake repeated in this crisis of coward-19, but now we're seeing that some of them want to go that way, that they want to save the multinationals and the Ibex 35 and not the small and medium-sized company, the autonomous and the people who are going wrong right now. [[Applause]] And it's a terrible irresponsibility, and it's important to recognize mistakes so as not to commit them again in the future. And we've made it clear that there are two plans that need to be investigated. The first, the political management of this whole process, since the boxes were allowed to deviate from their target to the end point that is that ruinous sale to a Venezuelan businessman in Novagalicia Banco by the Rajoy Government. And the second question is also to go to the way all the management was done by the cashier and also those compensations that were a real capital scandal. And I want to remind you here in this chamber that those compensations were weakened precisely in the extra time that with a law they passed between the People's Party and the Socialist Party allowed them to shield the ex-directors in those boxes. BNG denounced him in his own time. [[Applause]] And we certainly believe and hope that this time the third time will be overdue. I'm very clear that if Alberto Núñez Feijóo had a calm conscience and he had nothing to hide, he would not take ten years in practice by hijacking this investigation commission and doing something to say -- I don't know, at least he seems to me -- which is perverse and machiavel, which is to create an investigation commission so he won't investigate. I, at least, think it would be much cleaner than the People's Party was clear: either he wants to investigate or he doesn't want to investigate, but it's just that creating research committees so they don't investigate is a fraud we hope that this legislation won't happen. Because we have made it clear that we owe the Greeks and the Greeks the truth, because the loss of the boxes has been the greatest collective scam of Galicia in recent years. [[Applause]] Let's look: we invested nine billion public euros and what we have left was an economic and social disaster, because the size of the loss of the boxes is very strong for our country. We have lost thousands of jobs, we have many municipalities today with financial exclusion, we have also lost a rich cultural heritage that had accumulated our boxes, and in addition, we have sharpened the policies of the Greek economy, and today we have a level of banking concentration that is tremendously worrying, which is making it difficult to access credit to many of the small and medium-sized enterprises in our country, but which is also allowing abusive commissions to be launched that we are going to continue to denounce, because the Greeks and the Greeks don't deserve that. [[Applause]] And we have also made it clear that in the management of everything that had to do with the boxes nothing is neutral and that obviously many of the decisions that were made were political decisions in which ideology was behind them. The 2008 crisis was caused by the deregulation of the financial sector and also by the presence of banking entities that were so large that they could not be allowed to fall. But the political decisions that were taken later, instead of learning from these mistakes, what they did was go in the opposite direction: more banking concentration, more centralization of financial power in Madrid and a process in which it clearly wanted to go to the privatization of boxes. And that's all we have to see is the laws that the Socialist Party and the People's Party have approved at the state level. And in the block we had clear that there was a design for Galicia to run out of boxes, and to avoid it, we, from the very first moment, put initiatives on the table. The first, a law that would allow to save the Greek boxes. And it is true that there was unanimity in this chamber at first to shield the boxes, to democratize them, to work for Galicia, but also to prevent them from becoming personal feuds. But it must also be said that these consensus was broken by the Socialist Party and the People's Party, because at the state level both political forces agreed on the design that led to the disappearance of autonomous competences over the boxes and the boxes themselves. And there we have the portraits of those agreements. There is the agreement between Zapatero and Rajoy to modify LORCA, there is this appeal against the Greek law, there is also that law adopted in the Greek Parliament — with the votes in favour of the PP and the PSOE — to shield Gaius and Méndez in the boxes, who wanted to spin the merger and who used that extra time to put those multimillionaire compensations that scandalized us all and all. And I want to remind you here today — because it is necessary to remember — that this fusion process that has been evaluated was the vote in favour of the People's Party and the Socialist Party and that the BNG abstained at that time, because we were already saying that this was not the merger that was going to secure the Greek boxes. And the time, unfortunately, saw that this situation ended up leading to the disappearance of our financial fabric. And we really believe that such a fact cannot be unpunished and that political responsibilities must be settled where it is logical, in parliaments; criminal responsibilities, in the courts; political responsibilities, in Parliament. [[Applause]] And there's a lot to investigate. We want to know what happened to this famous KPMG audit, which was first audit, then it wasn't; first it was saying it was evaluating the merger, then it was said that it wasn't evaluating it, and we still don't know it in this parliament. One million public euros from the Greeks and the Greeks were paid and we want to know about that audit. [[Applause]] We want to know what the real state of health of the boxes was, because there are judgments that say things very different from those that put the boxes in their papers. We want to investigate operations that we denounce in this parliament, some, for example, that linked — according to documentation that this chamber has — the family of the former president, the former director general of Caixa Galicia, José Luis Méndez López, in which it was said that it was made with cash assets during the time that it was taking the merger forward for a lower price than it had taxed the Box itself. Or we also know that FROB has detected irregular operations in Novacaxagalicia coming from the box activity and carried out at the time of restructuring...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u4	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u5	...estimating a prejudgment of a hundred and seventy million euros for the entities. Of course, we think that a fact as serious as the disappearance of the boxes, allocates nine billion euros public to save them and that all this was now a huge fiasco for this country deserves to be investigated. And we believe that what we can't see is that we can't see a very serious fact again: that we believe research committees that don't investigate. We, of course, want to go to the end, and we hope that the People's Party will not again put the right of the Greeks and Greeks to know the truth about the boxes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u7	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. The Galician People's Party, the People's Parliamentary Group calls for the House's research committee to be reactivated; in addition, I have already told the Presidency and I thank the other House groups for allowing us to go through the event of having to vote on two committees with the same objective. There is an agreement between the groups to submit to the House a single commission of inquiry that resumes the many works done in past legislation, the many documentation that remains still in this chamber, and that allows the completion of these works, basically the elaboration of the dictation. And we do it for three reasons, two positives and one kind of preventing or avoiding some risks. The first reason — and I believe that all of us who have participated in Galicia's political and economic life in recent years are aware — is the importance and importance of this issue. There was a financial crisis, with an epicenter in the United States and which spread all over the world, in the years 2007 and 2008 — Spain arrived later — but from 2009 we lived in Spain, as we had lived in other countries before, a process of transformation and bank restructuring very deeply, in the case of Spain driven by the Ministry of Economy and the Bank of Spain in 2009. Just a month and I peak after the People's Party, presided over by Alberto Núñez Feijóo, had won the elections that year, a little more than a month later, the Presidency of the Board published simply the Order of the Bank Restructuring Fund, the so-called FROB I — I insist, a month and it peaks after arriving at the Government. The Banco de España informs Junta and Banco de España — and not the former cabinet of Junta — of the following two questions: the first, which had already been reported to the former Government — which did not pass that information on arrival — and the second, that the two boxes were not viable alone and therefore had to undergo fusion processes. The reasons, basically, were the excessive expansion during the years 2005 to 2009, both the Greek and other boxes; more than 27% are basically outside the territory of Galicia — the average expansion of the boxes in Spain outside 16% at the same time. That the morbidity, which in Galicia was 2.4, in those areas where the boxes were expanded, was 8.9, that is, the triple. Thirdly, there was an increase in real estate credit that was 386%, just when the real estate bubble exploded, that is, multiplied by four mortgage credit in Caixagalcia and six Caixanova. And fourthly, a huge dependence on wholesale markets, because the deposit/credit ratio dropped by 78% — it was talking about the pre-crisis period in the years 2005 to 2009. From then on, in Spain, that at that time the President of the Government said — and some of us trusted what he was saying — that the Bank of Spain was exemplary and that the banking supervision system in Spain was one of the best in the world, from that solid system, what happened was that we ended by asking for financial aid to Europe to rescue our financial entities. It was done in several phases, and in the first phase it was: in which direction to merge? And there were different alternatives that didn't ask for a merger of the Greek entities in Galicia, but what they asked for was the integration of Caixagalicia into which it turned out to be Bankia, and it's still not well known what the fusion project was because it was never made public by the Caixanova directors. So there was a consensus, which was that we should maintain the yellowishness and not lose the management centers. But the consensus was also broken when we passed that law of boxes that allowed the merger, which I think wrongly Mrs. Pontón pointed out that it had been unanimously when it was not unanimously; it was precisely that bill that the PSOE did not vote and challenge the Constitutional Court, delaying the merger process. The case is that the merging process between the two Greek boxes was produced and was first believed by the report that the Board made before proposing that merger. Then, by a report by KPMG, which has been deposited with the Commission in this parliamentary headquarters for ten years - although it has just been said that it has not been known, for ten years in this house - and has even been distributed to the press failing to comply with the regulation by the leader of an earlier parliamentary group no longer present in this house. It was subsequently ratified by the audits they did on behalf of the financial entities themselves, the two previous boxes--Boston Consulting Price Waterhouse. It was ratified by the business plan that was prepared, also by the financial institutions, by Deloitte and Price. It was confirmed by the stress tests that the European Union did in July 2010. Their viability has been confirmed by the Ministry of Economics and Business in the report evaluating the merger. It was also evaluated by the report by the National Securities Market Commission. It was also evaluated by the authorisation of the European Commission which supervised this merger. And, finally — as it was no less — it was evaluated by the Banco de España, who said in a letter to the Conseilería de Fatenda — which is also in the documentation provided to this chamber: "The solvency, profitability and liquidity of the new entity and the operation will generate synergies by reduction of costs and economies of scale, with the consequent increase in efficiency and profitability"; notification by the Banco de España of 8 November 2010 — I insist — also deposited with the Commission. More than eight reports assessed that this was not only the best option for Galicia but it was a viable option. What happens is that there comes a second phase and Royal Decree 2/2011 -- FROB II -- reverses exactly the policy that has been made so far. A policy of sanitation becomes a policy of recapitalization, with which the entities that were advancing in the merger found that what they did was counterproductive in the face of the new regulation. It is true — as the Congress report says — that in addition to that moment there has been a new fall in the economy, the famous recovery in W, and that this has also made fusion difficult, and that is what leads to the adoption of that real decree. By means of this, we have discovered indecent millions of compensations, we have discovered the scandal of the preferences — which today are fortunately solved — the first by Justice, which handed down very exemplary judgments, by the way, with the Greek leaders but not with other directors in the same way. The topic of preference is solved, essentially by the arbitration that has driven the board and that some groups in this chamber said it was a mistake, too, one more of the ones that made the board. And today, after the capital injection and a auction — which is not a sale, as was also said quite incorrectly in the previous intervention — the fact is that Galicia has a bank domiciled in Galicia, which supports the old social work through a foundation that is mostly involved by the Greek public administrations, maintains employment rates above the alternatives that we would have to have extinguished in the first sign and maintains a business of proximity. [[Applause]] It is certainly not Galicia the worst community that had come out of the merger and bank transformation process. The second reason Mrs. Pontón exposed him; I agree with her. The operation was so important that it is appropriate to report to the Greek society and to inform all the public actors involved what the opinion of this chamber is, from the managers who came in and the regulators who also appeared to the political forces that we participate in that process — all those we participate in that process. And thirdly, I said we want to avoid a risk. Many years have passed, ten, a multitude of judgments and reports, starting with the Congress of Deputies, which would have to be nuanced: for Galicia. Justice has acted both in the field of management, both in the field of compensation, both in the field of preferences, responsibilities that have been imposed and that some — I insist — have paid with quite exemplary convictions. In spite of that, the least constructive part of the political debate seems to emerge every time there's a question that's settled and that makes the subject settled. Today, for example, some inaccuracies have been said, but the most striking thing is to interpret that simply a national hearing car on competition to judge one of those cases of the former managers that the Prosecutor's Office and FROB have denounced before the National Audience, that I think the National Audience correctly says that it is not the scope of the National Audience trial and that it must go to the Provincial Audience, if it becomes just contrary to what it is. What is a formal prosecution charge against former managers is apparently a demonstration of a supposed failure of the merger in Galicia, when it's just the opposite. It's one of the reasons why it was important to change the case management. [[Applause]] Well, just to avoid that -- let's say -- it fights...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u8	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u9	...for the record, we understand that it is good that the House did the facts, fixed them in time, fixed them with data —with the huge documentation existing in this chamber — and that we present a dictation. We will, of course, present ourselves with absolutely clean conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u10	Thank you, Mr. Puy. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The Parliamentary Group is not proposing, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Aranguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by telling you that for me it is the most curious thing to find me here talking about the creation of an investigation commission on the merger of the Greek savings registers, because I myself was, years before I entered politics, the author of the complaint that started the judicial process that ended in the conviction and imprisonment of five directors of the Greek cash registers on the subject of compensation, as it appears reflected in the car of initiation of litigation or opening of oral trial. [[Applause]] It was the first and only conviction of this kind that took place in our country, which is very indicative of the enormous peculiarities of this fusion process. And I say "enormous" peculiarities because it's true there were other merger processes of boxes in Spain, but it's completely false that what happened with the Greek boxes was the same thing that happened elsewhere, because this was a very different process. So different it includes Mr. Feijóo's photo with two of the five directors of the condemned Greek savings boxes, the first and only condemned in Spain, but it also includes nine thousand four hundred million euros of diffused public money in the air, i.e. the largest hole left by such an operation, three thousand seven hundred jobs less and the greatest ballat in Galician history. [[Applause]] And of the five convicted managers in 2017, two appear in Mr. Feijóo's photo celebrating the merger; that is to say, that fusion photo is one more of Mr. Feijó's photo collection with white gloves criminals, to which we could add the photo to Pemex's director arrested in Mexico by Operation Pemex, who Mr. Feijóo also coveted, or the famous photos with his other friend who was somewhat less white gloves but also trafficked with some white substance. By the way, this thing about Mr. Feijóo's pictures with people who end up in prison is so remarkable that even anyone thinks taking pictures with Mr. Feijóo is already a high-risk sport. And in that picture, Mr. Feijóo was celebrating a merger by which he was betting himself and that he was affixing himself like no one, a merger that said he was going to maintain the Welshness and solvency of our financial entities, public because they were then public. Remember that Mr. Feijóo gave with a smile for fusion and charged a special pen to sign the birth of the new entity, a pen of the Montblanc brand charged for the occasion; he did not, like me, worth a blue boli Bic, because Mr. Feijóo has expensive tastes; and Mr. Feijóo came to ensure that he would keep that pen Montblanc in the official archive of the Greek Government as a legacy that, if Galicia wanted, Galicia could — he said — be told. How nice and so sweet! But the merger of the Greek boxes didn't maintain solvency, because the hole of EUR 9 billion is so big that it reaches Australia, it doesn't keep the cookie, since the resulting bank, Abanca, is today in the hands of a very respectable private businessman, who can sell it tomorrow even to any resident investor anywhere in the world. And while this lawyer, who was then not a politician, filed a particular complaint for those millionaire awards that ended with a two-year prison sentence and the obligation to return 10.5 million euros, the Galician Union, instead of denouncing or sanctioning, as was its obligation, he was looking to the other side and the BNG made, from the political point of view — said to be with the utmost respect — of useful nonsense of a disastrous fusion, sponsored by Mr Feijóo, who applauded with the ears, with the ears, by the mere fact that, as they are in the economic world, this merger for them kept the Galicianness of the resulting entity. An absolutely misleading appearance, when by that time the mayor of Vigo, Abel Caballero, who would say anyone had a crystal ball, said that fusion was a massive deception and the PSdEG kept huge repairs on that merger, despite the fact that we were told, among other things, that a supposed KPMG audit would assess it; an audit we know today that it was neither audit nor assess anything, and by the way, it does not appear in its integrity. See if in the third commission, Mr. Puy, it goes to defeat and facilitate, as the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia says they have to do, an audit that cost one million euros and served as an alibi of that massive deception, when on January 20, 2010 the Board said in a press release that the external audit commissioned by the Galician Union to KPMG assesses the solvency of the fusion of the Galician boxes: the union of Caixagalicia and Caixanova is solvent, is the formula that guarantees Galicianness and is technically evaluated; a burst of lies satar and the rhythm of botafumaire. And surely Mr. Puy will continue to say that the fault was with the Bipartite, the Banco de España, the international economic situation, the meteorology, Zapatero and the chachachacha, but I would like to remind you that the insolvency of the Galician boxes was not the result of a legislative or a specific period, not a huge hole of ten billion euros in four years, but that it was the result of a way of doing business and economic policy in Galicia characterized for decades by opacity, nepotism, favoritism, the capitalism of friends, the sale of smoke on the industrial scale and the capitalization of some financial entities that were all and each of the Galicians and the Galicians and that had a public character that was lost in Galicia thanks to you, but that you are maintaining, by course, to a good extent in other autonomous communities, such as Aragon, with Ibercaja, or Andalusia, with Unicaja Bank, or Liberbank or Kutxabank, all the resulting banks of the cash exchange, all of the resulting cash exchange. [[Applause]] Because, the difference between Galicia, Madrid, Aragon, Andalusia and Basque Country, not to mention the Catalan case, which is very unique, were able to keep to a good extent the public character of its entities, in addition to solvency. Not in Galicia, though Mr. Feijóo called the entity resulting from the merger "promising financial creature"; "promising financial creature" said Mr. Feijóo. And the truth is, being the fusion a real ruin for citizenship and for the public archives, Mr. Feijóo was right that he was enormously promising for those who did the business of the century by buying Abanca, a clean and sanated entity after those tens of four hundred million euros of public money that had to be injected with him. So promising was that the year after the acquisition by Banesco, the new bank, Abanca, obtained a profit of a thousand hundred and sixty million euros. In a year the buyer had amortized the investment and had a new bank and completely sanitized the cost of the public era. The biggest ballad in Galician history, completed when in the first six years of its activity, at the end of last year, Abanca had already obtained more than three billion euros of benefit. For you to understand, the business of Abanca consisted of investing a billion euros that turned into those thousand plus three billion profits, that is, four billion euros in six years, 26% of annual composite profitability, the never seen, the business of the century for a private investor at the expense of our cash and the public era, thanks to the lords of the People's Party of Galicia. And before Mr. Puy tells us, or after that, that the blame was on any less than the godfather, the promoter, the propagandist and the maker of the merger, that Mr. Feijóo was, everyone knows — let me remind you — the powers that the Government of Galicia had, the Council of Galicia, in the matter of monitoring and controlling the yellow boxes, that they were impunityly handled for decades, because they were too many. Among them, according to the consolidated text of the Galician Cash Act: it will exercise the inspection functions of the savings boxes domiciled in Galicia, it will exercise sanctioning power; two examples of a Greek law which is plagued with competences and powers and obligations which the Galician Union had with respect to the Greek Boxes. Obviously, in coordination with those of the Banco de España, but he had no less the Junta de Galicia, but in fact he had more than the Banco de España, so they passed governors of all political colors, and the yellow boxes were handled all that time with the total aquiescence and complicity of Galician PP. By the way, the BNG had a great deal of representation on the management boards of the yellow boxes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And, at the end of this mangrove, the fusion and subsequent breakdown of the yellow boxes liquidated three thousand seven hundred jobs, that is, about half of those who had Caixagalicia and Caixanova. To finish, this is a case of bad financial management, of bad economic management and of bad political management, culminating in the biggest economic ballat in our history, going through the compensation episode, which, instead of being denounced by the Board as the case supervisor, had to be denounced by this particular person who speaks to them today. A case that must be investigated once and for all, the difference between the previous two. Galicia deserves the PP to allow the research commission to develop its work and not turn it into a paripé and a simulation to deceive citizenship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u12	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica, requesting group, Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u13	I have to say that I listened to Mr. Puy and I'm going to stay with a sentence of him: he says this is such an important operation that we have to investigate it, ten years later. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I don't know if they've fallen off the horse now on the road to Damascus or if they've just had a revelation. [[Applause]] Why don't we investigate before? And of course, Mr. Puy — you know perfectly well — we did not investigate because the People's Party prevented that commission from working. He told us — I think it was in the debate of the previous Mr Puy here — that he wanted to cool the debate. I don't know if ten years in the freezer makes the temperature you have today's cashier tastes like the People's Party. [[Applause]] And I also think there are some issues that need to be clarified, of course. Mr. Puy's story makes everyone less responsible than he was in the middle of that picture, which is Mr. Feijóo. Some responsibility will have Mr Feijóo and also the Banco de España, indeed, who valued a merger or who evaluated the cash statements knowing that it was all a great farce. And that's what we have to worry about. And of course, this parliament and the whole of Galician society have to know why the results of the processes around the boxes are different. Because it is not true that no one could keep his boxes; Euskadi can keep his boxes, for example, through Kutxabank, which depends on the old Basque box. If the result is different for Galicia, something will have to see the decisions or the failure of the Government of Feijóo in this area. [[Applause]] And -- I don't know -- Mr. Puy has as much as I think that nostalgia as a teacher and he always comes here telling us what we do right and what we do wrong, it's sometimes even teachers get wrong, Mr. Puy. Because look, this parliament doesn't know KPMG's audit, because if you're forty photocopied sheets, which are a powerpoint, it's cost Galician board a million euros, that's a big scam too. We know a photocopied powerpoint where some things have certainly been seen wrong. [[Applause]] We really want to know what that audit is or not auditing is, according to KPMG's own manager, not in this parliament but in the Congress of Deputies, which is the first thing we should certainly be ashamed that we don't even have that information. [[Applause]] I also want to remind you, because you told me that you had the wrong data, that you take it into account of the cash reform law that occurred unanimously in this parliament. Then others decided to break those consensuss, just as they decided to break the People's Party and the Socialist Party, Mr. Alangüena — the story is there for us to meet it — when they decided to change the Law of Boxes to shield these directors, precisely in the boxes, at that time they used to shield their compensations, and we don't know that the representatives of the Galician Union voted in that vote, because we want to know that the representatives who had Galician Union voted when those compensations were shielded, because it is a very important political debate. Why did PP and PSOE spare the ex-directors in the boxes -- yes, yes, the story is there for you to know it -- and of course why did they use that time for compensations that then Justice declared as illegal? [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Also, Mr Puy, the question is not what was the sale procedure of Novagalicia Banco, which actually went through a auction — we knew it, but it was sold. The key is why Mr. Rajoy decides, without any need, to sell the boxes in advance. Why does he do it, because that's the key. There was no requirement at that time for it to be sold. You could have gotten a much greater benefit for the State not to do so at that time, or going along the way that BNG defended, and that the State had stayed with that entity Novagalicia Banco as a public entity, systemic to Galicia, which allowed us to maintain our financial system. You'll know why they didn't want to. And that was done with Mr. Feijóo's approval. And if I may as well be allowed by the representative of the Socialist Party, with all affection, I think you must review the history. Because those who voted in favour of the merger of the boxes were the People's Party and the Socialist Party. I don't know if you were doing any useful nonsense, I don't know, of course the useful fool BNG of anyone and much less of the ex-directives of the boxes. [[Applause]] And I remind you that those who were on the board of directors of those boxes were, among others, Mar Barcón and Mr Moreda, not of course BNG militants. [[Applause]] Today, ladies and gentlemen, the Galician Parliament will approve, for the third time, the establishment of a case investigation commission. We do this because we believe we owe the whole society that this research commission is working on. I can see that Mr President's chair is still empty; if he had a good conscience, he would be in this debate today and give his face. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u15	Thank you, President. I alluded to in my first intervention, aside from the compulsory accountability, that what was an opportunity to establish facts, that are documented, and hence from there that each stick had assumed its responsibility. But at no time did I attribute responsibilities. And he strongly draws attention to the fact that there were just eight private, public reports from the Bank of Spain, the European Commission, the Ministry of Economics and Business, from the cash auditors, from the Board itself, that all those reports said the same and that, however, it seems to be blaming someone. Of course we assume responsibility for the merger. It's more: I think one of the factors that most reinforced the political idea that the PPdeG defends Galicia was precisely the battle we had to keep the boxes in Galicia and finally get them not to disappear into a bank. [[Applause]] And you can believe that responsibility for us, and we're even proud of it, because we fought very hard, among other things, against the Bank of Spain, which not all autonomous communities have been able to do. Mr. Aranguena seems to be willing to give us many works of glory here. You see the reaction of the Galician Nationalist Block. I obviously don't think it's time to remember things, but I suppose you know Mr. Abel Caballero, who is the mayor of Vigo, and he said -- and besides, he said it with great headlines and great fears -- that when you do the merger, Galicia's biggest decision in twenty years. "Vigo played, loaned, mobilized and won. The vote marks hegemony. Is the presidency and the CEO of Caixanova, the majority of the council and the management, the headquarters of the government in Vigo equal? This is how the Banco de España mandated. I mean, he won." And now you come here saying that it was the People's Party that... well! [[Applause]] By the way, for those, this is Vigo's mayor, but Coruña mayor, Mr. Javier Losada, said, "It's fake that Caixanova is more solvent. All the rumors fueled by Vigo since the beginning of the debate on the convenience of a merger of the two Galician entities were false" — or it is now government delegate. Well, we'll find out if we're at Mr. Losada's PSOE, at Mr. Caballero's PSOE, or at Mr. Aranguena's unpublished PSOE, which mixes a little bit of everything and today has not brought much—the truth is said. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Mrs Pontón, I tried to cool the debate. And I insist: KPMG's report has been on this committee for ten years. You say they're forty sheets made anyway. Well, that's what you say, obviously. But it was explained in the commission perfectly — and we will have an opportunity to review it — that at that time the Bank of Spain was putting some obstacle to a Welsh merger, that you were looking forward to as much as we were, a report was sent to an entity that had a series of conditions that made it the most interesting thing that had made that report to ratify the opinion of the Board. First, he did not work with either of the two boxes; therefore, he had no conflict of interest; and, according to — and most importantly — he was aware of the methodology applied by the Banco de España to authorize mergers because he had just advised the merger that had been made in Castela-Leon of financial entities, of the boxes of Castela-Leon. And a report was made that evaluated the previous information of the Board and that, as I said, it was subsequently ratified by all the reports that came behind, including that of the Bank of Spain, the Ministry of Economics or the European Commission and those of all the part auditors who prepared the merger project. [[Applause]] There's a clear difference between a auction and a sale, if we get into these details. They recall that when the auction comes out there are several applicants to acquire Galician financial activity, which had been refinanced to save the deposits of the Greeks — don't forget about it. No capitalist saved himself, saving the warehouses of the Greeks that were in the boxes. No shareholders have been saved from any fund or entity, saving the deposits of the Greeks. [[Applause]] Well, it was a auction and look at what he was offering what he finally won the auction and look at what the Spanish banks offered, who demanded the acquisition for zero euros by that entity. So it's not the same for sale, much less for a friend. Then you said you were going to go to a voyeur background; suddenly Banesco appeared and they were all surprised, and suddenly it had to be Banesco what seemed... at last these things. I will conclude, with great affection. The difference, Mrs. Pontón, is that I show you my affection for the two spokesmen who intervened. With all the affection of the spokespersons who intervened, the Board delivered thirty-four boxes with one hundred eighty-eight documents; we are talking about more than thirty thousand sheets, where all the important elements of the merger are. They looked at a work plan that we unanimously approved more than half a hundred people, among them people who would probably not appear today, like the governor of the Banco de España, like the European Commissioner...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u16	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u17	...of the CNMV, who was president of the CNMV. We have great information there and I believe that, indeed, the country needs to protect itself from these uncontextualized and manipulated statements that want to rewrite history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u18	Thank you, Mr. Puy. At the end of the debate, we proceeded to the vote. We vote. Voting of requests for commission of inquiry: — Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, to analyze the economic and financial evolution of the old savings boxes and the causes and responsibilities of its transformation into banks, including the millions of compensations of its former directors, in order to complete the work carried out in the IX legislature and resumed without conclusion in the X legislature. — Members of the G.P. Galician people, to analyze and evaluate the economic and financial evolution of the old savings boxes and the causes and responsibilities of their transformation into banks, including the millions of compensations from their ex-directors, in order to complete the work done in the IX and X legislation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. The voting is positive. The creation of this investigation committee is therefore approved. Institutional declaration
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u19	Before moving on to the next point, which is the point of appearance, I'm going to read out a statement that brings me to the groups, after an agreement they reached. It is an institutional statement on the occasion of the International Day for the Eradication of Poverty 2020. And he says, "On International Day for the Eradication of Poverty, the Galician Parliament and the honourable Members who represent the citizenship of Galicia want to reiterate our unanimous commitment to the need to continue to move forward in the fight against poverty and social exclusion, in which in 2019 there was 24.3% of the population of Galicia. We are aware that today this data is an optimistic aspiration. The new legislation begins with a health and social emergency that will impoverish thousands of Galicians and Greeks if there is no political and budgetary commitment from the Galician Union and the Councils and Deputies. We know that the health crisis of the coward-19 has affected and is affecting significantly people and families with the lowest incomes, with precarious jobs and low labour intensity and with other risk factors such as disability, single parenthood, male violence (especially through prostitution, trafficking or sexual exploitation), ethnicity, older or dependent people, rural populations, migrants or refugees. It's especially about women, youth, children and children. But the socio-economic impacts are not only seen in an intensification of the vulnerability of those people who have already found it before, but the surviving circumstances are leading to a serious risk of poverty to people who have not experienced it so far. We want to recognize once again the effort, solidarity and citizenship of Greek citizenship. In the worst years of the economic crisis and now in the emergency caused by the pandemic, we know of their vulnerability and fear of the situation. This example calls for us to continue to move forward in a social model in which no one is allowed to stand aside and where from the public authorities there is a guarantee of the fight against inequality, constitutional rights and social inclusion. We reiterate our commitment to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), assumed by the Spanish State and autonomous communities. In particular, with the first, in which it is established that "By 2030, to reduce by at least half the proportion of men, women and children of all ages living in poverty." Economic recovery has allowed for the recovery of policies and budgets from minimum incomes, social inclusion, employment or housing. We can't afford to stop our efforts to guarantee the right to a decent life for the Greeks and the Greeks. We believe that it is vital for Galicia's future demographics to avoid intergenerational transmission of poverty and that 80 percent of children and children living today in families in poverty are condemned to suffer for the rest of their lives, as well as their children and children. We want to bear in mind the demands of people in poverty, claimed under slogans such as "People First" or "We are people, not files": to fight against the causes of poverty and inequality from an optical distance from existentialism and to ensure social inclusion; commitment in budgets and planning in the medium and long term, and political and technical coordination between administrations and specialized organizations that drastically reduce bureaucracy. We commemorate this day when we attend the increase of interested discourses of hatred and contempt of the most vulnerable people, the phenomena of racism, xenophobia, machoism, LGTBIphobia or aporophobia (hate of people in poverty). But again we have to thank citizenship for its lesson in respect and tolerance so that these political speeches can only be present in our community. People don't blame their poverty. They're not children, they're not mothers and parents. Nor is the sound of their exclusion for persons with disabilities, migrants, refugees or the Roma community, girls and young people protected or persons deprived of their liberty. No one is to blame for their suffering. Women are not victims of violence, or sexual orientation or identity. No one is useless, whether young or unemployed, retired or found without home. They are all able to bring to growth the enrichment and cohesion of society. People who suffer and denounce these and many other lies or who claim that "the most dangerous of prejudices is when you believe them" are not alone. The public authorities have the responsibility to ensure the necessary measures to reduce social inequalities, to combat discrimination and to promote respect, tolerance and active participation of all people. We also have the commitment to disseminate and focus on positive experiences and on the majority examples of normalized harmony and coexistence, fighting against misinformation and avoiding the instrumentalization or distorted views of people living in a situation of social exclusion. Poverty and social exclusion are not fought individually. It is an objective that implies the whole of society, and it is our responsibility to contribute, from different areas, intensities and forms, to which we achieve it. On this International Day for the Eradication of Poverty, we make an appeal not to fall into the ignorance of prejudices and continue to advance in the urgent inclusion of people who are not on equal terms for the achievement of a dignified life. Santiago de Compostela, October 20, 2020." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u20	Now we continue with the agenda: point 2, of appearances. Mr. Advocate General of the Court of Justice, on his own request, to inform you of the general forecasts and lines of action of his department
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u21	Mr. Valeriano Martínez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u22	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I would like to make my own request to the German Parliament today to take account of the strategic lines of the Conseilerie d'affanda e Administración Pública for this legislation. Let me make my first words to express the affection and solidarity of the Greek Government with regard to the families that are suffering the effects of this terrible pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, today is October 20, and the normal one on a date like today, according to the usual budget cycle, would be that I was handing over to the House the Galician Budget Bill for the year 2021, something which for reasons other than this government, which I then exposed, was not possible. We wait at any rate to hand it over as soon as possible. Because, as you will understand, within the strategic lines of the Business Council and Public Administration Budgets are our highest priority of action. Allow me before I focus on the strategic lines to frame how we arrived at this moment. I myself appeared at the beginning of the previous legislation, in particular on April 4, 2017, to report on the priorities for a legislation that was characterized by continued growth and job creation for three and a half years, with positive rates in the main economic indicators, interrupted in a way never before due to the covid-19 pandemic. Until March of this year, the roadmap of the Government of Greece, with Strategic Plan 2015-2020, was not only being fulfilled, but was even getting over with average annual growths around 3% of GDP and with a job creation that exceeded the 90,000 jobs generated between 2015 and 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, I know perfectly well that the current situation has changed completely. But, as I will soon sink, that Galicia arrives at the pandemic with unique fortresses in Spain, it is essential first to endure uncertainties and subsequently to promote economic reactivation in order to try to recover growth and job creation as soon as possible. And among all the strengths of Galicia, maintaining political and institutional stability that we are reaffirming year by year is fundamental. It's fundamental because it has allowed us and it's allowing us to anticipate decisions, to come up with certainties at the moment of greater uncertainty and to generate confidence. Together with stability we have another very important strength: to face the economic crisis of the coronavirus in a more solid and solvent economic-financial situation, comparatively better than other communities, by meeting the objectives of budgetary stability in the past 2019. Although fiscal rules are now suspended, the fact that Galicia was one of Spain's most solvent communities, meeting the debt deficit limits, being the Community which has increased its debt in the last decade, in addition to being the Autonomy which paid its suppliers more quickly, also helps us to — as we will see below — be better placed than the Spanish package. And all of this as a crash in the year 2019 that the Central Government refused to transfer the autonomous finances of the pending EVD 2017 months for an amount of EUR 204 million. A suit claimed on multiple occasions in this parliament, which is already judicially claimed and to which we do not give up. In addition, the Central Government continues to refuse to transfer Galicia EUR 170 million for its good fiscal performance in the 2017 and 2018 financial years. In total, the central government owes Galicia EUR 370 million, to which this government — I insist — will not give up. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia's rigor and solvency, maintained continuously over the last decade, I believe that they are a unique reputation heritage in Spain. It is the Galician brand that recognizes us year by year and exercises the exercise of all the economic operators we interact with and even with the rest of autonomous communities in multilateral forums. As I told you, to face a situation as complicated as the current one, this reputational heritage, this solvency and rigour are very important, because the fact that Galicia is carrying out an accelerated process of fiscal consolidation allows the Government of Greece to now be able to use all the financial potential to address the socio-health crisis and in parallel and simultaneously, while we live with the pandemic, to address the economic and social crisis as well. In the present setting, we understand that the right thing is to mobilize in a coordinated manner all the public resources that we have from the administrations, from the European Union to the local government, which has important remnants. From Galicia we must use the rigorous management of public finances and the least indebtedness to support strategic projects for the country. Since the beginning of the pandemic — straight — this good situation has allowed us to take quick measures and equip ourselves with liquidity, in order to help the families and businesses of Greece at a time of a sudden fall in their income, with such important measures — and I will only mention one — as to evaluating with 1,500 euros the advance of workers with an authorised ERA and who have not yet charged the provision of the central government. [[Applause]] And without a continuity solution, already in early June, we have approved a Plan of Economic Reactivation and dynamisation to mobilise something more than three billion euros, in line with the Committee of Economic Experts that we set up to try to minimize the impact of the crisis and to cope with economic recovery. We want to take the initiative to reactivate the Greek economy immediately after the toughest months of the coward-19 and we've crafted a financial framework to make priority projects viable. Of this total of more than three billion euros, more than one thousand seven hundred are public resources and something more than one thousand three hundred mobilization of resources, especially private. We are looking for a plan to re-order and mobilize resources that would enable the priorities of the Greek economy to be implemented at the moment and to be able to develop the necessary sectoral measures. And we did it through four elements: Firstly, by rearranging and prioritizing the budget for EUR 828 million, taking advantage of the budgetary margin we had to have more resources. One hundred and fifty-one million between what was the additional deficit, the additional savings of interest, the funds I collect-19 and the remainder of public entities. Thirdly, by reprogramming European funds for 256 million euros, accelerating as much as possible, and our intention is to run between 2020 and 2021 what we had planned to run until 2023. And fourthly, with a very careful forecast of the state's approach, which we estimated at that time in 506 million euros, from which today we only received 36 million of what was at its moment between social policy and the first of health; and then 268 million euros from the Covid-Health Fund and 93 million from the Covid-Education Fund. In this sense, I regret that the Central Government is acting with changing criteria, even some of which are adhocratic, to distribute funds to the autonomous communities to meet this pandemic, without taking into account the criteria of the system of self-financing, which are the ones that normally attend the division between autonomys. The result of this improvisation of criteria by the Central Government is none other than that Galicia is out prejudiced. To date Galicia has received 21% less than the autonomous average; in Galicia EUR 133 per inhabitant, and the average of the autonomous communities, EUR 169 per inhabitant. If Galicia had received the same amount as the Spanish average per inhabitant we would have received at this time EUR 95.6 million more. I therefore look forward to the support of all parliamentary groups in the House so that this penalty can be corrected in the next rounds and the criteria for the allocation of the system of self-financing can be recovered. [[Applause]] In this sense, I welcome the consensus reached to create a special Commission for economic reactivation in this Parliament, in which all of you can come up with ideas to enrich, modify and refine the Plan for economic dynamisation and reactivation. In addition, one of our program lines will be to approve next year's Strategic Plan of Galicia 2021-2030. In Galicia we were pioneers in submitting our government action to a strategic planning system, and the results I think were very positive, because they put us between the two autonomous communities that have made the most progress in the last decade in per capita income growth and in convergence with Spain. The goal now is to design Galicia for the next decade with the approval of this Strategic Plan 2021-2030 to provide information to families, businesses and administrations about the axes of action of the Union for the next decade. Obviously, we must start from an assessment of the impact of the crisis covered to then define the policies needed to ensure the protection of the most disadvantaged and to achieve the economic recovery of employment as soon as possible. As a second major priority, we have to design the growth dynamics around four major axes of action, such as demographic dynamization and well-being, climate change, competitiveness and social cohesion. And for all of this strategy a major milestone is the European funds, both those of the new Community framework 2021-2027 and those of the extraordinary resources due to the pandemic. Galicia believes that it has demonstrated its exemplary behaviour in the execution of Community funds. Thanks to an important negotiating effort with the Union, Galicia had managed to maintain 90% of the European funds currently in force for this period ending in 2020 — extended until 2023 — with a co-financing rate of 20%. This has enabled us to have over this period of EUR 4 billion to maintain investment capacity and promote a new economic model based on innovation and human capital. We are committed to the priority areas of the Europe 2020 Strategy, such as R & D+I, ICT, development and business innovation, and the low carbon economy. Galicia currently stands out as one of the most advanced communities in the execution of actions financed by the European Funds Feder, ESF, EAder and FEMP. Similarly to what has been achieved in the current period towards the next budgetary framework, we will negotiate with both the Union and the Government of Spain a proper allocation of funds so that Galicia will not be harmed. Ladies and gentlemen, I also hope that among all of us we will be able to reach agreements to achieve the greatest possible resources and present the best projects to invest them, also by the hand of the Committee of Experts that is advising the Government. Last week we set up the Next Generation Galicia Commission to monitor the roadmap to capture these European resources. Ladies and gentlemen, once we have framed the context and the measures taken so far, we have to look at what the results are being achieved. In this sense, the indicators that we're going to know about the impact of covid-19, being all very negative, present objective data, to conclude that for now they are less negative in Galicia than in the whole of Spain. In no case, please, you understand this as a triumphalist conclusion; the months are coming very complicated. But it's also comforting that the data in a situation as hard as the current one is better in Galicia. We'll all have to rejoice at this, because I'm sure if it were worse, we'd all be more concerned, and you — as is your job — would be accountable to the Government. Let's see the data. In terms of GDP, in the second quarter of the year — the last data on which we have data, the most negative because of the pandemic and confinement — there was a significant fall in terms of the previous quarter of 14.5%, but 3.3 points below the average of Spain, which had registered a 17.8% decrease. In the labour market, the consequences of the curvature-19 also mark the period of the second trimester, but in Galicia the pandemic reduced by 0.7 points its rate of unemployment, in the set of Spain it increased by almost one point. And as a result, the rate of unemployment in Galicia is more than three points below that in Spain. Better comparative data that has just reaffirmed in a recent Funcas report, which in its estimates until last September also foresees a better behaviour of the Greek economy than the average of Spain. Better comparative data that also provides for the Galician Economic Forum in its subsequent reports of recent months. Better comparative data that also estimates recent BBVA studies. And some better comparative data that also refers to Airef. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, opinions and estimates that are not from the German Government itself, but from public and private bodies, in which everyone concludes the same: that the impact of the vault, being very hard, is fortunately lower in Galicia than in Spain. And if we go to specific figures, the German trade has had until August — the last published data — the lowest drop in sales from all over Spain. For its part, the public tender in Galicia is resisting, with a slight increase, in the face of a 37% collapse in the whole of Spain. And despite the immense difficulties, the Greek homes have an even worse position than the average due to low debt and the lowest relative poverty rates. I repeat: a very complicated situation, but something less complicated than in other territories. So far here's the summary of what we've been doing. And by focusing on the immediateest, priority number one right now is to draw up and approve the accounts for the next financial year 2020-20021. In fact, I would like to remind you that counting on this instrument in March of this year was fundamental, because it allowed us to cope in better conditions with the complicated situation caused by the pandemic. And proof of that is the examples I just cited. Because thanks to an approved budget Galicia had and still has a key tool for immediate action. This is the main reason Galicia needs to have her accounts approved for the next exercise as soon as possible. And since the Government we are speeding up the drawing up of 2020-2021, and we will do everything possible to speed up the deadlines. As I told them at the beginning of my speech, today, on October 20, we had to be delivering our accounts in Parliament for the next exercise. And if we can't do it, it's because the central government didn't communicate to the autonomous communities the first data -- not even everyone -- just two weeks ago. We can understand that this is not a normal year and that there may be delays, but what is no longer reasonable is that it took almost eight months to bring together the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, because the previous one had been in February. What does not seem reasonable is that a very important and very heavy aspect of budgeting, such as the wages of public employees — I repeat: essential aspect of accounting — is not communicated to the autonomous communities. In the board we already have some experience, so we work internally and we are accelerating everything we can budget procedures to have those accounts as soon as possible. Despite the delay of the Financial and Fiscal Policy Council — which did not meet until 5 October — although it did not have the first figures on the part of the Central Government until 5 October, despite the fact that we still have to clear uncertainties and despite the fact that the budgetary cycle takes a delay of more than two months, this government's commitment is to deliver the budgets to this Parliament by 2021 before the beginning of December. Budgets are the main programmatic line of any government. And we are committed to continuing to approve in this legislation, year by year, the autonomous accounts; continuing with the uninterrupted line of our community for forty years. As it is collected in the order that we published in the Official Journal of Galicia last week, we will prioritise speeding up the recovery and mitigate the effects of the pandemic both on families and on productive tissue. We will seek to ensure with the necessary means and personnel the socio-health system, ensure the safe functioning of education services, alleviate the effects of the crisis on the most disadvantaged and continue policies of economic dynamisation. And, ladies and gentlemen, in this set it is even more important, if it is true, the rigorous, responsible and prudent economic policy that we have been pursuing since 2009. I'll explain! Budget stability is an essential instrument to ensure the sustainability of the welfare state. This government — I insist — has carried out a responsible and prudent management of its debt policy as a necessary resource for the financing of essential public services, but at all times safeguarding the financial solvency of the Community. Galicia to the pandemic had achieved economic recovery — I repeat — with the lowest debt increase in Spain in the last decade. We've stabilized the debt ratio in 2014, and for three years we've had a downward ratio. By the close of 2019, Galicia had not only reduced its GDP debt ratio for the third consecutive year, but we even managed to reduce its debt volume for the first time in more than thirty years. Last time it was done in 1988. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, this has practical consequences for the Greeks and for the Greeks, because in the last decade we no longer issue EUR 4 billion in debt, or, if you prefer, each of them owes 2,000 euros less than the rest of Spanish citizens. In addition, the confidence that Galicia brings to investors, in 2019 it was one of the few autonomous communities that returned to the financial markets to take advantage of the conditions it offers, with abundant liquidity, high demand and historically low types of interest. I'm going to give you two examples: At the end of 2019, Galicia even formalized the first debt issue with negative profitability of our autonomous history. And this year 2020 we have just formalized an issue of sustainable bonds that are entirely targeted at social and environmental investments with a structure and a kind of interest that is close to zero percent. But what happens to be the most important of all? That Galicia is in a better position than other public administrations to deal with the pandemic-related economic crisis. We are in a position to make the Autonomous Public Fairy an important economic and social engine so that in situations of emergency and exceptionality like the one we are living in have enough to live and can give a proper economic, financial and social response. And as we are convinced that one of the pillars of economic policy that we can most directly affect is that the Union is paying its suppliers in an agile and efficient manner, another priority programme line will be to follow through this Friday and that the Community will continue to be at the head of the average payment period. In fact, at a time when the Central Government has just suspended tax rules, the only thing that remains is the average payment period, because it has a more direct impact on both families and businesses and suppliers. In fact, it is already considered normal that in Galicia we lead the agile payment to suppliers; this is also another reputational heritage of Galicia. We already had good data — I would say Spain's best — both in 2018 and 2019, but with the pandemic we wanted to speed up even more payments to provide liquidity to these suppliers, because, in the end, we're talking about companies, we're talking about pemes, we're talking about autonomy, with moments of extraordinary difficulty. The last published data for the month of July places Galicia as the second fastest paying community, 14.86 days; less than half with which the rest of the autonomous communities do so, which is thirty-one days. I think this is one of the data that explains the real useful economic policy. [[Applause]] And another example of useful economic policy is the suspension of deadlines since 14 March, and still in force, for both individuals and businesses who must submit self-liquidations for property transmission taxes and documented legal acts, successions and prayers and gambling taxes. A measure that is benefiting about thirty-two thousand people and businesses every month. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, our tax policy is known. We want to keep Galicia among the autonomous communities where middle and low incomes pay less taxes, and at the beginning of this legislation we want to reaffirm that programmatic line. With the tax reductions we have approved in recent years, Galicia is now among the communities with better tax treatment for inheritances, besides being, as you know, one of the few that counts with a very important heritage value as well, as our civil right, where the successor pacts appear. As for access to housing, we are committed to reducing taxation to families who acquire their first home for the purpose of their habitual residence, with a heritage limit, to benefit especially families with children and people who make a more relative effort for this type of purchase. We have eliminated taxes on people under 36 years of age, persons with disabilities and large families who buy a dwelling for their regular use in the small towns of Galicia, which, as they know very well, are 93% of our territory. Obviously, the goal is not another one but to fix the population on those contours. But this year we want to take another step in this strategy to place Galicia as the Autonomous Community with a lower tax to buy a regular rural housing. And the data we're going to know, still in the pandemic, so they confirm it a little bit. In rural areas, we launched a pioneer zero tax programme four years ago, with the aim of facilitating and promoting the mobilization of agricultural land and agricultural activity. With these measures I have just reported, since 2016 there are already five hundred and thirty-five thousand of the Greeks and the Greeks that benefit from these tax reductions. In addition, in the IRPF, with the discount we approved in 2016, in Galicia we continue among communities with lower taxes for low and medium incomes. [[Applause]] In tax policy, families are a priority and we have Galicia headquartered in birth incentives, with higher child birth deductions, child care and housing rental. And for this legislation our intention is to maintain all these reductions and incentives, and also when possible new tax benefits, both for large families and for single-parent families, as well as for victims of gender-based violence, such as deepening and favoring the recovery and placing in value of agroforestry lands. With regard to public employment, social dialogue and collective bargaining with workers' representatives have made it possible for many and important agreements to be reached in recent years, the most significant of which, from my point of view, is the social agreement on public employment in Galicia. I think this line of dialogue is very positive and therefore we must keep it. So, I promise you that in this legislation we will keep this collective bargaining line continuous and useful, in the search for new pacts that serve to improve the conditions of public employees, with the ultimate objective of improving the provision of services that we provide to citizenship. In this sense, one of the priorities is to complete the stabilization of public employees that we have been carrying out in recent years within the Temporary Staff Stabilization Plan. Already in 2017 we signed with the unions Workers' Committees, CSIF and UXT, as well as with the health care centres SATSE and CESM-Omega, together with the educational union ANPE, an agreement to develop a public employment stability plan that allowed 15,188 public service squares until 2019. Together and unions we have agreed on a goal: to promote staff policies to reduce the employment temporality rate, so that it does not exceed 7%. In order to achieve this goal, we approve both regular job offers and stabilization offers. In this regard, I would like to remind you that the Galician Union has been requesting a mechanism that solves the limitations of the effective replacement rates, especially in health, education and social services. We have claimed this on many occasions in the past year, we have done it at the Public Employment Coordination Commission, we have applied for it at the Sectoral Public Employment Conference, we will re-examine it at the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council last month, on 5 October, and also in a letter I sent to the Minister of Finance recently. From the German Government we understand that these limitations of the replacement rates that have been applied in an interrupted manner with greater or lesser intensity since the 1990s, in the current context, have lost their reason for being. In fact, we believe that these limitations are precisely the element that is preventing stabilization measures that we have already committed. What strategy are we following in this situation? The Greek Government has promoted public employment offers every year since 2009, even when there were many restrictions on the state, and in this new cycle we will continue to push them. In fact, in public employment offers of 2017, 2018 and 2019, we have greatly increased the number of squares compared to previous years by meeting the objectives of budgetary stability, which allowed a replacement rate of 108% in both 2018 and 2019. In a decade, public employment offers exceeded twenty-five thousand squares. Ladies and gentlemen, in Galicia we take the stability of public employment very seriously. That's why the data from the Statistical Bulletin of the Ministry of Business, not ours, are placing the Autonomous Community of Galicia as the lowest rate of timeliness in public employment in comparison. This isn't random. [[Applause]] We want to continue to convene selective processes and I can announce to you that in the coming weeks we will approve a public employment offer of 2020 which will consist of 1,526 public service squares, in its vast majority of free access, to which will be added another 1,215 squares, to make a total of 2,741 places in social services that are part of the Equality and Welfare Consortium. In addition, 2,741 squares will be added to 3,263 fixed-work jobs, to which we offer the possibility of voluntary functionalization. [[Applause]] This offer of public employment, of course, is additional and different from what has already been called for for the teaching sector of 3,654 squares and what will soon be done by the Galician Health Service for its health care. In addition, in this legislation we will continue to promote this process of renewal of templates as a result of the many retirements planned, with the reinforcement of public services, which will generate important employment opportunities to total a minimum of 10,000 squares for our girls and for our young people who wish to work in the Greek administration. Another programmatic commitment is to complete in this legislation the unification and equalization of working conditions in the Greek public services. The main intention in these years will be to function and end the voluntary functioning of the categories of workers, so that new external staff incomes are already in functional squares. This is a process that we have already set in motion and that is currently being asked to access more than 95% of the staff that are likely to function. As I said, functionalization is a voluntary process. The aim of the operation is to unify the legal regime of staff serving in the Galician Administration and to comply with the general principle that jobs in public administrations should be performed by staff. In this area, the first functionalization processes of workers have already been convened. And at the beginning of this month, the tests took place for nine hundred public employees, with historical participation, above 98% of the targeted applicants. The second step — as I have already said — will be to convene for this process 3,263 other fixed public employees. So, we're going to complete this process of operation in this legislation. On the other hand, this was the first government to implement the professional career in the autonomous administration, committed to trade union organizations. To make effective the right of public employees to progress individually as a recognition of their development as regards knowledge, training, experience, engagement and participation in initiatives of public interest, with a regular evaluation. In particular, we agreed to this professional career with trade unions in the Concertation Agreement and set in motion the extraordinary regime for public employees that we had already begun this professional career. Well, in this legislation, we will approve the ordinary career scheme of public employees, which will accompany them throughout their entire professional life, from entry to retirement. One new feature in this legislation is that we focus on the Council's public employment resources and competences. We already had the General Directorate of Public Service with us, and now we're joining the General Directorate of Evaluation and Administrative Reform and more the Galician School of Public Administration. I believe that with this organizational chart, we will undoubtedly gain efficiency and we will be able to improve the provision of public services to citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, the coronovirus pandemic forces us to come up with new solutions to secure and secure the provision of public services, and this will be one of the priorities that we will have to implement. These challenges are undoubtedly the consolidation of electronic administration, and they continue to drive and simplify administrative procedures and regulation of telework. In recent years, we have substantially reformed the functioning of the autonomous administration, with several rules, such as the Organizational and Operating Law, in 2010; the Budget Discipline Act, in 2011; the Rationalization Act, in 2013; the Public Employment Act, in 2015; the Transparency and Good Government Act, in 2016; and the Digital Administration Act, in 2019, with a goal: to achieve greater rationalization and administrative axillization and to deepen on the modernization of the procedures of the services provided. In fact, the development of these standards, combined with the rationalization of structures and the reorganization of troops, together with technological modernization, and all of this with a cross-cutting approach, allows us to currently have a more effective, autonomous administration close to citizenship. And right now, by fighting against the pandemic, we must strengthen this strategy. Currently, of the 1,635 existing procedures, a total of 1,536 are digitized. In the coming years, we'll complete universal digitization. But, above all, in this legislation we want to deepen as a programmatic line in simplification and administrative axillization. The Directorate-General for Evaluation is about to conclude a study on the needs and possibilities for administrative simplification in our Greek Ideo, so soon, a question of weeks, we will be able to have their conclusions and proposals. In this strategy, we also frame process automation in administration to provide advantages for both citizens and their own administration. For example, at CIXTEC we have already adjudicated, bided and launched at the Galicia Tax Agency to carry out automatic repetitive and large-volume tasks, which allow us to release workloads and provide the administrative services of tools to work more efficiently. I believe that initiatives like this and that we want to continue to expand to other areas of administration benefit citizenship, because it reduces deadlines, accelerates procedures and allows uninterrupted administration to function. But it's also beneficial for administrative services, because they automate the most repetitive tasks and we've become more available to perform tasks of greater added value. Ladies and gentlemen, the Pandemic of Covid-19 has brought about changes in our life and in the forms of work in all organizations, which makes it necessary to deepen in other forms of work, especially telework. For the Galician Union, telework is not a novelty, because we have already been pioneers in its implementation and regulation. In 2013, we approved an order regulating accreditation, the day-to-day, work-time, time flexibility and telework for public employees. We later included this modality in the Galician Public Employment Act 2/2015, and the third community was in adapting all its regulations on public function to the basic regulations of the State. Now, the state has just passed a royal decree for its regulation, when we have already given law to telework at the board five years ago. Now we also want Galicia to be one of the first to adapt its regulation, after the change that has just occurred. Ten days after the Royal Decree of September 30, we already have a new text in Galicia that we handed over last week to the unions, to which they can make allegations until tomorrow. And we would like that on this important issue we have reached the first agreement of legislation with trade union organizations. It is considered telework the mode of provision of services at a distance where the competitive and functional content of the job can develop whenever the needs of the service allow it outside the administration's units by using information and communication technologies. You can accommodate this modality both the official staff and the work. It will be voluntary and reversible, both for the public employee who requests it and for the administration. In any case, the administrative units will have a minimum daily presence of 40% of their staff and the working day cannot be divided to be lent in both modes, both in the presence and in the distance. In order for an administrative unit to allow the provision of services through the telework mode, a target work management system or a measurable task assignment system must be established. In this sense, I have to tell you that we are already working a lot on protocols and tools that will enable these forecasts to be effective. In addition, the technical means of performing the post in the telework mode will be the property of the administration, which will provide the public employee with a computer, office tools, connection to the IT systems of the Autonomic Administration and electronic signature systems. In this future norm or agreement, we will regulate an extraordinary telework with ordinary telework, for situations such as health emergencies, or others that may come, individually or collectively, similar to those which may have a certain catastrophic or vulnerable character, or even with regard to certain very specific groups. Precisely, and to finish, intensifying specific training in teleworking and public employment is one of the main lines of action of the EGAP in this legislation. Other outstanding actions will focus on practical training in electronic administration, decentralization of EGAP's training offer and the adoption of a multi-year strategy for continuing teacher training that defines the contents of the next training plans, without forgetting the lines of prestige in which EGAP also works, with a high assessment at the national level. With regard to the Instituto Galego de Statística, we will present the preliminary draft law for the adoption of the new Italian Statistical Plan 2022-2026. Finally, we will also continue in this legislation with the heritage plan approved in the past and which has as its primary objective a common strategy for all the cities of Greece, which is to take advantage of our public heritage and cancel all possible rentals and limit them to the maximum. An example of this heritage strategy are the new neighborhood of Residence in Lugo, the rehabilitation of the Benito Corbal building in Pontevedra, the City of Justice in Vigo, the headquarters of the Triga in Ourense, the restoration of the Tabacos Factory Coruña and the adequacy of the former headquarters of Health, the new Amizar space. I believe that this policy of reducing, rationalizing and saving rents has been very important in these years, but we must continue to perfect it until it is practically zero. In fact, 11 years ago we spent 6.9 million euros on rents; at present it's only 3.2 million. We will continue to deepen this action. [[Applause]] In short, we face a legislation full of difficulties, in which we will have to control the health pandemic at first and mitigate the economic and social effects in order to reactivate the economy and our society as soon as possible. The first priority of the Council is to draw up the budgets of Galicia by 2021 before December. Secondly, we will implement and complete the Plan of Economic Reactivation and dynamisation to assist in economic recovery, which I believe we deserve, also in social. We will work to maintain the largest European funds for the period 2021-2027 and capture resources from the funds planned for economic reactivation by the vault-19, called Next Generation, called React-EU. That's what we'll play: picking up the best funds for Galicia, more and better. Fourthly, we will continue to prioritize the agile payment to our suppliers, in order to promote liquidity to both companies and families. We'll keep Galicia among communities with better taxation for middle and low income. We will continue with social dialogue and a continued and useful collective bargaining with trade union organizations, to improve the conditions of public employees and, above all, in our service to citizenship. We will strengthen the employment stability plan in the autonomic administration by calling more than 10,000 squares during this legislation. We will complete the process of functionalization of fixed-duty workers. We will complete the universalization of the digitisation of the General Administration and simplify the administrative procedures. We will be of the first autonomous communities to adapt and make real the regulation of telework. And we'll approve next year the Strategic Plan of Galicia 2021-2030 to reach the end of this decade with the problems solved, in a position where we no longer look at GDP below, but at the top. I think as a good society we deserve it. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u23	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Round of parliamentary groups. The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor to Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Counselor. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today you come here to this parliament to inform us about the general lines of action of your department by the year 2021. A year in which politics will be decisive for thousands of people in our community, a year in which it will play a role to transform the Welsh health policy to deal with the effects of the health crisis caused by the coward-19, but also, Counsellor, a year in which politics has to serve to minimize the devastating effects of the economic crisis and the social crisis to which this pandemic has led us. Since then, Counselor, this year can't be like the previous ones; this year it can't be more important to match accounts than to meet people's needs. You, Counsellor, lead the council that defines the capital policy that will develop the German Government in this legislation, the political priorities that will be materialized in the budget corresponding to the 2021 fiscal year. And you must not forget that at this moment, it is more likely that at no other time politics has to be useful to Greek society. Politics must respond to the needs of our people. [[Applause]] I'm going to do my intervention by exposing a country comparative with data........................................................................................................................................................................................... Counsellor, demography is the first major failure of the policies of the People's Party in the governments of Galicia. The IGE tells us that since 2009 we've lost almost ninety-six thousand people; that is, if we made a linear average, we'd lose 8,710 people a year. Today, more than 25% of the population in Greece is over 65 years old, while children under 19 don't reach 16%. We have the sad privilege of having the record of fewer births in Galicia in the historical series since 2009. In 2019 they were born in Galicia almost six thousand nine hundred children less than they were born in 2009. And we count on the lowest crop balance in all autonomous communities by 2019. And what has the Government of Nuñez Feijóo done for these eleven years? Well, to draw up some plans that are just a sum of budget accounts under a common name, without deepening on the causes and conclusions of experts themselves in the field. In Galicia's own strategic plan, one of the measurable objectives was to implement a package of measures to revitalize our community demographically, bringing us closer to 1.59 children per woman. Counselor, the latest data published by the IGE in 2018 tells us that in Galicia we're at 1.04 in the average number of children per woman. Well, then, a very far-reaching goal of fulfilling the originally expressed aim of the Strategic Plan of Galicia. Eleven years have not yet passed the Demographic Impulse Act. A bill in which the Government trusts the reversal of our country's demographic crisis to simple Christmas measures. There's a diet developed by the Demographic Observatory. Will you pay attention to your arrivals? The Socialists present a wide battery of amendments to the bill, in the sense marked by the observatory itself, in which it is pointed out that the poor quality and non-university of public services, the lack of conciliation strategies and the shortage of work, as well as the lack of quality of work, are the main causes of this demographic indentation that we are suffering from in Galicia. I'm not going to stop much on news, because it's not going to give me time, but I have news and data here that evaluates every one of the statements I bring here today. Counsellor, having a quality job is the basis for a decent life, allowing young people to develop their vital project and allow those who emigrated to their country if they so desired. That's why, Counsellor, employment is the second major failure of the Government of the Faijó Nuñez in Galicia. [[Applause]] After eleven years, eleven years and three absolute majority!, they can't continue to seek excuses in previous governments or look to the other side. It is up to this government, its government, the Government of the People's Party to bear all the responsibility for the reality of our country, also in employment. In eleven years we lost nearly two hundred forty-three thousand people between the ages of 20 and 39, that is, the youngest potential in our country. That youth in which governments invest in their formation, also the Welsh Government, but which will then produce profitability elsewhere outside of Galicia. Counsellor, with an economic growth measured in terms of GDP over 3% in the last five years, in Galicia we haven't recovered the levels of occupied population we had in 2009. The Galician Strategic Plan also set another measurable target: to increase by more than 100,000 jobs by 2020 and to reduce the unemployment rate by around 10%. Well, Counsellor, the unemployment rate for 2019 is still 11.8%, i.e. 1.8 points above the initial forecasts of the Strategic Plan, and the target of 100,000 jobs is far from being met. So, in the fourth quarter of 2019, we had 46,200 people less occupied than in the same quarter of 2009. The average membership of Social Security in all regimes was in 2019 of 15,676 memberships less than in total by 2009. In the fourth quarter of 2019, we had 52,300 homes with all their members unemployed, which is 12,700 more than in the same quarter of 2009. And I remind you that, thanks to the employment policies of the People's Party in the State, the poor working class was born for the first time, with a result of precariousness, instability, loss of rights and an alarming increase in the generational gap. And today in Galicia we have a much more vulnerable population, where employment, far from being a priority for this government, was a collateral damage to its policies. Counsellor, this was the data before the pandemic. And you were talking about the data corresponding to 2020 and you were pointing out that they remained, but they remained thanks to state aid, which facilitated liquidity for self-employed people and businesses, provided income for workers and put social protection measures for the most vulnerable people, so that no one would stay behind, as in the 2008 crisis. To get out of this crisis, Counselor, Galicia will need a greater boost from the Galician Union. And the Socialists also discussed with more than concern the budgetary execution of the shares in the budgets in the tenth legislation, in which they left out running more than four hundred and forty-seven million euros for employment policies. Counsellor, does the German Government consider that it is doing everything the self-government has at its disposal to reverse the labour market situation in Galicia? Without work, Counselor, the risk of poverty and social exclusion is very alarming. Thus, indicators of poverty in our community show the third major failure of the policies of Nuñez Feijóo in Galicia. Also in the Galician Strategic Plan they set as a goal to reduce population at risk of poverty or social exclusion in 100,000 people. Another goal they won't have met. We can consult various sources, but I will focus on the data published by the European Network of Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion, "The State of Poverty in Galicia", from which our president of Parliament today read a manifesto using this same data. And it reveals to us data as serious as in 2019, and we're not talking after the pandemic, 655,000 people, that is, 24.3% of the population in Galicia, in 2019, was in a state of poverty or social exclusion. Thirty-two thousand people more than in the previous year, being the only community in which this index rises. And the report tells us that neither economic recovery nor decent employment came to most people who were in poverty or exclusion; that in Galicia we have 212,000 people who live in severe poverty in 2019; that 332,000 German pensioners — five thousand more than last year — have wages that prevent them from overcoming the poverty threshold, and that we have nearly 500 and 1,000 people at risk of poverty in Galicia in 2019; that is, if we add up to those who are already at risk, we exceed one million people in our country. And that in 2019 or 3.6% of the population in Galicia lived in conditions of severe material deprivation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u25	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u26	In view of this data, Counsellor, can you once again state here at the parliamentary headquarters that Galicia is better placed to deal with this crisis resulting from the famine-19 pandemic? Really, Counselor, can you keep saying this statement you just made? With these precedents we entered the year 2020, and as it is known by all of March 11 the World Health Organization declared the pandemic caused by the covid-19...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u27	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u28	...—I am finished, Mr President—i.e., an unknown health crisis, which has also triggered an economic crisis and a social crisis, with consequences for the economy and employment, and endangering the livelihood of millions of people.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u29	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u30	I'm still on my second shift. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u32	Good morning to all and to all. Counselor, your unexpected speech was less disappointing. You mentioned the pandemic, I suppose, in order not to look like an alien at all, but we can say that the pandemic didn't really go through its lines of work. Look, we're living an absolutely exceptional moment, marked in addition to a second very worrisome wave, and Galicia today is not the same as eight months ago. We are facing a crisis so deep that it is already here and that we know, in addition, that a new world will come out of it. But you seem to have given up some profound change as well as taking care of emergencies, which is even more worrying. They don't want to take care of those emergencies or put on long lights. And, of course, your presence could be summed up in what you are the Government of Renunciation. They continue to be driven by inertia and give up taking their own mistakes as well as refusing to also put in place their own tools to intervene now in the most extreme circumstances of people who are worse off. And they also renounce, as you can see, self-government in front of the state and Europe, beyond repeating here the same chorrhomic mantras and the same postures that later behind them have no kind of political strategy to achieve anything. And your milkmotive remains that there is always someone who is worse, and with that you seem to be quiet. But the reality is that in the world we live today, Galicia covid wasn't pink yesterday, but it isn't today, Mr. Martínez. You've painted a reality here that doesn't match what you're suffering for thousands of Greeks and Greeks. Indeed, we were read by the President of Parliament before this appearance began that statement by the Galician Network against Poverty. I don't know if you've read the report, but I recommend it because it tells us worrying things, as in 2019 — before the pandemic came — in this country almost a quarter of our population was already at risk, in poverty. And you're still here with the same litany of healthy growth of so many years ago, as if everything was absolutely perfect and as if we had an ideal situation that makes us live without any kind of seizure a pandemic of these characteristics, when yesterday the situation was worrying but today we have thousands of Greeks and Greeks directly at the edge of the precipice. And what does the German Government do? Then you come here to say that Galicia has a very strong situation. You have given a lot of data here but you haven't talked about, for example, something very worrying about what the Galego Institute of Statistics tells us, which is your responsibility for the structural situation of the Greek homes. Tell us the obvious, and you don't have to know much to realize that the reality we have is that there are more homes that arrive with more difficulty at the end of the month and less that they do it easily. And look: today even the Banco de España itself and the IMF insist on the serious problem of inequality. And for you it's still the pink elephant they don't want to talk about. You talked about everything from the past as well. And we also want to talk about the present, because today, outside the gates of this parliament, there is a very worrying situation. And the precariousness — which you have ignored in your speech again — and the destruction of employment is now lethal in this second wave, and you know it. I wonder how you can come here without making a single concrete proposal. We demand that you at least commit yourself to making a shock plan with immediate social and economic measures. [[Applause]] We're wondering if you're even trying to value what you're going to expect at the end of the ERTE in this country, which is going to assume that between 20,000 and 30,000 people in our country can go to the street. I don't know if you want these people to comfort themselves by just re-thinking here once again that you've made it easier for those counties to advance. I don't deny you the need for that measure at that time. We could also talk about the responsibilities of the Galician Union in those delays, but of course it's not enough. You have come to appear in several municipalities in our country with a perimeter confinement, which is also assuming the ban of non-conviving meetings, which is assuming that there are thousands of businesses — restaurants, above all, but also tourism — and also many autonomous and autonomous ones who have come down again from their business, who do not know when they're going to have to raise it, when they're going to be able to do it. And you still don't see the reality. Look, the least you should do is get out here and commit yourself to tomorrow's Official Journal of Galicia, there's going to be a direct order of help for the self-employed and self-sufficient in this country. [[Applause]] You've already paid attention to the replenishment rates. I hope they don't come so late for such a fundamental debate, because this country needs more Official Journal of Galicia and less powerpoints. And, of course, we do not share at all the self-comprehensive speech about the great strategy and planner that is the German Government, because they soon fail to meet their objectives. I really don't understand how you can go up to this forum to self-preparate the results of the previous Strategic Plan, when you promised and promised at the beginning of the previous legislation to create 100,000 jobs, and before the pandemic they didn't even reach 40,000. They have no credibility when they say job creation is going to be a priority, because of the economic context but also because of their precedents, and because they've been evading responsibilities for eight months, Mr. Martínez, and I have to say so. [[Applause]] You set up an ad hoc committee of experts, which, in all respects, in both documents were basically recommendations to other administrations. As if the Galician Union had no capacity to do anything. You've been commissioned to a reactivation and dynamization plan which is a press release. If there is, please, I refer them to this committee of Parliament which they have spoken about, because publicly what is contained in this plan are holders, Mr Martínez. And if you really want to weave some kind of consensus, the logic is that this opposition can see the little letter of that Reactivation Plan, and not trust the macro figures that you randomize on each press round, because that's not serious. And we're willing to make a constructive opposition here but, of course, we ask him for some seriousness. Indeed, in the short term we have this budgetary debate. We thank him for giving us a time horizon here, but, in fact, I'm a little undeclared that you haven't taken advantage of his intervention to clarify something about which figures you're going to handle, because there's a debate there too. Because you have your debt right now in historical figures in this country. And the question is, why did they use that debt? And if we continue to obsess ourselves — which is going to be necessary in this context — the question will be to talk about priorities. And in that sense, we want to put three consensuss on the table: first, they strengthen those public services but really, they publish and call all the vacancies of health personnel and social services, they end with privatizations and they push for a new model. Secondly, we have to bet on a strong investment in the economy, to avoid a massacre in these pemes and autonomous, and also to intervene in strategic productive sectors. And thirdly, we have to bet on science and innovation; if anything has shown this crisis it is that the countries that best resisted were the ones who had waged for it. I'm glad you've read the last report from the Galego Economic Forum, but I don't know if you've got a little bit of color drawn from what's said in that report of the R & D+I differential between northern Portugal and Galicia, which should be ashamed of you. [[Applause]] And there would also be a deep debate about the tax model this country has. To me, of course, that at a time of trouble in collection, of difficulties in having own funds, you come here saying that you will continue with your fiscal policy, which is contrary to the interests of the social majority, I worry a lot. In any case, Mr Martínez, we have already spoken of the urgency of this need for a plan of attention to the social and economic emergencies that are at the door of this parliament today. We have already talked about which priorities should be in an appropriate budget, because by the mere existence of these budgets problems are not solved alone. But we also want to keep insisting on an issue that seems important to us, which is that we have to put on the long lights. And, of course, you've put here the very last cry about the many problems that Galicia has that it doesn't have enough political weight in the state. Welcome to that debate! But I'd like to know what you did, because the financing debate is going to be there, about the financing of Galician and local finance. [[Applause]] And I also use it to ask them to comply with these budgets with the Greek municipalities, which increase transfer accounts to the municipalities, which assume the payment of those extraordinary expenses that the local administrations have incurred. But, of course, I wonder, did you guys come to file this complaint, that judicial suit that was calling for this parliament in respect of the central government? [[Applause]] Because we know that Castile's has prospered, we don't know anything about Galicia's complaint. And also one last question — and this concludes — is the debate on the European funds. We must have courage to come to this parliament, when in the previous plenary, they refused to have a presentation from this parliament to have a country position, to make demagogy with which we come to some kind of consensus. You will have a consensus in this group if you have political courage. I ask you, what is the minimum number that you're going to excite? We understand that, at least, Galicia should receive nearly 13 billion euros. Do you agree or not? Are you going to defend that or not? Don't you leave them married or are you going to do that?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u33	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u34	Are you going to defend that there are territorialized games, yes or no? Are you going to defend that Galicia has direct management capacity, yes or no? [[Applause]] They're going to do something further than let the previous crisis rescue the bank...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u35	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u36	...this crisis rescues Ibex 35, or are they going to do anything different?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u37	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u38	Of course, if they're willing, we'll be there. But the impression we get is that we have... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u39	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u40	... once again a government that lets itself go and that only it does...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u41	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u42	...is looking for responsibilities in other gates. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u43	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Puy Fraga has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm the first thing I want to do is thank you for the premise that the councillor at Fairy comes in on this camera to explain to us what the general lines of action are in the scope of his counseling. A council that basically has two functions: the first is the financial function, i.e. financing self-government public expenditure and drawing up budgets that meet the needs of public services, and the second, which is very close to it — and therefore, it is a correct fact that they have been incorporated into their council — is the statute and the economic-labor scheme precisely for public employees. And it's important and relevant to this appearance because, indeed, even though the closest we all live, suffer and live is a virus that is generating a huge health crisis, the fact is that its consequences are immediate to an economic crisis. At the moment, not yet, because public administrations are going to try to react and avoid an obvious social crisis. Of course, that's what this is about, that once we overcome the health crisis because we go out, reactivate the economy and avoid a social crisis. And we are faced with an economic crisis that — we have said it on occasion — is completely unpublished in recent times, not only by its depth but, above all, by its characteristics. Therefore, any action we want to take in the economic sphere must take into account the characteristics of this economic crisis. First of all, it is a supply crisis, because international distribution channels have been paralysed, even stopping the production of large companies that have placed their production elements in different countries. And, of course, it's a supply crisis that has affected more the small and medium-sized company, by the confinements forced at a given time given the spectacular advance in Spain, above other economies, of the virus and of the contagion. Well, all of this is certainly causing asymmetric effects. In Galicia, we can see that the rural sector has responded, and even increased its production during the worst — until now — of the pandemic itself; however, other sectors, such as hospitality or tourism, are suffering far more seriously the consequences of the pandemic. This ultimately leads to uncertainty and, therefore, makes investment paralysed and, in addition, indebtedness, both in the search for liquidity, as well as the logical and compulsory indebtedness of public administrations, to help support the increase in unemployment and the paralysis of activity, is being financed primarily — that this is also something that needs to be clarified — by the intervention of European bodies, either through monetary policy, or through direct public expenditure and European funds. But we also have a demand crisis because, in fact, paralysis — and we are seeing, for example, the deposit rates in banks as they grow consistently — is leading to what was called "the paradox of frugality" on their day, people when there is uncertainty do not spend. That therefore deepens the problem of economic paralysis and the crisis. In fact, this lack of private expenditure has been replaced in some way by the support of public administrations. What is certainly giving importance to both monetary policy and the importance of membership of the euro, which is financing — I insist — with massive debt purchases of public expenditure in Spain. These will enable us to get out of the crisis better before, although they will also have consequences for the future, with increases of public indebtedness not only in Spain, but in the whole world; growths of public indebtedness that at some point, of course, once we overcome the pandemic and the economic crisis, will have to be cut short. An unprecedented crisis. And it is also worth noting that society has stood up. I believe that in general terms public services, also in Galicia, worked in a broad and exemplary way. And the business fabric. It often seems like it wasn't a complete social reaction. So there were companies and, therefore, private capital business workers who kept their business, for example, without going further, all the distribution and sale of food, or others that also have an already more regulated character, such as telecommunications, which enabled them to overcome the crisis. Well, with that attitude we're dealing with the worst, I think we have to deal with the economic crisis, overcome it. The challenge is uncommon. So anything you say, and always on the basis that we are in an unprecedented situation, is tremendously complex. In this sense, I believe that the counselor today brought a speech with several correctness. The first is the focus of the joint effort. The councillor said something that is important and that the other spokespersons have forgotten: the effort must be a set of all administrations, because today more than ever, the European Union is working, today more than ever, the Government of Spain has to serve all autonomous communities, today more than ever, we must mobilize all possible resources from autonomous communities and, of course, from local administrations. An effort that I think must also be extended to the political forces. Today it was requested that the Reactivation Plan be sent here. I'm glad we're talking about the reactivation committee's work plan. There is, of course, a commitment already made by the President to forward all the documentation of the Joint Reactivation Plan to the Commission, where we will all have an opportunity to analyse it and, if so, in future prospects of improving it or introducing issues that make it even more effective. Coordination and cooperation are fundamental at the moment, and we continue — and I think the adviser has also done so — open to all political forces. It is true that much, a full spokesman and another average of his intervention, was to question whether we were better or worse. I think it is obvious that we are in a better situation in 2020 than we were in 2009 to deal with this epidemic; the data are clear and unquestionable. I believe that the debate on how we are, if we stick to the public sector, we see that the Galician deficit was much lower than that of the whole of the autonomous communities, with which we have more reaction capacity. We see that public debt is lower in the Autonomous Community of Galicia, which gives us more margin of indebtedness to promote reactivation. We are seeing that this funding capacity is allowing the economy to be financed directly through payment to the suppliers, and let us remember everything that happened in the previous crisis with the need to finance suppliers that broke because the administrations did not pay them what they owed. And, in addition, we're keeping an investor spending very much above the average of the autonomous communities; we're at 12.5 non-financial expenditure, on non-financial expenditure of capital expenditure, and the average of the autonomous communities is 7.2. And this also allowed the reaction, because it was said here that nothing was done. Home!, in the economic field, priority has been given and the budgets have been rearranged, EUR 828 million, which the councillor explained in addition; the budgetary margin has been used to count more resources, EUR 151 million, which was the saving of interest, funds cover, the additional deficit; European funds have been reprogrammed by accelerating their spending, EUR 256 million, and a prudent injection has been made to inject money into the economy of the state approaches, which are currently not being or are not all appropriate as they should be. Actually, this was done for the first few days. The data on the fall of the Greek economy are not as substantial as those of the Spanish economy, and it is clear that something would have to do with the injection of funds that the Autonomous Community has made thanks to this reprogramming. It is true that this allows political stability. In Spain there were four elections and one budget, which is also the People's Party, before losing the government. In Galicia, on the other hand, there were four budgets and one choice, which gave a result that I think is also useful to explain that the reading of Greek society is not the pessimistic that you have made. As a second point — and this has not been pointed out too much — it must be pointed out that the adviser has met with challenges in the short term, but without losing the prospect in the long term. And there's two news. The first is that the budgets will be here before the end of the year, and I think that's an excellent news. But the second is that you're going to start working on a strategic plan for the decade, where, of course, we're also going to have to insert the strategic projects that come from the reactive commission. Thirdly, I believe that the advisor also had as correct as setting clear priorities. The priorities have explicitly said them, and we share them. I think they make a reflection, another thing is how we implement them, but at the outset we have to say that Galicia's priorities are health, education, social policy and economic reactivation. I think there's little scope for discrepancy with this. These are the priorities, and we're going to see if we're capable of all of these priorities right. Certainly with budgets we'll be more able to manage than without them, and that's an advantage. We also share the fiscal policy that has been pursued and, of course, all the issues that have been said about public employment. On this, too, I think we should as a representative chamber of society say something that I think is relevant. Some analysts are starting to talk about a new one...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u45	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u46	...social division. For example, Victor Lapuente, who says that there will start to be a conflict because of the employment situation and the public employee's salary with respect to which the vast majority of society is living, which is subject to temporary employment regulation records and which, of course, can lose their jobs. I think that's what we have to do to make it a call to everyone's responsibility: the administration, which has the commitment to stabilize and improve the conditions of the public servant, but we all have to know where we're moving.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u47	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u48	I believe that this responsibility will be forced on all sides, by political forces and also by union forces. Thank you, Counselor. We shared the goals marked in his intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Puy. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. Martínez García has the floor for the replica.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u50	Thank you again, Mr. President. I very much appreciate the speeches of those who preceded me at this time, both the representative or spokesperson of the PSOE, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo, and Mrs Presas, by the BNG, and Mr Puy; of all we learn. And I took a few notes. What happens is that, obviously, — you know me already — I will look for a little bit more relaxed today in my formulations. Truly, my appearance is about what is essentially the responsibility of the Business and Public Administration Council, with that new designation you have. That's why I even focused much of my intervention on completing the public employment system, which I think is also important right now. I've learned a lot about what skills are. Finally, what we're talking about here is strategic lines right now, strategic lines for legislation. I've been announcing a series of them, from which at the end I've made a lecture of the top ten, and not the only ones, that I've been moving forward into the whole legislation. So, do I really appreciate the words you can call me responsible for the budget that I handle politics? No, I'm responsible for the budget as long as I'm appointed as advisor to Fairy. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, I honestly promise you that I never wanted to lead anything, it doesn't go my way. I don't think it's right either that a Fairy advisor in any organization handles the policies, and above all every single one of them that was listed later. There may be data in absolute terms that you manage skillfully — I would if it were the case would handle data in relative terms, perhaps not so skillfully — but what if I agree with you, and of course, is that in the subject of demography, on the subject of employment, on the subject of budgetary execution, on the subject of poverty, which Mrs Presas also referred to, it is good that we give ourselves a strategic plan to put on the frontispic which are the main challenges. I have just told you that it has been and will, for example, be demography a challenge, as well as the state of well-being that we must give ourselves. Then the metric will come; don't be afraid of the metric. If there are targets, if there are indicators, even to be criticized, that's good, we'll walk in the right direction. What's clear is that we'll be wrong less if we think about it, and that doesn't mean we think about it. But if among all of us, starting with us, we think about it, surely planning is only to minimize the error and, in fact, to succeed. So with different sensibilities of what you call demography, you talk after the law of demographic impulse, of employment, out of youth, we can agree or not; I think we haven't, many times we've talked about it. But I believe that in what is the most general debate we hope to start from the first days of December. I think it's good, we're not going to run away, we never run away from that kind of debate. I don't think I can teach anyone any lessons right now. I can't match you when he says "a lot of state aid." I just have to talk about what to come to Galicia; I'm a little more humble. What I'm saying is that the state is far outnumbered by other kinds of relationships. But at the end of the day, we say the distribution that was made in Health, we say the distribution that was made in Education, when two days before it was Social Policy, curiously, we say the distributions that are coming to us from the indirect news of what might be the ratio. The only conclusion is that the Autonomous Community of Galicia — let me use a colloquial expression — we are going out of the way. Then comes Mrs. Presas and says how little political weight the People's Party in Galicia has. I imagine if we put on a balance what the BNG has, I think it would be a micronexima and so on, but well... since we're going to get to know each other, too, right? [[Applause]] So, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, I really appreciate you making me a leader of certain policies, but I don't get enough, it doesn't give me the ability to do so, and our advisor as an organization I promise you don't take that role either. And I honestly promise you that we know how to use, but it already leaves me very nervous that only absolute criteria are used, when even your head of rows in certain questions in this parliament formulates comparative terms, and you don't realize what the occupation rate on the population you can work on. It's something that really leaves me anonymized. And there's also something that really lets me announce -- and it's not my question of getting into disputes -- when we talk about emigration. I've said it several times in this parliament, and not because I say so, eh! The objective data tells us that the Autonomous Community of Galicia, from 2009 to 2019, — official data — is the community where the rate — so I say — of people who emigrate, or who move to Spain or to other countries, is the lowest in all autonomous communities. Does that mean that we are content with everyone who has their horizon and has to leave the autonomous community? Not at all, but we must put the data in relation. But it doesn't matter, because we're still with the same book. And then there are some stuff coming in here with mantras and crying at them; disappointing speech. Theirs was also very predictable. We have, in your opinion, been evading responsibilities for eight months. I think that in the Block, in general, what they've been doing is three months of leftovers, but we'll see about that. [[Laughter]] I'm going to start with the difficulty, because it's easy now. You can't preach the consensus, and the first one is going to play with certain issues, like these I just told you. But what is strange to me is in a person like you, that in many things I have to admit that it progresses properly, to be confused that as the advisor of the Fairy is responsible for the IGE, which says the IGE about the Greek homes; that's why it already is. [[Laughter]] Look: I honestly promise you this one who talks to you, since you're right, the level of driving on what it depends on must rub a zero Kelvin. At the IGE there are prepared people who have to draw up studies, statistics mostly based on the plan, the planning we have, which I already tell them there will be a law for the next period and the annual program. And then the indicators come out, and sometimes we like them, sometimes we don't like them, but I honestly promise them they don't get better or worse because I'm the one who runs them. That's what scares me from interpreting that things go well when I run them one, not when they're objective data from a statistical point of view. Allow me not to. How do you speak of concrete proposals for shortcomings? Home! please, just read the title of my intervention. I've come to talk about strategic guidelines or fundamental lines of this legislation. Don't make me part of bringing here names and surnames all who made the China Wall. Order of self-help. I think sooner or later they'll look at that point, very little by little, certain changes. That's where the shots go, because we're perfectly aware of the reality that is living in our business ecosystem, where obviously the part of the autonomous is a fundamental value, in general, with deep restrictions and limitations throughout this whole stage in most of the subsectors that make up our economy. Eight months evading responsibilities. This government and this councillor, in a board of directors -- I think that it was on the second week of April -- we went to the first autonomous community to put and shoot everything in our hands at that time, when we didn't know the amount, and we were the first to activate the big contracts that this autonomous administration has and the big investments. As the spokesperson for the People's Party has just said, our historical investment has become enormously superior to the rest of autonomous communities. We know how to put it in value because that's a very important value. Why am I telling them this? There are communities today that haven't activated anything, because they can't. Their investments, being these significantly smaller than ours, have not been activated in a way as fast as the recruitment was. Something will have to see the differential, when we set it up in the second half, with the proposed action as well. There is something that also escapes everyone, which seems to me to remember that it was 5th or 6th June -- eight months that tell you that we are standing -- and that is that we have a plan of plans -- it's something that I understand that some people have a hard time understanding, but it's the ease we can give from the Business Council -- the Economic and Social Reactivation Plan. Three thousand forty-three million euros, of which 1,741 million are by activation of different sources, the main source being, by its quantitative amount, the rearrangement of shares we have in the board budget, by having an approved budget, which not all have. And we're still wrong that we're wrong. But in addition, the structure of this plan was very clear. First, Health, 450 million euros as a minimum guarantee. Second, Social Policy. Does anyone not realize that health and social policy are the first two to be faced with in any plan, and this was already planned before the first week of June? One hundred and five million euros. Employment, 297 million euros in a direct way, 28.7 million euros per mobilisation. The rest, perfectly ordered in various actions that were degrading the various advisors in the part of Economics, Tourism, Culture, the Rural Environment, the Council of the Sea and the Living, and so on, also of Education, until it came to that. That you can put us in the face, those concretions? Many of them have already been advanced by each advisor or counselor in the first stage and at this current stage. And for me it is an honour that this special committee exists here in Parliament and that we can all complete. Because the temporal horizon of the Reactivation Plan as formulated: something more than three billion euros and for the years 2020 and 2021, to accelerate execution. But it's just that, in addition, you're already ahead of you in a week or two, when you start to get to know the expenditure ceiling, when you start to know what the budget might be, your other debate, that all of this will be out of the question we're going to talk about. So this one who talks to them, you who needed your messages so much, wants to talk about three consensuses: Public services, 100 percent of vacancies. I've already told him until satiety, I can't be. I'm going to be very clear once again: delete the replenishment rate. Your replenishment rate is what you are conditioning to take any job. I'm telling you more: the replenishment rate is a massive deception, from back doors and doors forward. No, welcome back! [[Mrs. Presas Berganginos exclaimed: Welcome!]] You're very young, you're very young, you're very young. It's a massive deception for stability, so we've seen it say, it's a massive economic deception. [[Applause]] And of course I can't be. I understand that some of you are relatively young and everything is a deja vu of our elders. Don't man!, you're sure I'm already surprised you didn't do anything to help your friends. [[The councillor for the Fairy and Public Administration is addressed to a member of the Galician Nationalist Block.]] [[Laughter]] Public services. We the progressives, we the nationalists, don't. It changes the replenishment rate once and for all, and we'll see who meets and who doesn't, like at the moment, we'll see who does and who doesn't. [[Applause]] And besides, this is a back-door deception, because you would never get back the increment of templates that we're having, that sometimes you also deny it. When we're talking about staffing increases in the health field, in the social field and all that, with the rate of replacement we'd never get. It's the tale of the turtle and the hare. We'd never get there, it's a mistake, as well as a door to the future. If we know that statistically 95% of people retire when they reach this age, we could be proactive. And since it takes us a long time to make public job offers, to solve these, about a year and something at best, year and a half normally, why don't we do them in advance, why don't we? Interestingly, this is how it is done in the European Union. Why don't we? Because you don't want it, because it's very easy to say: we progressives, and we already have everything solved, or we nationalists, and I solve it. Powerful investment. I have already told you: Galicia in the last decade is the Community which has the greatest investment considered. We'll go along the same line, because we don't have another one. We deeply believe that to get out of this we have to get out of it in a positive way. This means having sufficient control over current spending and this means that all of our resources must have a very clear orientation, and not only quantitative but qualitative, to which we can make differentially so that they can reside here. Science and innovation, fundamental pillar of the previous ship, of the program. We've got to keep fixing. And when we've been told from certain forums that we're not doing it, all we have to do is correct what we have to correct, affect the public domain. But in science, research and innovation, you all know that the main water we have right now is civil activation, of a private nature. That's what's giving us a bigger differential. So we're going that way. What's strange to me is that you must be getting older. Tax model. When Mrs. Presas says that the tax model is contrary to the interests of the majority of society, curiously, I think that if she had asked the fifteen and twenty thousand people who today have seen themselves sharers of that kind of benefit, I think they wouldn't agree with you. And by the way, talking about social majority when July 12 has just pronounced the electoral body and has just put everyone... is that it's always good to talk about social majority, mostly social. [[Applause]] Put on the long lights. We have to put the long, the short, the position ones, depending on each situation. It's just that I don't explain these classes and this magnetism we have. [[Laughter]] It's amazing, really! I suppose in every place you'll have to put the position, the shorts, the longs. I drive little lately, because I can't with this arm, but I think it's been that way before, there's time, and it's still like this. Don't just put on long lights, woman! or don't you put them as a representative of what it isn't. Financing. And every time we talk about funding, we go to the same thing: autonomic and local. I'm willing, of course, I'm willing to talk about everything. Because I repeat again: it is so difficult the situation in which we find ourselves economically and socially that everything is welcome, apart from the intelligence that everyone has, that the fundamental value is to make it operational and, above all, to count on the resources, whether of the European Union, the Spanish State, the Autonomous Community, the local administrations... But you know as well as I do that all this has to be by consensus, but with a certain level of nobility. Because I've been here talking about this camera myself when it was 204 million euros famous. But it's just that the 204 million euros that are for the autonomous administration, the VAT was also for the deputies and local corporations in about 43 or 44, I think I remember. Not those; since they're not from the Board, they don't ask the master armor. I mean, it can't be! Like when we talk about the Union having to help. Of course you do, of course you have to help, of course you do. Won't it be easier for Members to help out with the 600 million euros that have leftovers? Oh, that's not it. Wouldn't it be better if the municipalities, which aren't all of them in different fur, which have about seven hundred and peak millions of euros, also mark their priorities? And from there on, the Union will also be the first to collaborate. [[Applause]] As when, by the way, we've always come to talk about local funding. This autonomous community throughout the whole stage from 2009 to now is the second autonomous community, yes — and I say it with a full mouth — where unconditional funding that goes to the councils is the second highest in all of Spain, in absolute terms. However, we never put it in value. It won't be easier, instead of playing these things, to agree, they are bigger, we too, in matters that we have in common, and say, this goes this way, this goes to everyone's participation right now, etc.Is that what you're talking about? Because, if not, we'll never give. Because it's not so important, Mrs Presas, at the end of the day, to mark a limit of EUR 13 billion from what can come from European funds. And if we stay in twelve thousand, Mrs. Presas, what if we stay in eleven thousand, what if we stay in ten thousand? It's not only a question of size, that too, but a question of doing things right. Because to see if we realize that the most important thing is that there is or can be a fluidity approach to mature and structured projects, theme number one. But, theme number two, that same perspective, if we are able to keep it going, it will allow another type of funding that has nothing to do with, and most importantly, it will contribute to that new economic reality that we deserve for the next decade, and there will be more employment and better employment, and we will not be here talking about the same mantras, as you said: cry them out. It's not bad to cry from time to time, Mrs. Presas. Tell him that he's from Cangas and that as he knows, "to cry from Cangas." [[Applause]] To discuss the ten main issues that the Business Council has, let me say, which is relatively easy. And I'm not really sober, but they make it very easy, yes, especially for the laughter of some. [[Laughter]] To say that we have to draw up an budget doesn't disagree with it. No one did so as the Autonomous Community of Galicia on an uninterrupted basis; as the jurists say: no continuity solution in the last forty years. Now we realize, and we all ask for a budget. Welcome to the club! But the important thing about budgeting is having it formally as much as before and, above all, well structured. This budget that's coming will be a very, very, very special budget for the situation we're living in. You don't have to be afraid of him, by the way. Secondly, talk about the whole situation of the Strategic Plan as a real orientation. I think anyone would, don't you? Until we're wrong, Mrs. Rumbo. Even if we don't even achieve certain goals, we're going to walk towards the common goal. That's why the units of measurement are here. The important thing is not so much the units of measurement, but rather the goals, the magnitudes, the indicators, which are what measure it, to go and guide us what we're going to do. That's what we're going to talk about, and I don't think it's a very long time, because I'm talking about a year, I don't think anyone... by the way, I don't know another autonomous community that has strategic plans like the Galician, of similar caliber, of similar size, uh! Don't get any better or worse, I say in a universal way. They're talking about stabilization, public employment, more than 10,000 squares during the legislation, and they're talking about teleworking, social agreement, real social dialogue. When you read even today's newspapers and look at other examples at the central level, so dear to other groups, because you start to tremble at these kinds of issues. Negotiating doesn't always mean reaching agreement, but you don't have to be afraid of social dialogue, knowing that we're often in the background. But it's even good to come to this kind of conclusion. They're also talking about a question that we never value enough, but that all the civil domain, every citizen, every small, autonomous, small, medium, large companies, big corporations, our corporations, not our big corporations. There are issues of a qualitative nature that we must deal with among all of us, such as simplification of administrative procedures, temporary simplification, axillization, therefore; making things easier without losing an apex in the rigour that we must have as a public organization. There are many examples of what we can do. I think that's the time, and that's almost as important as having about a billion euros, Mrs Presas. Keep paying. We never realize that continuing to pay is what leads us to an immense reputation, which allows us to place our emissions better, that our loans call our door and we don't call them at their door, that we have a volume of debt that actually has grown much, but it remains the one that has grown from all over Spain these years. A structured debt allows us to have a fully controlled level of interest for this legislation and about half of what it comes from. I think that's not bad, mark them as a target. And in fiscal policy I have to repeat it so that the ideas remain very clear: when we can continue selectively lowering taxes or not so selectively. This is a government that believes in it, that has demonstrated it; that money comes in the hands of businesses and at the level of citizens is the best we can do from a liberal perspective. By the way, we'll see the settlement data this year, which we all have. Like some mantras that some of them kept aren't kept when we look at the numbers, and we'll keep talking, talking and talking. I do have to keep talking. I repeat again: the most important thing, Mrs Presas, is to believe ourselves when we talk about these consensus; to really use the commissions that we have opened, in this case of special study; to change what we have to change; to put everything down, to put numbers on it, knowing that everything we have is enough but it will not come. But let's prioritize, let's do it, let's not be afraid of the civil domain. If we do, we'll succeed, knowing it's a very complicated matter, and I'm not going to deny it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u51	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We started a special round of clarifications, with the Government's duplicity. The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor to Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, budgeting is the most important document of a government, it is the document that defines the policy that will be developed in this case in our community, and therefore it is in your advisorship where this document is materialized. Ratify me in the words I said initially. Following a little bit of the exposition I was making earlier, the latest reports published by the International Monetary Fund warn us that Spain is going to be one of the most economically affected countries and that recovery is going to be in the form of K. That is, those people with greater resources or stable jobs will have an ever-increasing online recovery, while the most vulnerable people and those with more precarious jobs will have a downward decline, increasing the already existing inequalities between our population. Among these most vulnerable populations — the International Monetary Fund — are those with lower education, immigrants, but also young people. And in the same sense, it is seen in the third "Report of a Socio-Economic Set 2020", published by the Galician Economic Forum. Now, the Galician Union has to decide what policies it will apply in budgets 2021 to help workers, self-employed people, businesses and the most vulnerable people towards this 2021. In the next budget, they must show what their wager is for health, economics and the most disadvantaged. Mr. Puy in his speech said that we must celebrate that you announce us today here that the budgets will be presented in this parliament before the end of November, but what I wanted to say to you, Mr. Puy, is that the socialists what we want to celebrate is whether the data will help businesses, self-employed people, the workers, the most vulnerable people, if they are going to bet on R & D+I, industry, health, education, the sea, the rural environment. That's what we want to celebrate, and not just that they come in time in this parliament. You also pointed out, Counsellor, that Members could do something, but that a few days ago the Crown's own Deputy announced a EUR 12.5 million plan for self-employed and microenterprises affected by the coronavirus. And I also tell you that not only this year, not only about the vault, but they've been applying and making available to all the municipalities in the province local employment plans, this year in particular 23 million euros. So take the example and don't talk about the example that doesn't do the rest of the administrations. [[Applause]] Counsellor, you were talking about the Community's indebtedness. The truth is, I do not think we handle the same data, since the Community has multiplied it into more than 2.5 years of the People's Party's government, reaching almost twelve billion euros in the second quarter of 2020, and from 8.6% of GDP to 19.6% in the second quarter of 2020. And by the way, the Board of Auditors, year by year, in the control reports of the Autonomous Community General Account, has led to the significant increase in the German debt in recent years. However, indebtedness to socialists would not be a problem if it had been used to fix population, increase social and territorial cohesion, increase the level and quality of employment, reduce poverty levels for the most vulnerable population, invest in R & D+I, implement support programs for the business and industrial sector, work towards a digital transition, or real policies for gender equality. But none of that was a priority of Mr. Núñez Feijó's governments over these years. By the way, Counsellor, will you take advantage of the 2021 budgets on the path of the deficit that will allow the state to push the growth of Galicia for anyone to stay behind? The truth is, the time I have left is very little and so I'm going to go by the end of my exhibition, and I have some things not painty. Mr. President of the Galician Union announced a few days ago a series of projects, in particular seven, to opt for the European next generation EU funds. By the way, there are no announcements of these projects in the German Parliament, as announced by the President of the Galician Union. I mean, one more sample of that tending hand that says the PP you're going to do, but that actually doesn't do it later. We all know, and you're also because you keep talking about them, that these funds are absolutely necessary for our economy and for our society, not to miss that train. And I ask you, Mr Counsellor, will the Government of Greece press for its party, the People's Party in Congress of Deputies, to vote in favour of budgets in the State of 2021, to help this country not sink and not lose those funds?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u53	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u54	Or will you follow your head of ranks, Mr. Married, and allow him to continue to speak ill of his country in the European Union, discrediting Spain and discrediting all its institutions, showing a failure of that patriotism of what he usually does?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u55	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u56	You keep thinking, Counselor, and you keep betting on that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u57	Thank you, your time is up. Thank you, Rodríguez Rumbo. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo speaks words that are not perceived.]] No, look at the weather, please, that we're going very badly today. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u58	I'm glad you liked my speech, Mr. Martínez. I missed him too. But jokes aside, look: if something doesn't practice this political organization or this Member is an ananism. I would also recommend that you leave a little of this paternalism that characterizes them. [[Applause]] And I'm telling you one thing: I, today, the difference between many people of my generation, am a privilege, because I have a payroll at the end of the month to be able to live, because I know I'm going to be able to buy food and I'm going to be able to pay for my living. But if there's anything that allows me to know my age, my generational subscription, it's precisely the consequences of the bad decisions of this 2008 economic crisis. Let me know something too, remember, which is something very important. I don't know where you were in 2011, but I tell you where I was: I was responding to that rate of rest in the streets, in the strikes and in the social movement that was then. And today it changed where I have to do it, but it hasn't changed my mind. [[Applause]] The ones who changed their mind are you. So don't get angry if we welcome them, because it's the least we can do: to distrust their bare cause. In any case, we are moving forward — especially for the Members and Members who join in this legislation — because these four years they have come to tell us that the opposition did not know what the IGE was. I'm telling you -- don't manipulate my words -- is that, man! if I'm subscribed to the Bulletin and I see what the IGE reports weekly, because I imagine you would also see those data that certify that poverty is consolidated in this country. Don't manipulate, that's what I'm telling you, that's the highest responsibility for Fairy, who knows this data perfectly and who still comes to this parliament and doesn't commit to a plan to address the social emergency that exists in our country today. And the same is true of the situation of self-employed and self-employed, who are directly affected by this perimetric closure. [[Applause]] And I repeat every word I said. In fact, they haven't served their duties for eight months. And that strategic plan, for now, is a press release in which we must blindly trust since the opposition. Because those are the consensus that the People's Party asks us: you give a press round, a headline, and we have to come here to make permanent worship to the beloved leader and tell him that we actually agree. That's not a consensus, Mr. Martínez. Just as it is not a consensus, what they are trying to do with the issue of European funds. But before you get into that here, you come very comfortable in a magical world where Galicia is supposed to be great before the pandemic and which, therefore, we are great now to endure. And they come with half truths, because, for example, it went out repeatedly in its intervention and in the other voice what the Economic Forum says about the forecasts of our country. And indeed, the fall in gross domestic product was slightly lower than the State. But it also tells us something very interesting if we read the whole paragraph: just as it happened in previous crises, this initial impact is lower than the one recorded in the state as a whole; if well the post-crisis recovery has so far been much slower than in the Spanish economy. And they also tell us that it's a much higher fall than that experienced in the countries of the euro area. And the question we're asking from the BNG is, if we fall slower, we can't anticipate and we can't take action, what does it do if we're going to get back any longer, Mr. Martínez? That is the question on which you have to intervene and the question on which we want to come up with proposals. On the positive, yes. But they don't take our hair as on the issue of European funds. [[Applause]] Well, your argument is basically that size doesn't matter and that, therefore, you don't have to put a figure to which our country must aspire. This is like who goes to an exam and says, whether it has to take out a 4, or a 4.5, or a 9. No, we put figures and criteria and steps on the table, Mr. Martínez. And, of course, you say we're leftovers; not leftovers. But let me tell you what you've been doing the Galician Nationalist Block on this issue and what you haven't been doing either the Government or the Group of the People's Party, which is at least introducing this issue into the debate, making proposals, putting this on the table. You reacted when the President of the State of the Walking Government came to give a few figures, and then they said, we have to do another power point, which we have to conceal by making us do. But that's not the way, Mr. Martínez. And, in fact, I hope they have more political weight, because the question is that you're ruling and you're not doing your homework. I asked you a very clear question: are you going to demand the territorialized management of these funds, yes or no? Are you going to claim that at least Galicia has around 13 billion euros, yes or no? Are you going to claim compensation for such important cut funds as the energy transition, yes or no? Will they transmit the criteria that should be taken into account from the State for that distribution, yes or no? We have proposals for what criteria to put on the table! But, as you will understand, if you refuse to give a presentation and commend all the debates on a future which is equally late, for there is no way, Mr Martínez. So this is the question: today there is a social and economic emergency in our country, and you look elsewhere when you have direct action to implement immediately. And they don't put those long lights on big challenges in our country either...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u59	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u60	...such as that funding or like funds. When they want to, we're going to make the responsible opposition from the Nationalist Block in Galicia that you don't do elsewhere and we're going to be there with a proactive and serious attitude. Because all you do is come here and try to ridicule the opposition and continue on its way, but of course, having Members and Members does not assure them that they are right. And, of course, they should learn and correct. And this appearance...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u61	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u62	...it's not a good start for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy Fraga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u64	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Well, briefly. Mrs. Rumbo, the budgets I think it's a good news coming. They don't come in time, and they don't come in time because the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council we've been asking for for months to know what the fundamental lines of budgeting would allow us to move forward because it hasn't been convened until recently, and not all the full information has been given. But budgets come up, and that's something very relevant. I'm not going to do it is to fall into the ridiculous putting it to you like it's a Welsh antipatriot because it doesn't support the budgets, without knowing them, of the Council of Galicia. I'm going to give you at least the benefit of the doubt, which you don't give to the People's Party in Madrid, and present the budgets to see what they count. Because you are asking for an unconditional vote, which, first, I believe, is not the place and secondly, it seems to me to be a rather ambitious target. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And he mentioned some IMF report, and related to budgets, I think it's interesting to also understand the difficulties the Council will have in carrying out these budgets. The IMF — which I believe is not the same — is a parallel report on the growth of the Spanish economy, which hopes a growth for Spain of 5.4 % of GDP in the following year in 2021. And the Government of Spain hopes to increase by 7.2%, the European Commission almost supports it by 7.1%. But apart from the IMF, which predicted 5.4%, the Banco de España predicted 4.1%, and the FDE predicted 5%. You know perfectly well the influence this has on public income. So I think it's a good news that the budget comes, and the first thing to do is to thank the officials of a council, who are working around with just information. I'm not going to bounce data, but I think it's important to say some. The per capita GDP of Galicia between 2009 and 2019 grew by 13.66%, that of Spain by 9.57%. The unemployment rate, which in Galicia in 2009 was one hundred and sixty-one thousand people, is now one hundred and forty-hundred and forty-one thousand; a decrease of 13%; and the rate dropped from 12.6 to 11.3%. The average income convergence per person with Spain was from 2009 to 2019 of 11.9 % increase, while in Spain the same income grew by 3.2%. And the average income per unit of consumption in Galicia grew by 10 percent, while in Spain by 10 years it grew by 1.4%. As a result, the poverty risk rate, which in Galicia was higher in 2009 than the average of Spain: 20.6-20.4%, is today a point below that of Spain, 20 compared to 20.7 % — if the AROPE rate is used it will be the same—. And what is important: from the evolution of the labour market, the wages that grew in Spain about 6.8 since 2009, in Galicia made a 12.3. And I want to point out that in women the increase was 10.6 in Galicia and 6.3 in Spain. So I think with this data we can certainly predict that we have greater reaction capacity together with good financial management. Madam Presas, I, the truth is, I understand that you've been on the street asking for the abolition of the replenishment rate, but the fact is that it goes on without removing; it hasn't been effective. And the Board is asking for it, too, and the reality is that the replacement rate is still there. So now you're in Congress and we're going to see if they can do it. And the People's Party has been asking for it in Congress too a long time ago. Well, that's fine, but the case is that the replenishment rate goes on, that's the problem. So don't blame the Union for not returning when it depends on a decision taken at the Congress of Deputies by the Government of Spain, to which you support. [[Applause]] On the subject of the funds to me, he also called me a little attention that he had started calling the Union Government a "choiriciary", and the next thing he did was to ask for 13 billion euros from European funds. By the way, 400 million more than he asked for his leadership these last days -- he's now turned around. We're talking about ten percent of the total that goes to the state as a whole and for some projects that have, of course, a range that goes beyond the autonomous communities. Well, asking 9% is fine, but that's going to a test saying, if you don't take a 14 and I qualify it to 10 because you're going to suspend. Well, look, we're going to try to do things right, present the projects right. You say you've done your homework instead of the board, and I haven't heard -- and I'd be grateful if you'd made it public -- no project of economic reactivation of Galicia that arose from the block, not a single project! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The board has several presentations, you haven't presented any, and less today in this chamber. Not one single project of economic reactivation in Galicia! Which doesn't mean they don't have it. That's why we're going to see that they bring the reactivating committee. I believe that the predisposition of the Government of the Union and the People's Parliamentary Group to take advantage of the good projects that you seem to have designed for the economic reactivation of Galicia, which could even reach the twelve billion euros for Galicia, will be very welcome, of course they will be very welcome! [[Applause]] But first, we have to introduce them. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Well, I'm done. I think the exhibition that the councillor made to us goes along the line of what all economic experts in all countries, in all international bodies are saying what to do. The first is to fight the pandemic; we must overcome the health crisis and therefore support it. The first and fundamental is health. The advisor realized what is being done both with the reorganization of the expenditure and with the recruitment of staff...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u65	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u66	...during the pandemic. Secondly, to endure employment and businesses, which are in difficulty precisely by the pandemic and which would be viable if this pandemic had not happened. Thirdly, keep that soft support for the future when reactivation begins. And fourthly, we're going to have to face the results that we're left in public accounts with this investment effort that we're making. That's the line that marked the counselor, and I think it's reasonable and sensible; that at the bottom we all agree quite well on this line and that, therefore, we encourage and thank the counselor who deepens it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u67	Thank you, Mr. Puy. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Close the courtroom, Conseilante de Fanda e Administración Pública.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u68	Thank you again, Mr. President. Mrs. Rodríguez, the example you have just given of the Crown Deputy, I think it's the right thing to do; just like the Crown Deputy, they're taking care of, because they can, the topic of self-employment, the subject of employment plans. That's what I was referring to when we have to agree from the largest up to what's not so big. The size is just as important in everyone when it comes to merging, not overlapping, trying to help and put all resources. I appreciate something I've heard but I didn't know the absolute magnitude — I'm sorry — I think you just said twelve million euros for self-employment and twenty million for employment plans, don't you? And I really appreciate this data. What I would like to say is that with the rest of 240-250 million still remaining in the Crown Deputies we would also work unscathed for this; I say to put a little bit in touch when some county of the Coruna province comes to ask the Board to cover some of the other slots without first going to the clean source. [[Applause]] I've already told you before I'm afraid of your debt. Debt is a question of size, of structure of what debt is worth. I think it's pretty good, despite that 2.5 factor, that you say -- it's the same data. What happens is that the rest is in a 4 or a 5 multiplication, it's not in a 2.5 factor -- and we're the least -- But debt, above all, is not so much the size, the structure or what it costs — that too — but what we do with it in those interesting projects that we have to do. It's a more funding resource to which you don't have to be afraid of if you're perfectly default in absolute magnitude and distribution. Man, allow me two shrapnels at the end. The deficit path that the State will allow — in his words a little as if we were children of a lesser god — is a little less than the state. I honestly promise you I have no original sin, neither this administration nor this government. They don't have to allow us anything. We have a concept of political autonomy so high, so high, so high, that even for that we ask permission. Because we didn't ask permission for Professor Puy very well, and then I won't stop at all, that the national PP votes in favour of budgets. [[Applause]] You'll have to meet them first, won't you? What's ahead of you is that it's going to be very difficult for the national PP, on our part, to vote in favour if it's something like the last budget we knew, where territorialized investment in our autonomous community was falling down to similar magnitudes that I think the Mariana ditch was left in a geological anecdote. [[Applause]] Madam Presas, I am always willing to learn, always, always. I didn't know where I was in 2011, I swear to God I didn't worry too much either. Neither with you nor with anyone, I don't put myself into anyone's life, go ahead. What is true is that, when you talk about this question, it is the employment rate — in part you have already answered quite well the spokesperson for the PP, Mr Puy — of course, that the replacement rates for which they are approved are in the Courts, in Parliament. Yes, but it is important to bear in mind that you, of course, in 2011 were in a certain manifestation, but your party, of what you are spokesperson at this time, turns out that it was approving in 2008 and 2009 the highest rate of replenishment in history. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] 100% went to 30%. [[Applause]] Ma'am, check it out. I know, I know that the Block is given too much to "a" and "b" being both antithetics, and being in the street and with the hammer giving and, on the other hand, such... You can't be at all, you have to be a little older, even as an organization. You can't be voting in favour of these famous budgets, with a government of the same color as what was then—PSOE—to lower the rate of replacement from 100% to 30%, the biggest download in the history that was in Spain, in Spain! I understand that he keeps going to the demonstrations to take the opposite, to see if someone doesn't know that in the morning I say one thing and that at night I say another but he doesn't go there. Look at the hemerothecs, and I also leave this to you, and since you've been making good progress lately, look, if so, who's responsible for each subject. [[Applause]] But, said this, that it is no longer more than a chascarrillo, the most important thing is that the situation in which we find ourselves -- we must not forget it -- is very, very, very complicated. At least in the first half of the legislation, we're going to have health complications -- we're having them -- and social problems are already being perceived. We don't have to go to the University of Santiago, Vigo or Coruña to find out about that social reality that we all started to know first-hand. And there are indicators that don't convince us all. You have to realize this, two very difficult years are coming from that side. But I think we should all be able to meet these needs and challenges. I assure you that, apart from some chascarrillo on my part, the German Government will do everything possible, what we have in our hand, to meet the needs. I'm sure it'll be a lot and we won't get to all of them. But go ahead with our way of working, with dedication and funding everything we can. And for that we don't forget that the main tool that has any government is an budget, and for this reason we're maximizing work, where we already have a certain level of experience. It's never enough, but we'll try, as soon as we can, to have the ceiling in this House and, consequently, very soon afterwards, what the budgets would already be for the year 2021. If we do, technically I think you'll lose very little time of the year already begun, and it'll be fine for everything. Because a budget is not so much that between day 1, day 2 or day 3, but most importantly that all the development can be enriched and, above all, that the main economic and social actors, from the largest to the most humble — all equal to important — know where the shots of the economic policy that we are going to give ourselves go. We will therefore seek to draw up the best possible budgets at this time and deliver them as soon as possible. But, as I said, we must appreciate how much you all have done at this last stage with that activation of the new special commission. We must use the committee, the committee we agree on. I think it's a very good tool to deal with measures and actions. We're sure we won't get to the EUR 13,000 million, which we were told a moment ago, but we're sure to be some more than we all have in mind if we know how to do it right. I use it to insist on the need, and also on the responsibility at this time individually and collectively, to minimize risks and make them as much as possible. On the part of the Greek Government, our commitment to take necessary measures at all times must also be compatible with the support and protection of the groups that will indeed be affected. But we're going to use all our financial power to minimize this kind of affect. So, in essence, what I'm doing is a call to understanding. I think it's a lot of the needs we have to meet, I think it's a lot of the difficulties we're going to have to overcome, and many of the challenges we have to face. But we will have more possibilities to overcome these needs, these difficulties and these challenges if we work together with a single goal: to protect the life and well-being of the Greeks and the Greeks. And thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u69	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Comparison of the Social Policy Adviser, on his own request, to report on the general forecasts and lines of action of his department
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u70	To make this appearance, you have the floor of the Social Policy Advisor, Mrs. Fabiola García Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I compare today to the plenary session of Parliament in Galicia to take account of the general lines of action which will follow the Council of Galicia in social matters throughout this legislation. The whole world is currently living in an exceptional context, an international pandemic that has won many plans and projects, and has forced us all to reprogram our agenda of priorities. Citizens come to their governments, here in Galicia and everywhere, in search of answers to a situation where it has only given us time to ask the right questions. Challenges that were priorities a few months ago had to be postponed, and problems that were not conceived in any planning have now jumped to the top of the emergency calendar. Ladies and gentlemen, this pandemic has reminded us and will always remind us of the enormous importance of the social protection network in which Galicia has been working for many years: the well-being of older people, the support of all families with children, the support of the youngest children in Galicia, the possibilities for young people, the facilities for people with disabilities and also more opportunities for homes at risk or in situations of special vulnerability. The previous work that Galicia has done with some governments, and in which efforts have been redoubled since 2009, allows us to deal with this pandemic with better tools than we had a few years ago. In the face of the most complex health and social challenge in recent history, Galicia relies on the most comprehensive and agile protection network our community has ever had. There is still much to go on and there are present and future problems to which we must give a successful solution, but to do so successfully we must sink into the formula of unity, cooperation and the vision of the future which this country has always applied to prosper. The urgency at this time is to cushion the impact of the covid-19 on Greek citizenship, especially on its most vulnerable members, but we cannot forget that society expects us to continue to bear in mind the challenges they face in their day-to-day life and so many of their families. In my presence today, of course, I will speak of the present moment. But let me also refer to the future, because, just as today we can feel very proud of the work of those who have preceded us, once we have overcome the pandemic we must be able to leave to those who happen to us a more socially strong, more solidarity and more dynamic Galicia; a Galicia where our children can develop their project of life in freedom, knowing that when they need it, the other Greeks and the other Greeks will be there to support them. This intergenerational pact translates very much into that veneration by the older people who are in the German people's DNA, not just because they and they are owed everything we are but also because they still have a lot to say to make our society a better society. In these days there is a thread that unites the Greeks with the Catalans, with the extremities, with the French, with the Canadians or with the Israelis: the concern about the impact of the pandemic on the homes of older people. No country in the world, however advanced it is, was fully prepared for what it came. We're talking about a virus that entered houses, went into offices, and also went into different public institutions, but nothing to worry about as much as the larger centers, because of the vulnerability of the people who reside in them. Over the past few months the Galician Union has worked to translate this collective concern into concrete measures that serve to contain the progress of the virus. In the area of prevention, Galicia had protocols before the set of Spain. Today, all the residences of our community apply a catalogue of measures that combine health protection with the preservation of the emotional well-being of our greatest. You guarantee your right to receive family visits in all cases, at all levels of risk. In fact, Junta has just created a map, an accessible map from our website, in which you can consult in what situation the residences of each and every one of Galician municipalities are in. In this way, families can know the precautions that are being applied at all and at every major center in our community, and it's completely up-to-date every day. In the field of early detection, Galicia is the only autonomous community in Spain that performs a quintennial seizure in all larger centers and allows to identify as soon as possible the existence of a infection. And with regard to the response, whenever the quality of care has been endangered in any residence, the Galician Union has acted. In these seven months, we have participated in commercial, social-initiative centres, large centres, small centres, urban centres and rural centres. The criterion has always been, in all cases, exclusively health care. In the area of care for contaminated residents, Galicia has launched integrated residences, which have been pioneers at the national level and which are already being studied in other countries as well. In them the elderly with coronavirus received first-level attention specialized in their illness. And, in fact, I'm pleased to announce today before this House that they are already available, to start when necessary, two integrated residences here in Galicia, one in Vigo and one in Santiago. [[Applause]] For the major centers throughout Galicia these were months of great concern but they were also months of professionalism, commitment and much heroism. I'll never get tired of highlighting the excellent performance of the vast majority of the staff working in Galician residences, which he played to fight the pandemic from the front line. Assistants, caregivers, nursing staff, kitchen, cleaning staff or management teams, all of them, sent a message of trust to all those families that give the homes of older care to the people they want most. The health and socio-sanitary professionals who worked under unpublished circumstances to ensure the health and well-being of our elders deserve all our recognition and all our gratitude. Even though every news, every personal situation, and every statistic, hurt us, the indicators reflect that Galician residences resisted better than other parts of Spain and the world. Every residence that was shielded against the virus, every center where the infections were minimized, every older person who contracted the coronavirus and could be cured — some of them over 100 years old — and the fact that more than 90% of Galician residences are completely free of coronavirus proves that it is neither realistic nor fair nor responsible to seek to amend the entire residential system of Galicia. I'm sorry, everyone, each and every 363 deaths that were recorded among Galician residents because of the coward. I share the pain of all those families who lost a loved one before time. For all of them, we're working to bring about more solutions every day. In this pandemic we learn a lot, we learn a lot. Today the oldest residences in Galicia are better prepared in all areas to respond to an infectious disease. The protocols currently in force in Galicia are among the most complete, the most comprehensive and the most advanced in the world, and they recompile scientific evidence and lessons from the past few months. I have no doubt that we will continue to improve throughout this legislation. And I hope, ladies and gentlemen, we can really do this together. Today I would like to invite all political parties to join an autonomous pact to further improve residential care from the premise, as always, of realism and responsibility. That is why we are going to forward to the Reconstruction Commission, the Galician Parliament, and the representatives of the sector a document with the strategic lines of the new model of residence we are proposing. This initial project will, of course, be open to the constructive approaches of political groups, so that we can all put our little grain of sand so that Galician residences can continue to evolve. We must not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that zero risk does not exist at the moment. While a vaccine is not available, what we must do is work to reduce that risk to the minimum possible, with protocols, with scribes, with training, with greater socio-health coordination, with continuous inspections to detect possible non-compliances and with a supply of stable and centralized material by the Union of Galicia. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that you can count on your collaboration to give the Greek families what you need most at this time: trust, tranquility and certainty; trust, peace and certainty to face a situation that has changed everyone's way of life. Tasks that were already complex, such as conciliation, now also present new difficulties. That is why I am taking advantage of this forum to remember one of the commitments which the Galician Parliament unanimously approved less than a month ago: to urge the Central Government to approve a permit paid to mothers and parents with children in quarantine, as it had undertaken. Timing of instability requires axile administrations and brave administrations that meet the needs of the Greek families. And on that line there are three pioneering decisions that Galicia will implement in this legislation. First of all, I'm especially proud that Galicia is the only community in which child education is totally free for the second and next children, that she is the age of her first child. This is a measure that can already enjoy more than fourteen thousand Greek families, both in the public children's schools of the Union of Galicia and in practice all private and social-initiative schools, and also in the municipal infant schools of all those municipalities that want to join — this figure which, by course, grows every day. [[Applause]] I have full confidence that this decision in Galicia will become a model to follow at the national level. I hope that soon we can also achieve the commitment of the Central Government so that the families of the rest of Spain can have the same benefits as the Greek families, and that in our community the first children can also have access to child education in a completely free way. In this way, in Galicia no family will be deprived of their economic capacity to have a top-level childhood education in centres that have demonstrated their great adaptability these months. During the confinement and despite the closure of his activity, the Greek Government gave them the economic facilities needed to resist, to acquaint itself with the new reality and also to train all the staff, which we formed from the Galician Union. And with the return to school, all the children's schools in Galicia have resumed their operation with absolute normality and strictly applying very strict protocols designed to protect children and to protect workers as well. Secondly, Galicia will also be vanguarded with the approval of the Demographic impulse Act. When Parliament debates, enriches and approves this important legal text in the coming weeks, we will be the only Spaniards we have with a law dedicated to population dynamization. This law deals with demography from all its prisms, from economic aid to conciliation facilities, support for youth, the impulse of territorial balance, active aging and incentives for the return of the Greeks who are abroad — a factor that was also key to the growth of the population of Greece during the year 2019 for the first time in the last decade. In order for the Demographic Impulse Law to meet its objectives, it needs to be a law that lasts in time. That's why it must not be assumed as a law of government, it must be assumed as a law of country. I am confident that the parliamentary debate will help bring this text into line with the new circumstances caused by the coward-19 and that we will thus feel the foundation of an ambitious demographic policy and a long-term demographic policy. [[Applause]] The third of the demographic pioneering measures that will see the light in this legislation is that families with two children and all single-parent families will have the same tax benefits for IRPF purposes as large families. This equation will be translated into a deduction of EUR 250 in the autonomic section of the full share of the IRPF. And, in parallel, Galicia will support, more strongly, the numerous families who have a fundamental role in successfully confronting our population challenge. That is why all these families will benefit from EUR 250 for each child from the third — including this — and, in addition, with the adoption over the next few weeks of a large family plan that will include specific measures for this group, such as discounts in the prices or prices reduced in the parking lot of the Greek hospitals. With these three pioneering measures, Galicia shows that the urgency of the fight against the virus will not make us forget the importance of facing the demographic challenge, which is and will always be one of our main challenges as a country. In addition, throughout this legislation we will deepen on the measures that over the past few years have been making our community the best place to form a family, with the Children's Houses — that this course will offer more than forty hundred free children's care facilities in the smaller municipalities of Galicia and the most rural municipalities—, with the Welcome Card, with which Galicia receives the smallest ones and which in the past legislation has helped 60,000 families to cope with childcare costs, or also with Bono Care, than in recent months we have launched an extraordinary edition with between 500 and 600 euros a month to help families hire home care services for children up to 12 years, older people or people with disabilities. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the demographic dynamisation of Galicia is necessarily helping young people to find new opportunities to build their own future. The Galician Union is not alien to the endemic difficulties that here and elsewhere find new people: prejudices, instability and work patterns that tend to be extremely arid to take the first steps. The uncertainties that caused the explosion of the pandemic have only made these complications more difficult, but I am fully convinced that Galicia, the autonomous community with a smaller proportion of unemployed under 30 years of age, still has the potential to offer hopeful possibilities to their girls and their boys, both in the labour market and in the field of personal realization. In that sense, we will guide all our actions in matters of youth and volunteering throughout this legislation. Communication and youth counselling channels will be strengthened, especially in the area of education, housing and labour opportunities. The success of pioneering initiatives, such as the youth information channel, encourages us to continue exploring new formats. A digital non-formal education platform will also be created through which young people can access courses, workshops or congresses. We will diversify the free time options that drive the Galician Union, because educational and healthy leisure activities must not be restricted to summer months. He will be be betting on initiatives to improve the vocational training of young people, such as the successful help to get the driver's license that was launched this year and that will benefit more than 500 young people and girls. He will continue to work to visualize and promote Galician girls and girls who are relevant in the cultural field, in the sports field, in the research field, with performances such as the "Talento Mozo" awards. A specific volunteering plan will be developed for Xacobeo, so that the young Greeks and the young Greeks can help make the first holy year of the hideous era also a success. New options for social volunteering and environmental volunteering will be put in place to channel the altruistic vocation of Galician youth. Improving society through volunteering is a way by which many young people from Galicia choose — and more and more — but also more and more people who are ending their working life or who are already retired. One of the great "debts" of the developed societies, and that we haven't been able to assimilate yet, is the enormous transformation that has lived in recent decades, which we understand as "great people." With an ever-increasing life expectancy, this group of people, who enjoy excellent health, want to be active and non-passive subjects of the community in which they live. It is mandatory for all to continue to create new spaces for active aging. For them, because continuing to develop the tasks and conditions that they like is the best way to preserve a good quality of life for many years. But we also do it for ourselves, because Galicia cannot afford to give up all experience and knowledge. They have a lot to share with our older people. As long as a Welshman is of age, he wishes to continue living in his home, in his neighborhood, in his parish, with his friends, with his family, Junta will bring him the services necessary to age as best possible, through the homes of the largest, a free service that we began to offer on a pioneer basis in 2019 and that the older people in the rural, both dependents and non-dependent, can come to be careful and to be accompanied — our objective in this legislation is that the cent per cent of Galician municipalities contains daily care services, either through day care centres or through homes of the largest; with the service dining in the house, which leads a daily menu to more than 1,700 people living alone — a 20 per cent more than before the pandemic; through advanced teleassistance, whether through day care centers or through homes, or through larger homes; with the service dining at home, which brought a daily menu to more than 1,700 people living alone — a 20 per cent more than before the pandemic; which included mobile follow-on-day systems that served as usual, and also through the services used to incorporates 7.localization, to converts to the practice to the practice of which they were to the practice 7. [[Applause]] In addition, the extraordinary edition of this service that we launched during the confinement has benefited 3,300 Greek families without assuming them a single euro of cost. And, by the way, all those home help professionals I want to thank you today in the name of Galicia. I want to thank them for their professionalism and for not leaving a single minute to take care of our elders during the pandemic. [[Applause]] In the coming years Galicia will continue to approach services to older people wherever they live, through several innovative initiatives: with the development of cohousing regulations, a new model of coexistence between older people with independent apartments that share common services, and that is already being implemented in some areas of our environment; with the adoption of the Plan against Undesired Soudity, aimed at predicting risk situations in case they are given and able to detect them in an agile and effective manner; and, of course, for older people who need special residential care, with the construction of the seven best European residences here in Galicia, which will fund the Amancio Ortega Foundation, with 90 million euros, and which will create 900 new public residential squares available to our senior residents. [[Applause]] People with disabilities and their families will remain absolutely priority for the Galician Union throughout this legislation. The more support, the more opportunities; and the better care you have, the stronger we will be as a society. In the coming months, you'll see two regulatory amendments devoted to giving new facilities to the area of disability. First of all, the Accessibility Decree, which will consolidate progress throughout this field. Secondly, the Decree of the Social Concert, which will allow the hiring of disability care facilities with social entities in an agile manner and adapted to the needs of each person and every family. And, of course, since Galician Union we will continue to create more and more public places of attention to disability through social institutions that are on the ground three hundred and sixty-five days of the year, to whom I want to thank and acknowledge their excellent work. At the same time, other public centres of care for people with disabilities, such as the day-to-day and occupational centre Infanta Elena, in Monforte de Lemos, will operate in 25 squares, as well as the CAPD of Ourense, whose works are already under way and will create 110 new public disability care squares in the city of Burgas. All these advances do not make us forget one of the big pending issues: agitating and simplifying the procedures needed to get the appreciation of dependency and disability. I am aware of the difficulties that this entails for many families, and in this legislation we will do everything necessary to make that long path ever easier. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia is working to improve, extend and modernize attention to older people, and to care for people with disabilities. But all progress needs funding, and at the moment, unfortunately, the General Administration of the State continues to fail to meet the premises of the Dependency Act. Spain cannot allow autonomous communities to continue to carry on our backs the bulk of the dependency care system. In the case of Galicia, the Autonomous Community funds three out of every four euros of the total invoice of dependent people, which means that the Central Government is coming each year 200 million euros less than it would correspond to, an amount with which we could care for all the largest dependents of Galicia and, of course, also increase the accounts of its benefits. A few weeks ago we were transferred to the autonomous communities a document that finally recognized that historic debt of the central executive; a step that, of course, we welcome from Galicia, but that's not enough, because it's not enough to recognize the debt, but this debt must be paid to dependent people from Galicia can't afford more expectations, more failures, more handplays. [[Applause]] We deserve a central government that finally commits itself to the attention of the elderly and to the attention of people with disabilities, and that it immediately satisfies this debt with them. I speak of cooperation between administrations, ladies and gentlemen, because it is a fundamental condition for us to be able to face with guarantees all the challenges we have ahead. The uncertainties of the pandemic have especially hit the homes that are at risk of social exclusion. These domestic economies, which in many cases live a day, present extreme vulnerability to the unforeseen circumstances that we are living. That's why the impact of the coronavirus has also reached people who, under surviving circumstances, need timely support from social services. In the face of such alarming circumstances as these it is necessary for all administrations to exercise effectively our competences and with the best possible diligence: the Galician Union, through the ordinary and extraordinary mechanisms of fighting poverty, which I will now detail immediately; also the councils, through the excellent professions of basic social services — those that the Galician Union finances in a large part — and the central government, of course, through the minimum vital income. It's urgent that this benefit comes as soon as possible to the people who need it most, and that's why Galicia once again has her hand. Our autonomous community has already reiterated on several occasions the willingness to take on the management of this aid if that is the most effective way of removing those pitfalls that exist at this time and that are living many Greek families. Galicia has an instrument to channel institutional collaboration in the field of social inclusion, which is the Single Social Agenda. With this roadmap, the Union, the municipalities and social entities, we've worked hand and team up for the last four years and we've met 96% of their targets. One of the goals we must achieve in this legislation is the necessary renewal of the Single Social Agenda. The new difficulties facing families at risk of social exclusion must also have coordinated responses from different administrations. The coronovirus cannot contaminate the equal opportunities for which it has been working for so long for the Greek society. Also, and especially in these circumstances, all citizens, regardless of their starting point, must reach where they deserve to be. We must be able to get out together with this crisis, with more unity, more solidarity and more equity, not less. Since the early stages of the pandemic, Junta has acted by implementing a social plan of continence, which included measures aimed at the axillization and flexibility of access to risk for more than 1,600 people. More than 60,000 aids were granted to families who would benefit from a school lunch bag. And once he passed the first choice, the Galician board launched a full plan, the Social Recovery Plan, which still applies today. In addition, by increasing 50 per cent of the budget share for social inclusion aid, implementing extraordinary funding lines to care for homeless and vulnerable people through the municipalities and the various social entities of Galicia, and with the launch of the basic card, a pioneering economic aid with which 7,000 families benefit today to cope with their day-to-day expenses, whose accounts are 450, 600 and 900 euros quarterly. And after checking the excellent evaluations of this measure by social inclusion professionals, we have just enabled the possibility of requesting an extension to count on this aid for another three months. [[Applause]] Over the next few years, we must continue to react swiftly, through innovative solutions, to the challenges that will arise in social matters. The new context conducive to the creation of vital minimum income forces us to reorganize the social benefits that autonomous communities have been offering for many decades. In this legislation we will reorient part of the credit intended for Risga, to complete this new benefit and strengthen its potential for social inclusion, labour inclusion and digital inclusion. In addition, over the next few years, we'll move forward in lines of work that we've already defined in past legislation. The Homeless People's Care Plan will be developed, which was approved last year, and will be especially fine-tuned in the development of formulae to allow access to a decent housing and specific accompaniment to homeless women. Social inclusion aids will be increased and access will be facilitated by introducing new typologies to respond swiftly to specific problems; and specific programs will be launched, together with the municipalities, to improve living conditions in neighbourhoods where marginalization factors compete. Attention to the most vulnerable families will be among the top priorities of the Greek Government, because in situations like this, the great challenge we face societies is not only to overcome them as soon as possible but to seek out anyone to stay behind. Ladies and gentlemen, the projections point to the fact that the next few months will continue to test the resistance of our social protection network; perhaps even harder than in the first wave of the pandemic. Every analysis, every debate, every political proposal must be based on the criterion of realism, which obliges us to look forward to our near future. I cannot come to this Parliament promising astronomical investments for the year 2021 because it would neither be credible nor be responsible. But what I can commit to is to work all it takes to keep the quality of life of the Greek families improving even in such a difficult context as this. I also offer you, of course, dialogue. All the proposals that I come to tell you today, and many more that we will develop over the next few years, are open to any suggestion that can always improve them. Exceptional circumstances such as those we are living in require exceptional answers from those who have public responsibilities, so I would like to take this opportunity today to ask all Members and Members of this House for their cooperation. I'm not talking about unconditional support, since I know very well that the work of the opposition is also critical of the government that helps them improve, but what I ask them is that we are not tempted to wage a new electoral dispute at the social level, because, in addition to being unproductive, it would be totally sterile for people who now need more than ever all our help. There are still pending subjects, there are still problems that still have no solution, there are still inconclusive tasks and structural challenges that, as a society, we must be able to deal with. To this end, we will work throughout this legislation, but we must also look forward to the achievements that Galicia has achieved in social matters in recent years. There are more budgets than ever, more professional than ever, and more initiatives than ever to improve the quality of life of the Greek families. Our people have been forced through difficulties. The Greeks never gave us anything. But with courage, with creativity, with a great deal of effort and work, with altruism and a vision of the future, I am convinced that we will be able to find a way to go forward. Because we're also going out of this, I'm convinced that we're all going to do it together without anyone, nobody, stay behind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u72	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Round of parliamentary groups. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Castro Rey.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u73	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Counselor. I wanted to begin my first intervention in this House with words of remembrance to all those people who left us because of the coward-19 and support to their families. And I also want to send a lot of courage and strength to all the Greeks and Greeks who are suffering from the consequences of this pandemic on their health, but also to those who are suffering from the economic consequences. Although we cannot make it obvious and cannot deny that the health situation of the pandemic in which we find ourselves has had a great impact on the social situation and has greatly increased people in need of social assistance, we cannot forget, nor can we deny that the difficult situation that many people and families in Galicia are experiencing has to do with the policies of the last eleven years of government of a conservative party, of the People's Party, which have dedicated themselves to cutting and impoverishing social policies without pity. It would be good if they went out on the street, it would be good if they went out to realize that everyday reality for many people is complicated, and that many layers of society see serious difficulties in meeting their basic needs. And for basic needs, I mean not only food and ceiling, but also basic services and services for healthy development. In Galicia — as has been most evidenced in this crisis — the squares of day centres in residences are scarce, home aid continues to be smaller than is needed, youth sees a very black future, with little hope, and has to run away to other places for the null support of their projects, their studies and their lives. Children's education centres don't have enough means, families can't respond to all the needs of their children. And so it could go on in a continuous description of the reality of our day-to-day life in this country. If I don't solve it with urgency and political will, Counselor, some part of the population will be moving towards social exclusion. Why? Because the horrendous cuts of resources applied for years to other social protection systems — and I'm talking about education, I'm talking about health — are also adding total neglect in the social area. Even if they pretend to conceal it, even if they invest in advertising and propaganda, the reality is that, the fact is, the conservative discourse that the People's Party holds shifted responsibility to individuals without contemplating the inequities of departure and without providing them with the tools needed to overcome them. And what does this cause? For this causes now more than ever the situation of poverty to extend to older people living alone, to young people with precarious jobs, to homes headed by women with family burdens that have difficulty in their job placement, and one long and long et cetera. Counsellor, today in Galicia, measures of effective support for families and individuals to prevent marginalization and promote social inclusion are totally insufficient; and in some cases, virtually non-existent. I'll remind you of some examples. There is a need for effective policies on access to housing for low-income or poor families. How could it be that last year's lack of funds lead to U.S. denial of 80% of aid applications to pay the rent? [[Applause]] There is a need for specific programmes and sufficient resources to reconcile the family life and work of women and men. Is everything going to be the same now? I applaud the announcement you've just made by both the councillor of Fairy and you to take squares from the Galego Consortium of Wellness. Let's hope you don't stay in that, in an ad. Why is it possible that since 2008, since the Bipartite, there have not been places of educators in the Consortium kindergartens? In the context in which we are living there is not yet a strategic plan that approaches conciliation cross-borderly. Let's hope that this announcement will also be fulfilled for the good of all the Greeks and the Greeks, of the parents and mothers and, above all, of the grandparents and grandmothers, who are the most vulnerable to this virus. There is insufficient services and services for older and dependent people. In terms of dependency and disability, it's fair to work everywhere for all those people who are suffering all the lack of measures. The Dependency Act suffered a real and frontal attack with Royal Decree Law 20/2012, that of the People's Party cuts, cuts that had already predicted a year earlier Mariano Rajoy — who was neither president of the Government nor president of the Government — chose the Government's presidency when he said that the Dependency Act was not viable. This line is what you believe in. They approve the budgets of the progressive government of Spain, or facilitate approval, and they will see how budgets for the Dependency Act increase — not like the current budgets of the People's Party. The indicators in Galicia are terrible, and Galicia is one of the autonomous communities that shows a more important retreat from the rest of our country's communities. And even it increases, there is a greater fallback, comparing it with previous exercises within the same community. Galicia currently invests EUR 126 per inhabitant compared to EUR 150 on a national average. Dependency waiting time in our country is 342 days, when the law obliges you to resolve the files in 180 days at most. Why doesn't the Galician Union reform disability assessment teams? Why do you only make temporary accumulations? Do you see that it makes sense that a year and a half of waiting is the average to assess a degree of medium or high disability? There are many people who never get to be valued. What's going on with the dependency in our country? On the management of the SAF, speaking of this, of the home help service, I am in line with the thanks you have made to the workers of the SAF right now. And I take it up, above all, because work was impeccable and without the means needed to cope with this situation. Because they had no equipment, they had to be the municipalities that, during the toughest period of the first pandemic, brought the teams to the workers at the SAF. [[Applause]] So this management is also very poor; and, above all, it's a management that is solely the competence of the Board and that you don't assume, but they assume a coke and therefore economically delegate this right to the municipalities. And many times — especially in the case of small municipalities — this is inescapable. You're drowning the Town Councils with the home help service. And in relation to this home help service, I also wanted to refer to the assistance service in the extraordinary home that you created at the time of the pandemic, in which they assumed almost the full cost. I congratulate you on this, but I don't understand how November 30 ends this measure. And we're at the worst moment of the pandemic, with the highest rates of infection. I ask you from the Socialist Group to extend this measure and to do so for the well-being of our elders, dependents and their families. Regarding senior residences, the Feijóo model can be summed up in a privatization model and lack of control. And I think you've been doing business with our elders for the past 11 years. I think you should recognize the mistakes. Besides, for so much veneration with which he talked about our elders, I should correct, assume and acknowledge mistakes. Because you were not only responsible during the previous term, but also responsible for social policy in the previous term, and you were even the general director of seniors and managers of everything related to them. With regard to Risk, Risk is suffering from an insufficient budget, individualized insertion projects do not arrive, and this does not produce a chronicle of poverty problems. And take this into account when I make the regeneration that you said and that this regeneration is not limited to just reducing a budget, because you're going to take advantage of the minimum vital income that the state has approved. [[Applause]] We're talking about poverty. At this terrible moment that we are going through, we have to ensure that, whatever the context of equal opportunities for our children, it will not determine their future. We have to make youth-oriented policies and we have to support them at this difficult time. And we don't have to stigmatize them as President Feijóo has done these last few days accusing our youth of the last groms in Galicia. I don't want to forget, either, because of its importance, the catastrophic situation in which child protection centres find themselves, which are in a situation of total abandonment. Here professionals are scarce and subject to temporality. And that's why, Counsellor, I want to tell you that your attitude — the Government's general attitude to the policies of the People's Party on social services — demonstrates a clear lack of Government commitment to social rights. And it generates an inertia that comes to reduce social services to a simple, routine and visionless management of the future, and, more importantly, without responding to the new needs and social demands of the Greek population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Castro Rey. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u75	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Good morning, Counselor. By organizing my intervention — which we do have quite a limited time — I will make some prior reflections to the thread of some of the issues you were discussing and a general reflection on what social rights should be in our country. About the announcement or the headline -- I don't know what the press partners will think of today -- of that Italian pact, of that autonomic pact that you were offering to the groups of this House about this new model of residence -- they encouraged all the groups we added to it -- I tell you from the BNG: We'll see. We'll see, because we took this question precisely -- not many weeks ago -- about the new model of residences that had to be implanted in our country to the thread of everything he put in evidence to cover-19, of all the seams that made the pandemic visible. We asked and asked questions to the new CEO of Majors. And I have to admit it's one of the most random appearances I've been in since I've been here in this House, because we haven't got any kind of response. So when we get to know what the proposal really is about this new model of residence that this House and this country offers the People's Party, and in particular its advisorship, we can value it. What I have of course is that, if you're not going to change anything or everything that's going to change is cosmetic and you're not going to serve to shake hands on a question that we've put on the table since the BNG on numerous occasions, which is the need for people's lives, care, if you put yourself at the center of public policies, that you're strengthening the public character and proximity of older residences to guarantee assistance and care that before the vault was not guaranteed in those residences, as you warned the Board of Auditors, without going further, in 2018, if it's only going to be propaganda and really not going to serve to change course and correct what was already wrong before the pandemic, you can understand that we're not going to support it. [[Applause]] And I say this about reality and propaganda because we're very used to it. And some of the ads or some of the issues you put on the table at your desk are perfectly the example of that. You were talking, for example, about how one of the measures that was supposed to bring about this legislation was that Galicia would apply a deduction from the IRPF, for example, to single-parent families, formed in their vast majority by women — of "monomantals" we often speak to refer to them. And this is a promise you've made since 2010, 2015 and 2018. And I don't know if Mr. King Varela's around. He was the Social Policy Advisor and has already come to this House to announce a single-parent family plan that would include, among other things, those IRPF deductions that appear collected in his Family Law adopted in 2011. And you voted against the BNG initiatives in that sense three times in this House: when we brought the Law of single-parent families and twice again, when we brought this issue to Commission 3rd. So propaganda goes on one side but then the finger, the button and reality go on the other, right? [[Applause]] With regard to this propaganda versus reality, to me there is something that I like very much, which is cinema — I don't know if you, Counselor, too — and there is an effect that is often used, which is going from screen to medium — reality and expectation. And I would say, in your case, propaganda and reality, that they go in completely different ways. You were talking about the Great Care Bonus, and you were talking about the Basic Card, for example. The Special Care Bonus you announced that it would reach 36,000 families in this country, and the truth is that it did not reach 5% — being generous — of those families who were supposed to be beneficiaries of an extraordinary Care Bonus that could only be requested for one month, that it only covers the costs that families had in relation to conciliation during the confinement and the vigil of the state of alarm and that, in any case, it will not be perceived by those families until the end of 2020. It's insufficient and it's beyond a very limited range. The same with that Basic Card. Yesterday, in addition, we met — on his visit to the South Ecos — who were going to expand it three more months. Again, propaganda on the one hand and reality on the other. They said, when they announced that this Basic Card would be created — very much demanded precisely by third sector entities — that it would reach 30,000, more than 30,000 people from all over Galicia. And the reality is that it serves 7,000. So, of course, I have the doubt of inflating the figures when it comes to making the press notes or whether the measures later have a very limited reach and do not reach all the people who need it. And I really think there are two things. A good example is also another of the issues you announced today in your intervention, which is that 250 euros from the third child. The gap in fertility -- we don't like to focus too much on this kind of Christmas politics, and then I'll talk about this too -- the gap in Galicia is to jump from 1 to 2 from the first child to the second child. And besides, what statistics tell us, among them, is a very interesting survey published last year by the National Institute -- or State -- of Statistics, is that there are many women who say, they recognize, they want to have two children but cannot do it. Of course, what impact is 250 euros from the third child? The number of families in our country — and welcome to all the numerous families, we also have colleagues who contribute — represents 2%, 2% of the homes in this country. Do you know what unipersonal homes that are formed by 64 years of age, mainly women, represent? Twenty-five percent. Why is so much of the economic effort of the Galician Union — not to deny them one of the rights to numerous families — in these policies? So much effort in politics and so much effort in economic aid should be directed both to numerous families and to those single homes formed by women — often dependent — of more than 65 years living alone and which have enormous difficulties in reaching the end of the month; among other things, because this country has the second lowest pensions in the state. [[Applause]] And another example — and then I'm moving on to the reflection we wanted to make from BNG, another example of that propaganda going on the one hand and reality on the other, are those seven residences that have been announcing us since 2017 that are going to be built in this country in the seven main cities. They said first in 2017, they were going to build them together in Galicia. His name was Plan "Like at home." The architects' contest launched the Banca Foundation -- we've been talking about it today. In 2018 we were told the same thing again: 900 squares — 150 in Vigo and La Coruña, 120 in the rest of the country's cities. By 2019 I was no longer going to be Galician Union, it was the Ortega Amancio Foundation — EUR 90 million —. They signed an agreement with that entity. And the reality is, in reality, that in October 2020 there was not a stone, not a stone! And he'll come here and blame the Town Councils. [[Applause]] Because if you have some ability to escape, to escape, or up or down. The fault of everything, if you cannot throw it to the Government of Pedro Sánchez—because all the problems began the day that this gentleman entered the door, such as that they do not pay what they owe in relation to dependence on this country, which, indeed, this historic debt is the result of a parliamentary agreement which, among other things, brought the Nationalist Block Galego to this House, as well as the need for another series of measures to be taken—and it is true that the Government of the Socialist Party and the United Nations We can not pay, but also did not pay the Government of the People's Party. And if they're tough, as I've ever heard from you, Counselor, I wonder what's the Government of the Popular Party of Mariano Rajoy, who besides not paying applied a cut in 2012 that are still the dependents waving in this country. If they're snores, the others..., they're snores and they're thieves. Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Applause]] [[(Expression taken from the Journal of sittings by the President to Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure)]] A final reflection, because you said... cut through, through the snippet...! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, the errors that recently corroborated justice, I'm not going to comment on them at parliamentary headquarters either. [[Murmurs.]] And a reflection... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u76	That's the president's responsibility. And I know what time I have to say that. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, we must make it clear. I'm gonna stop the time. That's the president's responsibility, and I'll have to speak to Mrs. Rodil when she does.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u77	I don't know who steals rights. We'll change his name if you like. But the cut-off is there, 2012, the real decree-law applied to you leaving many people — who in the law had recognized their social rights and were able to access the dependency aid to gain autonomy and fundamental and human rights — without them by a political decision that you made. [[Applause]] Get the qualifier you want. [[Applause]] One last reflection. You said they changed priorities with the coward. We don't think they've changed priorities, they're exactly the same. Because if any capacity has the coward, if some capacity has the pandemic — and it has many — is to make what was already wrong visible and magnifying what was before; to magnify and make even more visible the inequalities that already existed in this country, social, class, territorial, between rural and urban and, above all and very especially, in terms of gender. Do you know what we miss a lot, counselor — and there's also for the second intervention? There is not a single study, not a single study of the impact it has had on the most vulnerable groups, on people who are already suffering or at risk of social exclusion and, above all, on women, who carry a fundamental part of the livelihood of this society. Not a single report, not a single analysis, not even today in your first intervention! You have a second. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u78	Thank you. Mrs. Rodil, I heard at a time of debate -- and I always do it when I finish, as you know -- the word "stolens." I ask you that word... sorry, I'm talking to her, I'm talking to her. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm asking you if that word can be removed from the Diary of Sessions. [[Murmurs.]] [[Mrs. Rodil Fernández: You're going to do it anyway, so...]] Thank you. He's retired. [[Applause]] Withdrawal is. There's nothing to say. It was a dialogue between Mrs. Rodil and me, and it was settled. Point. No, no, that's it. [[Murmurs.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u79	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Counselor, first of all, for coming here to show up. It's an important appearance on such important, so important issues that none of the opposition candidates are present during the debate. No, it's funny, because you... oh, sorry! [[Strong murmurers.]] Mine is ruling, that's what won the elections and is the president of the government. I'm sorry, I'm sorry! [[Applause]] They lost. In the end, you're going to be right about the socierge of Fairy, there's someone who's coming up too high, eh! Some people are coming up too high. Look, I want to thank the advisor for coming to this House today to come and explain what Galicia's goals are for the next decades of social policy and what she's going to do for her government over the next four years to advance those goals. I would like to sincerely thank him for coming here today to give us a clear vision, a realistic vision and an ambitious vision of social coverage to which Galicia can aspire if all groups prioritize citizen interest over political differences. You spoke of reconciliation, dependence, disability, fighting poverty, volunteering, old age, childhood, youth, the demographic challenge, residence. And it has announced measures that are important, legislative measures, aid lines, new installations, and what will be their geographic deployment, bonuses and tax exemptions, freeness of certain public services, implementation of technological advances in the care of different collectives. You've talked about negotiating, reconciling and reaching agreements in a new residential model, and the assessment you've made against this audience is: lack of commitment, questioning the work of social policy over the past eleven years and saying we're making a lot of propaganda. I sincerely believe that there is no more blind than he doesn't want to see. I'm serious. A few days ago in this House I had a debate on poverty, and one of Mrs. Rodil's colleagues accused me of not talking about poverty. We were talking about school luncheons, increasing the home care service, talking about the Basic Card — since you announced its expansion today, and I think it's a great news — we were even talking about how it had increased the average income available, — by the way, which is the basic element that will allow pensions in Galicia to improve in the next few years — and we told them we weren't talking about poverty. And, therefore, they simply deny the evidence, deny the possibility of the debate. Today Mrs. Rodil came exactly the same. Mrs. Rodil comes here and you've spoken to us, for example, that she requires us to improve conciliation services. It's all right, but, Mrs. Rodil, when you come to teach lessons you should have learned them before. Because you say you want conciliation services, but you voted in this house against the creation of children's homes in 2016. The speech goes on one side, but the finger, the button, the reality, the reality, Mrs. Rodil, goes on the other side very different. [[Applause]] Look, the counselor — and I appreciate it — came to talk about the future. He did not hesitate to speak of the present, but unfortunately the opposition focused on the past. It's quite normal. Tell me, 'cause, gentlemen, the future is not a paradise we're going to find. The future is an opportunity that we have to conquer and that we have to build among all. Today the advisor taught you to join in this work of winning a better future for the Greeks and the Greeks. And it's not an empty invitation. Yesterday the work of the Reactivation Commission began in this Parliament. And, therefore, we have a suitable forum where we can reach those agreements. One of those fundamental agreements and one of the opportunities that appear is to build a new residential model; a new residential model, so by the way, tools have already been announced. The first is the creation of a general socio-health care management, which has as its main and objective element. The advisor announced that he will send a document with the basic strategic lines of that new model so they can bring you closer. The tools are there. The adviser spoke of addressing the demographic challenge, through the approaches of the different groups to the Demographic impulse law. What did we get? Disqualifications. It is said that nothing is done, that the Union is uninterested. This is the same as the Commissioner for the Vacancy Demographic Retem has been nine months old. It was then replaced by a general secretariat — I believe —. Anyway, the truth is, the difference between the vacancy and the secretariat was little noticed. But, yes, they come here to teach and tell us that we have to improve population policy in our country, but they say that I care about the measures, that we are betting on Christmas! To me — indeed — there are things that make it difficult for me to understand. Do you think you're under 250 euros of help? Man, I don't know. Well, maybe they're not enough, I'm not telling them no. But more than zero, which was what there was all these years, including those who ruled you, I think it's a pretty important improvement you should recognize. [[Applause]] I'm going to ask you one thing, because, if you don't, this is going to be tremendously complicated. Get out of the party trench and start making reasonable, useful and feasible contributions. Because what they don't deserve neither the Galicians nor the Greeks is an opposition that has the "no" as the only speech and the past as the only horizon. That's not reasonable. The social policy of the last decade, ladies and gentlemen — I inform you — has already been judged by the Greeks; and the management of the Greek Government in the crisis of the coward-19, too. And by the way... They say no, I don't know what... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, but stop for a moment. Let's see, Mrs. Castro. There was a Sunday, not too long ago, where they put glass urns in a space. People have come closer. I don't know what you thought it was for. It was to choose the Government of Galicia, it was to evaluate its management. They have been evaluating us for eleven years, and the answer is 42 Members, more support than ever, and therefore, sincerely, more confidence than ever. I don't know what they thought was done on Sundays. What were you guys up to? Like it hasn't been evaluated! Of course it was evaluated!, and it was positively evaluated, because Galician Union was a pioneer. I know they're very upset to hear it. She was a pioneer in the establishment of protocols precisely to protect this whole society which is particularly sensitive to this pandemic. She was a pioneer setting up an integrated residence system that was practically copied across Spain and beyond our borders — importantly implemented, for example, in South America, ladies and gentlemen. She was a pioneer in establishing massive crews for staff and users. She was so pioneering that today she's the only autonomous community that's still with those 15-year-olds for both staff and users. It's the only one! [[Applause]] The only one! And you come here to question it. It's amazing, you dare question everything at all, including the figures. Look, yesterday I knew a news: "Mrs. Miranda is advancing that the BNG will denounce in Brussels the situation of senior residences." I've taken a couple of surprises — I have to say. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago shows a role from the stage.]] The first was because Mrs Miranda presented herself as spokesperson for the BNG in Europe. It's funny, because, as I know, he's not a Member. No, no, you're right, we're gonna be fair, 'cause I like not to fool the Greeks. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs Miranda is currently a political adviser to Mr. Pernando Barrena from Bildu. No, sorry, sorry! [[Laughter]] This is Mr Barrena's European Parliament page. [[Strong murmurers.]] Here you can see the name of Mrs. Ana María Miranda Paz, who I think is your companion. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago shows a role from the stage.]] I'm telling you not to deceive the Greeks and tell them that the BNG is going to bring the issue of residence to Europe. He won't take BNG, he'll take Bildu, he'll take Mr. Pernando Barrena, who continues to say that ETA is still a political reference. It's good to tell. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Miranda, who is not very precise explaining what her condition is in Europe, but rather giving the residence data more precise. And he says, "Death in residence in Spain is about 62% of the officially reported deaths." And then it gives Galician figures, actually obvious, to name the percentage, which is 20 points below. That's whether, if you're looking into, or you're going to investigate, the autonomous community that has 20 fewer points of mortality in these residences than the national average. And it turns out — because you have to know, the socialist lords — that you have to go to Europe to complain that you want to give a round to subtract the election and change the rules in the election of the General Council of the Judiciary is antipatriotic. But going to Europe to complain and bring birth to Galician Union, which has achieved twenty fewer points of mortality in residences, is Greek patriotism. It's just that there's nothing to be ashamed of! [[Applause]] Since there is little shame to fill your mouth here talking about delays in creating residences, talking about what is the model of residential provision. What's yours? In Lugo, in the MP, do you rule? I think so. There are residences in Lugo — which have been finished for seven years — that have been inaugurated three times and are still closed. No, no, in Castroverde, Meira, Navia de Suanna, Pedrafita do Cebreiro and Ribas de Sil, and put us urgently to build the seven that, by the way, are waiting for lands in the cities to be built. [[Strong murmurers.]] Don't be angry! [[Strong murmurers.]] Look, to see that I don't lie to them, I have Mr. Besteiro here — I think he'll sound to some Mr. Besteiro — opening some of these residences that are still closed today. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago shows a role from the stage.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u80	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u81	It's true that it's equally incompatible with its own ideology, because the curious thing is that there are four that are working, four that are working, two that are managed by Messengers for Peace; and two others, by private companies. And they come to demand the direct benefit model from the board. You can't be more hypocritical! I'll tell you that. [[Applause]] The political hypocrisy of this bench is endless.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u82	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u83	And what I'm asking is that they be a little more serious. Then, in the second intervention, we certainly have an opportunity to talk about matters that your lordships have also mentioned. But I'm telling you, really, that the least I ask you, the least to come to debate, is a little height of sight...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u84	Thank you, Mr. Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u85	...and a certain consistency of his speech with his facts. So far they haven't shown it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u86	Thank you, your time is up. Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica from the Social Policy Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u87	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Castro, you were talking about the day centers squares that we have to keep creating, residence squares. But you didn't hear me in the first intervention, which I told you that we want to get to the 100 percent, all of you, absolutely all the municipalities in Galicia, have a daily care resource, either a day center or either through a major house — which is also 100 percent free for all users—? We are also talking about residence squares — Mrs Rodil, you don't like them, she says we've been there for a number of years — of 900 new top quality public squares, in the best European residences, at the disposal of our seniors in Galicia. We have yet to sign new plots in the Pontevedra Town Hall, which gave us the best plot the mayor had — which I would like to thank you for your willingness to place the residence of the elders in the best plot of the Town Hall—. [[Applause]] You're also talking about fighting poverty. Look, Galicia is the most prominent community in the fight against poverty and social exclusion. And that's why the German Government is currently looking for more budget than ever before in this field. And do you know who we advise ourselves with? With EAPN-Network Galga Against Poverty, which helps us every day to continue working to help all those families and all those people who are in a situation of special vulnerability. I don't know why they get so angry, why they get so angry, when they talk about the law of dependency, both the Socialist Party, a member of the Government, and the party of the Nationalist Block Galego, a government mule. It's true, and I repeat, the central government is obnoxious. It's morbid because a morbid person or a morbid government is what doesn't work out. They don't comply with the Dependency Act and come here to this rostrum talking about Mr. Rajoy. Let's talk about the ones who are ruling. The Dependency Act is from Mr. Zapatero. Why don't you comply with the Dependency Act now? It's 200 million euros that they owe every year to all the Greeks and all the Greeks. And the Galician Union has to put three out of every four euros on its backs of our dependents' bill. [[Applause]] Look, you speak also, Mrs. Castro, of the home help service. I once again thank all those professionals, who are mainly women, who during confinement continued to work in the homes of older people to take care of them and the mimales. Well, we have to continue supporting the municipalities through the home aid service, with more hours, as we are giving them every day to the municipalities, and more funding. For that folder is the one that has to come from Madrid — 200 million euros less each year —. You're also talking about protective equipment. But if we're still waiting for the Central Government teams to send us! Bad masks! And the centralized purchase, where is it? Protection teams are the ones who send the Galician Union every week through Clonegal to all Galician day centers, all Galician residences and all Galician schools. These are the protection teams that bring to Galicia's board to protect our children, our elders, people with disabilities and also all the professionals in Galicia's social services. You're also talking about risk and social inclusion. See, since 2009, we have increased 73% of the budget for social inclusion. Investment in Risga is the largest in Galicia's history, three times as much as in 2009, when there were 22.7 million euros — at this time, 64.4 million euros —. And the number of risk beneficiaries has been reduced to 400. Meanwhile, the minimum vital income still comes, which I know, to 20% of the estimate that the central government had. I ask you, please, that everything you say in this rostrum also be transferred to the central government, so that it will be the minimum vital income and arrive effectively to the people who need it most. You also speak of public squares in children's schools, Mrs. Castro. Look, every day we continue to create more public squares in children's schools. We have twice as many public squares in children's schools for children and girls in Galicia as in 2009. But in addition, we have made a pioneering decision, which is a reference at the national level, such as freeness in child education for second and next children, of which more than 14,000 Greek families benefit. Mrs. Rodil, you told me you liked movies. I like movies too, though I've had little time to watch movies lately. But what I often see is the theater works when Mr. Iglesias summons us, along with his team, to tell us about measures that are a bluff. He told us about the minimum vital income, and there was a time when we didn't know if we had to talk about the minimum vital income with Mr. Churches or the Minister for Social Security. We made a lot of suggestions, and we don't understand why even now they say they're going to give Euskadi and Navarre the competitions and, instead, Galicia not because we manage badly. Well, you know, if we manage badly after thirty years of managing the Risk and getting to the people who need it most! [[Applause]] Look, ladies and gentlemen, the truth is, Mrs Rodil, when you talk about the Basic Card, it can hardly be seen as a bad news that there are funds available to continue working for those people who really need it. Here the ideal Galicia would be the one where no German or no Greek had to ask for this help for the first-needed products. But as long as they have to exist, so don't doubt that the Council of Galicia will be there every day beside all these people, putting all the funds that are needed so that all these people and all these families can get out of here. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to believe me when I tell you that I understand that the main task of the opposition is the control of the Government. I know that it is so and that it must be so in a democracy that is healthy, for the benefit of all citizens, for the benefit of all the Greeks and all the Greeks. I don't really want them to praise our successes, but I would at least like them to be able to move them to the Greeks and to the Greeks a speech that is consistent with reality. Because it is of no use, of no use, to criticize everything without meeting an objective criterion. Just as I think it's useless to criticize without offering at least better alternatives. I understand that the political debate should always arise new ideas, and more in the current context in which citizenship demands us every day, and now more than ever, to observe how public officials are also able to temporarily park our differences to seek out or to reach that common good that the Greeks so need. And it is not the first, nor will it be the last time, that I say in this House that, in the face of the current crisis, we can only act with realism and with much responsibility because we owe it to the Greeks and we owe it to the Greeks; because, if we act with realism and responsibility is the best way to act in normal circumstances, in extraordinary circumstances, as we are living in these moments of pandemic, we are forced to demonstrate, more forcefully than ever, exemplary public management. I understand that we must redouble our efforts and try to be all exemplary, and when I say "all" I'm talking about the Government but I'm also talking about the opposition, and that, therefore, that electoral defeat does not assume a disclaimer of responsibility in the Greek citizenship. When we talk about pandemics and when we talk about the social environment, there are many behaviors that are exemplary; exemplary behaviors are those of the staff of all juvenile centers, who have continued to help the personal development of so many children, so many children and adolescents during confinement, and always with a smile on their faces. Exemplary behavior is that of the teachers of children's schools, whose dedication made it possible for a course of course to be absolutely normal in extraordinary circumstances. It is also an exemplary behavior of the promoters of the children's homes and the houses of the elders we have in Galicia, who, despite their small size and size of their centers, went and did the indignible to adapt their services to the current situation. exemplary behavior was during this summer that of the hundreds of monitors and monitors who worked with the children of Galicia to carry out a summer campaign with zero contagions, and that the children and girls of Galicia could continue to have fun leaving their homes. Exemplary behavior is that of the home help workers, who have guaranteed, guaranteed and will continue to ensure that all those older people who need care at home can continue to keep them, top-level care at home who have not been interrupted for a single moment. Exemplary behavior, of course, is that of all Galician day centers, with which, despite having some difference with them at first, we managed to arrive at a solution that conjures the well-being of older people with maximum health security. And, of course, it was also more than exemplary behavior than that of all the workers and workers of Galician residences, who under unprecedented pressure were able to give everything to all those people who gave us everything. They'll understand how far we feel compelled in Galicia to fulfill and acknowledge the good work done by all these professionals. That's why one of the major concerns of the Galician Union is to continue to bring more tools to all these professionals every day. And I'm not just talking about material tools, but about training and the best protocols in the world. I know there's a lot of things to improve. Be sure, ladies and gentlemen, that I will not give myself at any time out of satisfaction, but I am convinced that inconformism is born the changes that lead to prosperity. But I'm also sure the best way to improve and prosper is to work together and together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u88	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Special round of clarifications. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Castro Rey.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u89	Look, Counselor, the words and promises are very good, but it takes the wind. And we know above all that propaganda, the autobomb, or the game of pyrotechnics, as some of the members of the People's Party say, is a basic specialty of this government of the People's Party. But the truth is not that. The truth is, from the beginning of the pandemic, in the social environment, we don't even have to wait. Since the beginning it was the Town Councils, it was the Town Councils that assumed the inappropriate powers to deal with this crisis of the coronavirus. I would like to remind you of Article 27 of the Statute for the Self-Government of Galicia, which grants competence to the Union in social matters. The board is currently detaining 313 municipalities and 2.7 million Greeks and Greeks. Look, with regard to the Basic Card, what you were talking about right now, and what the president of the Board had assumed yesterday in the press, with another bus campaign, I'm telling you that I recognize the need for this card — as this is being demanded by third sector entities for a long time. I hope he gets to the fiancé and he doesn't stay in a car campaign as well. But I ask you not to forget the town halls. Town Councils are making a huge social expense that doesn't belong to them. The Union owes to the Council of Pontevedra at the moment EUR 400,000 of social expenditure incurred as a result of the virus. You pay them and help the Town Councils to deal with this situation. Look, we socialists understand that the state of well-being is an undeniable right of citizenship, so the Government of Spain, from the beginning of this pandemic, has taken measures to protect the Greek citizenship, like that of all the Greeks—more than 270,000 Greek workers—protected by the estate; the aid of the extraordinary provision to self-employed, from 45 million euros to the month of investment for this purpose; the aid to health expenditure, with 271 million euros in Galicia; and I can follow with the credits ICO or I can also tell you the money in dining bags, which arrived at 13,766 children and girls in Galicia. And the last one was the 15 million masks that since September 21st and through the Femp and social entities were distributed in our territory — in particular in Galicia there were 862,000 mascarillas — to support the local authorities and the most needy families. I haven't received any masks from Junta yet, and I have children and girls; I have girls of school age. As you said, "We've come to all the children with the masks," to mine they haven't arrived. Madam Counsellor, at this moment, in addition, what we ask you from the Socialist Party is that you value the need for quality public services, so that no one is left behind. We ask you to review the risk, but to complement yourself with the minimum vital income, not to assume the State's competences which belong to the Autonomous Community. I believe that the creation of the parliamentary committee should be rethinked in order to investigate residences, because I think it is important to determine the responsibilities, I think it is important to review the applicable legislation and improve the quality of care for our elders. Protocols don't work, they don't work because marriages in residences between users and workers are being massive right now. I'll tell you the Incio, the Hill, the Culleredo... They're not working. Not a map to determine contagions. It is worth measures, it is worth revisions of the protocols. What's going on in senior residences? They're bigger, Mr. Pazos, they're not data! They're bigger dead, not data. [[Applause]] The residences you announced, welcome, but I hope that doesn't remain in an advertisement, because I've been waiting for Pontevedra's years and years. It's the third plot offered by the Pontevedra Town Hall. I think the third will be overdue and start again. But they haven't set any stones yet. Yes, I was with you at some of those openings, which were left on the ground only. And then I'm telling you to also improve attention to people with disabilities, who are over 58,000 people with sensory diversity, who haven't taken any measure by the board in the field of health and information, or education, and who have been completely isolated and abandoned during these most terrible moments of the pandemic. I also ask you to question the management of child education. More public residences and fewer children's homes, which means an intrusion and a lack of guarantee for our children! Improve also the rental lines for youth by agitating processing. It is admirable to work — as you said and that I share it — of all those people who work in juvenile centers. Of course it's admirable! You say they work with a smile. I doubt it very much, because, working in precarious conditions, with great temporality, with a shortage of staff, they work, but with a smile I doubt it very much. And then I also ask you to proclaim a law on child and adolescent care in Galicia under the recent National Child and Adolescent Protection Act, which has just passed the Government of Spain. And, Counsellor — and I am finished — with all these initiatives, all these initiatives designed and implemented but taking into account the people and using the means necessary for them to enjoy the social goods, we lend them all our support. On that path you will have the support of the socialists.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Castro Rey. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u91	Thank you, President. Good day again. Mr. Paz said we didn't want to talk about the future. At the BNG we were talking about, Mr. Pazos, it was from the present. And the present is that in this country, before the vault, we had -- and we just read an institutional statement this morning -- 24 per cent of people in poverty. What we had before the vault, in the year 2019 -- it went out these days, there will be two or three days, the Foesa Report -- is that the income that you receive as a salary is 12.5% of the people who have a job contract, who have a job, are not enough to meet the basic needs. And the basic needs are to pay for housing and to pay for food. Many of the homes precisely from these homes, within what is called labour poverty — which I think we should start to focus a little more on the issue, since it is exploitation, directly — many of those homes of which 12.5% of workers who call them "poor workers" are also formed by people and families with children. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] That is, that is the reality we have today and before the pandemic, before the pandemic!, because the reports correspond to the year 2019 — both the poverty and Foesa's recent on labour poverty, or labour exploitation. We last week — if I don't miss my memory, and you think you were referring to your intervention to that commission in which you talked about poverty with an initiative that the BNG presented — one of the issues we asked the Government on that initiative was something as Marxist-Leninist, subversive and revolutionary as a report, a report on the impact of poverty on the Greek economy, and above all considering very much and very bearing in mind the effect that the economic crisis is already having on many families working in this country. [[Applause]] Because this crisis is healthy. Someone in the morning said, "The first and most important thing is to face the health crisis." Yes, but it does have gross economic derivatives, probably unprecedented, and you voted against doing something — I insist — as absolutely ruptureist with Spain's unity as a report on economic poverty in our country. To deal with this, one of the issues that came out in the debate — and the advisor said so too — is actually to create guaranteed income or minimum income, or income from integration or social inclusion. But it's not worth anything, really — because we've been about three months, I've at least, since the law that regulates the minimum vital income in the Spanish state has been passed, we've been beating our chests, tearing our clothes and saying "How bad, bad, bad is Paul Churches." It's no use to us because that doesn't change life to the Greeks and to the Greeks who today have a fundamental need for income to cope with the economic problems they have. We from the BNG—you've held your hand and I'm going to tend to the Block too—we're going to propose to the next plenary that this House's claim be approved for the transfer of minimum income management vital to the Greek Government. But I also say one thing: Euskadi and Navarre appear in that law — no additional provision, specifically — because they have economic sovereignty. Having political tools to be able to decide from here and to be able to cope with from the German Government — which corresponds to the problems that we have today both the Greeks and the Greeks — is what enables us to have a better situation. It is the political power!, it is not the defeat of the Government of Spain, nor of Paul Iglesias, nor of Pedro Sánchez, nor of the Minister of Social Security. [[Applause]] They are the skills already recognized in their statutes of autonomy. So when BNG talks about going beyond self-government that this country has recognized, that we need political tools to deal with the challenges that we have ahead of us — today present but also the future — we talk about eating things, we talk about improving the living conditions of workers and workers in this country, and including that vital minimum income. But I'll tell you something, too. You used to say and set an example to Risga, didn't you? Don't use it as an example because it doesn't cover all the people who need it, nor does income arrive — it's all that they perceive it, to many people who are beneficiaries, who are more than 9,000 in our country — not even to meet often the needs to pay the cost of living or to face — I insist — basic needs issues of our day to day. And that also has to have moved — because we were reunited with them and with them this very morning — the Galician Network Against Poverty. I'm absolutely convinced that they give the same to the BNG as to you, and that we need to go to a Welsh income of social and labor inclusion that effectively guarantees that people, simply being people, have the right to see all their basic vital needs met. Because it's a fundamental human right, it's not a alms, like none of the social rights that his council has the responsibility to ensure for all the Greeks and all the Greeks. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u93	Thank you very much, President. As we said, Counselor, caught by his past. Important contributions made to us. I would like to point out Mrs Castro, who considers that policies against poverty are not working because the masks have not reached a Member. I guess it's fair by the end of the month. If you want to solve the mascarillas... No, I'm telling you because, if you want to solve the mascarillas for people who are in need, what you might want to do is stop lying to them, like you did 15 days ago in this House, how you're doing it permanently from the government saying that you don't reduce the EVI from the mascarillas because there's a European regulation that prevents them. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I leave you here : Portugal, 6%; Belgium, 6%; France, 5.5%; Germany, 5.5%; Italy and the Netherlands, 0% — exempt. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago shows a chart from the stage]] The regulation does not prevent anything because the Commission is not monitoring, it allows absolutely all countries to do so. The only ones who keep an IV at 21% for the mascarillas are you! [[Applause]] And you're here to say that you didn't get the mask from the honourable lady! [[Applause]] Look, I don't really know, I think they have this obsession of convincing us all to review the past and convince us all that Feijó did it very wrong and that Pedro Sánchez did it very well. They come here and tell us: Support socialist budgets. Well, let's talk about it, let's talk about it! Look, in that cockroach, I announce that Mr. Iglesias has done — that so many empathys are awakening to him —... No, no, there's 600 million euros a year for the entire dependence in Spain. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Are you taking a third Galicia? Will they give us the 200 million? If you give us the 200 million, we study the budget. Are you going to give us the 200 million we owe from the VAT and you're going to be in the budget? We can study it! And the 170 incentives for compliance are going to be in that budget? Because we'd be willing to study it. The 100 million employment policies that have thrown us in, are we going to return to those budgets? Because we could study them. The 36 million — more than 36 — who owes us from the bottom of the house, are you going to be in that budget? Because if they are, I commit myself to talking to my group and I tell them that we study thoroughly to ask them to approve that budget. The reality is that it's you who are denying Galicia's money. Don't come here asking for budget when it's you who are depriving Galicia of resources to make social policies. There's got to be a little more shame! [[Applause]] And they come here to talk about clippings! Look, let's make it clear to everyone that I think we should reach that minimum consensus. Look, the cuts, which I know, are not a political objective of any government, they are not, they are the result of wrong economic policies. When you talk about Mariano Rajoy, you always forget to tell them that you took a government in which you had frozen the pensions of all Spanish pensioners and reduced the wages of all public officials, not high officials, of all public officials, of those who care so much about them all! Depending on what they paid, he graduated the discount. [[Murmurs.]] They put it down to everyone, 100 percent! At least when they talk about these things, they get colorful! [[Murmurs.]] It's the least we ask them to get colored. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Home!, here they come to talk about that we have to establish protocols, that we have to be clear, that we have to intervene to stop the germs. We all want to stop the germs! Let's say things. Right now the level of affection in the Galician residences is below 2%. And, as I already know them, it's not like we're dealing with the worst, it's like we're comparing ourselves with everyone and we're among the best. It's an objective result. Because, of course, they're all dead. Of course they're all data and they're all dead! But in those autonomous communities that you govern and that have much higher data than we do, right? Those who die are older people too. I have respect for all, but, of course, to evaluate public policies we will have to make a comparison of those public policies and their results. And, of course, if you want us to control it, look at the legal tools they've been asking you for months, by the way, for months! We're in the middle of a pandemic. Reform of the Public Health Act? None! Orzamento? For now, none. Do you know what the legislative priorities of the current Government are? Reform of the election of the General Council of the Judiciary, reform of the offence of sedition, historical memory and a law of euthanasia. They're going to solve a lot of the problem of people suffering from the pandemic! The truth is, you have an important tail. And then, look, I know you'll find yourself the same, Mrs. Castro, but the next time she comes here to talk about propaganda, at least it gets colorful. It's the least. Look, I'm going to remind you of this: do you remember this spectacular roll of the Spanish press? [[Mr. Pazos Couñago shows a role from the stage]] Look, we are the first European power as a percentage of cowardly deaths, but "we are stronger," the first country in the world in number of infected health professionals, "we are stronger," and the biggest GDP drop in the whole European Union, "we are stronger" and the worst economic scenario of recovery across Europe... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u94	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u95	... we get stronger. Please, when you come here to talk about propaganda, remember your teacher and don't come here to say questions that shame anyone who has a minimum of shame.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u96	Thank you, Mr. Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u97	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u98	Thank you. [[Murmurs.]] Silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence! And I'm going to tell you one thing, and you don't hear anything. Besides, all we're doing is messing up the air and we don't need it at all. But I guarantee you there's nothing to hear. Everything they talked about, if we asked someone, he didn't know anything. Then we'd better not complicate this, which is already complicated by itself. Let's not complicate the environment. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We'll negotiate it later. First we'll see how the advisor ends his intervention. For the closure of this appearance, the Social Policy Counsellor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u99	Thank you very much, President. Mr Castro, you are concerned about the funding of the Town Councils. Look, since the Galician Union during this pandemic, we have financed the municipalities with 8.8 million euros to attend to the municipal social services and to attend to the neighbors and neighbors. Madam, you also say very cheerfully that the protocols are not working. What protocols do you propose? When I studied law, I wasn't taught or I didn't have any subject for preventive medicine; therefore, you don't have to be bold and know more than epidemiologists and that the clinical committee that advises the Galician board, which is the one that makes the protocols, the ones that endorse them and the ones that approve them. [[Applause]] And the truth is, from today's plenary if there's something that has left me quite frankly concerned. That is what Mrs Castro said. How can you say that children's homes, which are one of the most recognized projects in Galicia in terms of conciliation, recognized also at the national level and even being recognized internationally, are intrusive? But do you really believe that those responsible, women — because they are all women who manage these conciliation services in rural Galicia — deserve this kind of comment? Do you really believe that, with the more than four hundred Greek families that trust care than they want, that are their children and their daughters, these people from the little houses that are in the rural of Galicia deserve this kind of valuation? I don't know, I ask you to ask all the mayors of the Socialist Party that in their municipalities they have with nested houses what the families of these councils think they have as a conciliation resource a nested house to be able to reconcile their personal life and their working life. That is why, Mrs Castro, I really ask you to recapitate in this statement and that at the next plenary meeting, or the next time we speak in this plenary session, you really explain what is the content and scope of your word "intrusion". Look, I really think we can keep talking for a long time about what can be improved at the Galician Summit and what can be further improved from the Social Policy Council. But now, as this parliamentary debate comes to an end, I really would like to thank both Mrs Castro and Mrs Rodil and, of course, Mr Pazos for their approach during the speeches. I can assure you that we will value your interventions and your contributions with great interest. And I also know that we can continue to assess the evolution of the social sphere in the coming weeks, even in that reconstruction commission that will be held here in the Galician Parliament. After reviewing all those events that have been happening in these last seven months, starting in March, it is inevitable not to look back and think of all those lessons that we have been learning in these months the people we have participated in from one or another responsibility and see how Galicia's social protection continues to advance. Our social services are the same, they offer care of the same quality, with the same grip and with the same professionalism, but at the same time all these services are completely different. The protocols became the roadmap that follows every day so many professionals in Galicia. The relationship between social professionals and health professionals is much more fluid and more constant, as well as mutual understanding from both areas. And the political leaders have a large number of proposals and lines of action to continue to improve in the coming years. We all know that the pandemic will happen, but everything learned during these last few tense and sad months will remain in our memory forever, as well as in our memory all those people who have already left us. The Galician Union will never forget anything about what happened and all these experiences will serve to continue to advance in the construction of more modern, safer and more coordinated social services. In people there is a clear will to start talking about the future. For this, it is necessary to address the difficulties of the present. And there they'll also have a lot to say about social services, especially from the scope of inclusion. I tell them we must flee from conformism, but also from the lack of constructiveness as is the "no" at all. Let us also avoid sterile greed and insubstantial partisanism. Let us move forward, ladies and gentlemen, all united and all by hand, the political groups, the professionals in the sector, the various experts, to work together to improve the social environment and to make tomorrow better than today. We're facing a situation where there was no instruction manual before. In these months science and experience have been written, and today we are better prepared than ever to face an enemy as fearful as this pandemic, which is both healthy and economic, and which by both sides ends up being a social pandemic. I know that in the last few months many social services professionals have been overcome, they have been distressed, and they have been besieged by fear and uncertainty. And it's normal because it's human. And I also know that they've been able to put all this aside to keep giving people what they need most, the best care. And that's not normal, that's extraordinary. That's why I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to stand up to these heroes and the ordinary heroines of the residences, of the children's schools, of the children's centres, of help in the home, of all the professionals of the day centers. Let's make a social policy among all who fits what it deserves and waits for our people in Greece. That is precisely the challenge of this legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u100	Thank you, Counselor. We suspended the session until five at least a.m.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u101	Good afternoon. We resume the session, with the third item on the agenda, motions. G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the impact of the covid-19 on private residences of older persons
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u102	An amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u103	To formulate the motion, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u104	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, again. Let's keep talking about social rights and social policy. Today, as it was said, from the BNG we brought this motion after the appeal to the Social Policy Counsellor in the past full. So since the Block we have focused on two issues that seem fundamental to us, which are prevention and research on pandemic management, on the management of the coward-19, which has been done in the homes of our country's largest, essentially the private ones, which, as you know, are most of the squares that exist in our country and are also the most affected. In view of the situation, indeed, that we are now living in this second wave, or the second phase of the pandemic, but also after all the experience during the first months of the Covid-19 in our country, the proposal we are defending today since the BNG includes measures precisely in these two areas, as it said, both of the prevention and the result of the necessary investigations that must be carried out by the Self-Government itself — as we said in our own interpellation — with the objective of these proposals, this battery of proposals that make up the motion that we are defending today: that, contrary to what it has done throughout these months to the Council of Galicia, act in advance, act with caution and do not expect to make decisions that there are groars like those that we are seeing in Monterrey, in the Perier of Aguier, in Culleredo, in Oleiros, in the Incio or in the Other King, by quoting some cases, and do not wait to make decisions when the grandes are already out of control. We insist again, as we have already done in the interpellation, that it is not to be accepted that it only intervenes in residences when there are, for example, 137 positive people, as happened recently in Pereiro's residence, 137 positive on the day that it was detected and made public that massive infection. More than 160 people are infected today. Since the BNG, we sincerely believe that the attitude that the Galician Union is maintaining seems more like a government that had not learned anything after everything we've had in recent months, in the last seven months, in this country. And that then, precisely, of contagions to those I referred to earlier, such as those that took place in the months of August and September in the Incio residence or in the residence of the Hill of King, it is absolutely intolerable that there are grotesques such as that of the Residence of Joys, in the Pereiro, and that still above the Government publicly says that he does not know what failed. The Health Counsellor said they would look to see that it had failed — I insist — more than 130 positive people in that residence. When we talk about prevention, when we talk about anticipation from BNG, what we mean is that we have to look at things first, not when we have a massive contagion and a completely uncontrolled grom, as is the case in this residence. Because, moreover — it is unfortunately something we have learned in this country in the last few days — we see the consequences of not acting hastily, of not anticipating, of not acting in anticipation. We're talking about people -- about saying it, but let's repeat it -- extremely vulnerable to the virus, and in the case of this residence, for example, The Joys, of the Eyrie Perier, ladies, since the infection was detected ten days ago, twelve people have died, twelve people have been found that groin in the residence of the Joys. They're not collateral damage, they're not figures, much less we can normalize or naturalize that situation. The Union therefore has to intervene in private residences, to ensure that all protocols are being scrupulously complied with, that they count on the staff and the material needed to care for users, because it is obvious that something fails. And when something fails, it can't get out of control and lose it absolutely, as in these cases I was referring to. The forecast and anticipation that has to be extended, as we also included in the proposals, to all social services, not only to residences, and that happens — let us defend it so at the BNG — by extending these squibits to whom we were talking just a few minutes ago here in this chamber, those servants whom the Board is performing in residences, and who, if we are, in addition to the government announcement itself, would also be doing both in day centres and in disability centres. What we've proposed since BNG is that these guys, that preventive control is also extended to the home aid service and to the juvenile centers. We think that the home help workers, who also bear enormously precarious working conditions — today just a few minutes ago we heard the counselor, didn't we?, to bless them, to thank them and even call them heroines — certainly what they need are not handy on their backs but, for example, dignified working conditions, renewing a collective agreement expired since 2011, ensuring that they don't charge under what the agreement itself establishes — and there are councils where they are charging the home help workers under what the agreement itself establishes — and investing more in a service that is fundamental to a country as well as ours. [[Applause]] They are, in addition, social health personnel, although, for example, the Spanish Government does not recognize that condition when it excludes them from the recognition of cover-19 as a professional illness, and they are part of that collective or those socio-sanitary groups. They're exposed to the virus and work with high-risk people, not in a daytime center, not in a senior residence, but directly at the home of users. Prevention — I insist — but also transparency, with the result of the necessary research to be carried out by the Galician Union in respect of everything that has happened in the homes of older people and in the whole of social services in this country. We reminded the adviser in the interpellation that the People's Party had established a committee of inquiry on residences in this chamber, but that the debate was not over there and that the Board of Social Policy itself has a responsibility, which is to guarantee this control work, to monitor what is happening in residences. We therefore ask that all records open to residences be sent to the House since the health emergency and the documentation corresponding to them. It has been said here that 32 files have been opened to residences and what we want — because the legislative power, this chamber, the Galician Parliament has the right to know it too — is to know what the researches were conducted, what the researches were carried out, and what were the reasons why those entities who manage those 32 — we suppose — were senior residences. We also include two last questions: one that has to do with the right of access to information on the part of this chamber, but also with the whole of citizenship, and what it has to do with a demand, in addition to the families of the people who use their oldest residences in our country, is that the Council of Galicia publishes the data referred to in the shelter in these centers, clearly, in an accessible way, not only for the people who work in the media, but also for the whole population. Information relating to the incidence of the pandemic of these centers, individually, the number of contagions between users and workers, the tests performed, the typology of these centers, and also the number of people killed. Transparency is, and especially in times of crisis, also synonymous with democracy and especially access to information is a right. What we are seeing -- even today in the morning the advisor repeated it again in his appearance -- is that the People's Party is a little installed in the "do what I say but not what I do," because we saw how the Spanish Government was asked to make public the data of the incidence of the safe house in the state as a whole -- you have to remember that residences and social services are autonomous competition, in our case of the Galician Union -- but in the meantime it is strongly asked of the Spanish Government, here all we have is a flat picture attached to a daily press release and a couple of colour maps; open data is not a Russian name, it is the guarantee of the right of access to information that has the entire population of this country. [[Applause]] And to finish -- we also mentioned in the interpellation -- the coward made the invisible visible and now no one can deny the need for a change of course in the model of residences in this country, in the model of care in Galicia. Today it was even repeated that offer that will be opened to a new model to the Board of Galicia in what it has to do with senior residences. And we asked for something, also as I said in the morning, very revolutionary, very subversive, as a report that is sent to this chamber, in addition to the instances of what the Galician Social Services Act itself establishes, which is asked to one of the entities, one of the agencies that is the Government's own advisor, as is the Galician Council of Welfare, to address what is the situation we have in terms of residence but also the whole of Galician social services. Because if we want to change things, the first thing is to know first-hand as well as they are. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Castro Rey.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u106	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. First of all, I think it is necessary to remember and emphasize something that, although it is obvious and by all known, seems that this group of governments often forgets it. First, that from the beginning of the pandemic to today the biggest outbreaks of infection in Galicia were the residences of older and health professionals. And, secondly, related to the previous one, is that health and services are within the competence of the Board; so the sound has been approved since the Autonomy Statute until today, even in the period of the state of alarm with the sole command of the State, the only command that has established guidelines but has not removed powers, and at this time they continue to bear the same ones they held during the alarm state period. And, although it seems obvious, I think it's necessary to remember it, for the habit of having this government to throw balloons out and to avoid responsibilities. And the Council of Galicia for eleven years has not assumed these powers which correspond to it in the Statute of Autonomy, and I refer to the management of private residences. The Gunta de Galicia has been delegating this competition for eleven years in private companies, in friendly companies. At the moment, around 80% of the major residential squares in Galicia are privately owned. It's a scandal! The Board of Auditors has already warned of this in 2017, both the existence of these residences and the mismanagement of them, and the absence of management by meeting the established standards, the practice, the lack of diligence in their management. Thus, the Board of Auditors said, "Some residences preferred to avoid making changes in their management before they complied with the law, even paying fines, because they were more profitable than making necessary contracts." The path of privatization in Galicia is from the highest in Spain, and so these senior residences emerged, which is really a business, seek the benefit and do not comply with minimum guarantees and minimum demanding protocols. In Galicia it can be said that for eleven years now we've been doing business with our elders. And what did he do with the coward crisis? The crisis of the vault has only been evidenced by those deficiencies. A few days ago, I read in a headline DomusVi's assistant director, who said, "I put my hand in the fire by most workers." —literally—. And the same argument said today in the morning the advisor. The counselor this morning praised the workers, spoke of them as excellent professionals, and it really seemed that the opposition was blaming the residents. We're not blaming the residents workers, what we're doing is we're asking for responsibilities to the major residential directives and of course also to the Social Services Council. The social policy adviser, rather than talking about the workers, as she spoke today morning, with praise to them, what she had to do, first of all, was listen to them, but not only now, but for eight years now, who have been registering documents requesting a meeting with the advisor and who have not yet received them. So those who question the reality of the workers are those people who don't listen to them, not the opposition, who demand responsibility from the government for mismanagement. [[Applause]] Unfortunately, the chronology of this account does not begin at the beginning of the pandemic, but many years ago, with complaints from the workers, as I told them, when families warned that there were breaches of the regulations, when the Board of Auditors reported that there were breaches of the personal ratios, resources, contracts. And meanwhile private residences in Galicia continued to increase and inspections continued to decline. In the first wave of the pandemic nearly half of the deaths occurred in the homes of older people, and, above all, in a proposal put forward in this chamber, the People's Party votes that it does not want an investigation commission. I think our elders deserve it. Now, in the second strike in the shed, things aren't much more encouraging. A few weeks ago my comrade Marina Ortega, in this chamber, asked a question to the advisor about the situation of residences. The advisor replied that the situation was very good, that there was only 1% of the cases contaminated. I repeat, as I said before to Mr. Pazos, that they are not so many percent, they are dead. And secondly, I wanted to say that this is really not just a figure, but they're dead. We also want to point out that this figure is not true, because with the data that came out yesterday — well, the data that comes out in some media, the data that we can guess, because, as the previous fellow Member said, there is no official data, official data is not public — it is evident that they are not true. Contacts in residences continue to appear grossly and massively, the practice of all users and workers is contaminated in residences such as The Intium, the Hill, the Culleredo, the Pereiro, and we still do not know what the criteria of intervention of residences and how much personal and how much resources Junta applies in their interventions. We do not understand measures like the one we knew last week at the residence of the Pereiro de Aguiar and at the residence The Viso, in Lobeira, in which it gave positive almost the entire staff and had to keep quarantine; and the San Rosendo Foundation requested this using staff other residences, such as that of Esperanza, Ourense, that of Lobios or that of the Divine Master. What were they doing with the ratio then of these residences? Were they covering up a piece of crap with a squirt? And Junta has this data, have you checked this? I think we have a lot to change the policy of the Union on this issue. Welcome be the new policy that today announced the advisor to make a public management and expand residences in Galicia, and I hope it's true and not just a bus, which we're used to. And I also tell you that the situation is very complex, but you have to change the modus operandi that has so far been done, you have to cut down the massive grotesques that are happening in the residences and that are having dramatic consequences. That's why, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, they recognize the mistakes. They should be aware that the best way to cut down the most complex management is to assume, in principle and first, that something fails in their management, that there are errors in the beaches, and so they can give a clear diagnosis and shorten the errors. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u107	Thank you very much, Mrs. Castro Rey. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos Couñago has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u108	Thank you very much, President. In one of the endless press rounds that Mr. Illa, Minister of Health, gave us when they asked him about the mediator in the purchase of six hundred thousand defective tests from China, he answered with one of the great pearls of transparency that gave us the pandemic: "I don't hide it, but I don't tell you." To me, Mrs. Rodil, when I hear you say that your will with this motion is to investigate and prevent, I feel the same way: I don't want to doubt it, but I don't believe it. Look, I firmly believe that, since the first full of this legislation, the only objective they have had was to try to impose their report on the management of the pandemic and to that end try to convince the Greeks basically of three falseties. First, they want to know the truth. Your statement does not match the facts, Your Honor. As you say, the speech goes on one side and the tone goes on the other. The People's Party has tried to promote an investigation commission in Congress, where all groups of this camera are represented. I believe that the area of research and debate was the right one. We could investigate the possible errors of the residential, public and private sectors; we could investigate the mistakes that the different autonomous communities have made; we could investigate the mistakes that the Government of Spain might have made; we could have compared the different models of management of the different autonomys, analyze strengths and weaknesses and draw conclusions. You voted 'no'. Where you could investigate and evaluate everything, you voted 'no', and now you demand to investigate and evaluate only in Galicia, one of the communities that had better results. If they then renounced the truth, what are they looking for now? I don't think the truth. Look, second of the falsehoods that try to move to the Greek society. This has as its objective to victimize itself as opposition and step by step to move the idea that in Galicia we don't have a perfect democracy, right? No, no, no, no. The Galician People's Party vetoes the investigation commission. It's a double lie. First of all, it's a regulatory lie. Article 52.1a of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber. You don't need the support of the People's Party to set up an investigation commission. They can do it alone and exclusively with their votes, they can do it tomorrow, they can record it today. A modification of the Rules of Procedure, which was made by chance in 2015 with the absolute majority of the Popular Party of this chamber and which allowed opposition groups to constitute an investigation commission, which was by all means denied to the People's Party when it was in the opposition, the lack of only one seat for the absolute majority. Why do they lie to families? Why do they lie to associations? Why do you lie to them by needing the support of the People's Party to create that commission? If they consider it necessary, they don't victim themselves, they don't cheat, they suggest it, they push it, they just have to do it. Second lie, or second lie derived from this lie: PP has something to hide. Of course, they intend to extend the suspicion that he kept alive during the pandemic all the obligations of transparency, the difference that you have made, gentlemen of the Socialist Party. Who has made all the data available to the state and the public, the difference between what you have done, and who has created advisory committees and made the name of your members public, the difference between you? But you need these instrumental falsehoods to transfer the last of the falsehoods, the central, the essential, the revealed truth of the left of Galicia, right? And what's that lie? He did it very wrong and Sánchez did it very well. That's what they want to convince us. And they intend to convince this to the Greeks, against all evidence, trying to create an alternative account that has no longer sustained than their own prejudices and their own interests. You deny questions that haunt you, Mrs. Castro. The only command was the Government of Spain. Yes, yes, he said, what he didn't say was that what he left to the autonomous communities was ordinary competition. [[Mr Castro Rey speaks words that are not perceived.]] Does it seem to you that the management of the world's largest pandemic of the last century, since the Spanish flu, is it an ordinary competition? Or not? How many lies have we heard! Look, you come here to tell us a number of questions and to demand a number of questions that, by the way, you're already making. Public intervention, and in addition insisting, and very much, Mrs. Rodil at the time when she didn't confuse this with nationalization. He's talking about supervision, counseling. It is already envisaged, which is called public guardianship by the Galician Union of all, of the 100 percent of the residences of this country. To protect, to protect. Tutorial, which indicates that protocols are marked, that ensure that they have to be complied with and so on, and when problems are detected the next step, which is intervention, is intervention. By the way, as we are asked in the amendment to Mrs Castro's report that we will clarify what are the protocols and criteria, it's funny, eh!, it's nice that the Socialist Party, who presented the indexary protocols one week ago, seven months after the pandemic started, presented last week a draft protocols, but he demanded it from the Board, which he has indeed since the first minute. And who's applying you? It applies to them the clinical committee of the Galician Union; as it said before, a committee where each and every one of its members is known and applies — and the president of the Galician Union has said on various occasions — and evaluates thirty different criteria and, according to these criteria, makes decisions. You ask us to intervene indiscriminately or to make protocols. I ask you, Mrs. Castro: during the pandemic, you created two protocols to advise the coward: the scientist and the economics. Who do you advise: the scientific committee, which does not exist, or the economic committee, which has not been convened since the day they created it? Which one of you is the advisor? Because I'd like to know, when you come here teaching, I don't know very well that, the truth. I'm surprised, I'm surprised. I think we should stop fooling people. Ask them to extend themselves! But if we're the only autonomous community that's making them, the only one in all Spain, there's no other. Ask the data to be published here! But they've been published since the beginning of the pandemic! You can tell me you prefer another systematization, and I accept it. But what you can't come here is to find a desire to hide data, to be opaque to those who have made data easier at all times, from minute one. You come here to ask for the dictates of the Galego Council of Wellness and to make the files easier. But if we push a commission yesterday where exactly they have to propose this! But if you have to propose a work plan! Well, nothing, I see you're done soon by the committee, at the first session, you're already completely discarding it? [[Murmurs.]] It makes me even more reassert in my doubts about your willingness to investigate and prevent. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Rodil, I think you came here the other way. And what I don't think they can do -- I honestly tell you -- what I think you can't do is deceive people, I think it's not right. I don't think it's right to tell people we're going to shield the residences, because there are no blisters. Your Honor, they don't exist. You guys don't seem to understand that we're facing a pandemic of an unknown virus. Look, in these last few days, different world experts have come out valuing the possibility that there was a new path of infection through the influence of the aerosols, a path of infection that was discarded a week ago by Dr. Simón. You will understand that if you are investigating, if you are discovering new possibilities for infection or infection pathways, new measures will be taken. Meanwhile, we will continue to apply those that have achieved the greatest cure ratios and have avoided many, many more than the rest of autonomous communities, or most of them. Well, we'll have to keep applying them. Why? Because they work better than other communities. This doesn't mean we shield the residences, because -- I repeat again -- it's to deceive people to tell them that you can shield anything. So much so that today, during the wickedness that this plenary held, the Government went out in the media saying that they are valuing extreme measures such as decreeing a state of alarm or curfew. How is that possible? Are we wrong about all the autonomous communities, absolutely all of them? Have all the governments done anything wrong? The only ones who have the revealed truth are the distinguished members of the Government? That will allow me, eh! but there are things I can't let go of. Let me come here to ask for real data, you who represent a government that today has not included in official statistics more than 20,000 victims of the coward!, is to shame anyone, according to the reports of death monitoring of the Government of Spain, and continue to deny it. It's embarrassing! Almost as embarrassing as you come here to stick to the percentage of private squares in Galicia's Union. Governmentan — I told you before — in the Deputation of Lugo. Do you know the number of privatized squares that facilitates the Deputy of Lugo? 100%.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u109	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u110	Lessons, fair lessons. [[Applause]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u111	Quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, it's over. That's it. [[Murmurs.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the motion's own group, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u112	Thank you, President. Yes, we will accept — and I say so, first of all, so that we may not be forgotten — the amendment tabled by the Socialist Group. You said I don't know what to be ashamed of. No, Mr. Pazos, I think what is a shame is your intervention, and I tell you frankly, and I explain why. [[Applause]] Because it is quite regrettable, Mr Pazos, that, after 831 people died in this country, 363 of them in senior residences, you come here to talk to me about Illa, read Rule 51 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure and talk about what I don't know. This is neither a war by account nor anything about the story, but we're talking about lives, about human lives; which I was saying in my first intervention: they're not collateral damage -- because they had previous and very old pathologies -- and they're neither figures -- as I said in the case, for example, recently, of the Joys -- which are assumed or naturalizable by no society, at all. [[Applause]] Do you know what the family members of the people who use the homes of older people were saying when the People's Party voted not to that investigation commission about what happened in the homes of older people? That it was absolutely unworthy that even if I wanted to investigate what had happened in the residences so that all those people would die, when it could have been surely avoidable. And I'm telling you today I'm going a lot more restless to the house than I came through this door, because you said today here that all the residences were guarded. And I wonder: if all residences, private and public, are guarded by the board of Galicia and we find ourselves — as happened in the Pereiro recently — on one day with 136 positives and the health counsellor says that "there must be a look at what happened," that is, are they protected and the board of Galicia is unable to know how 85% of users can be positive? [[Applause]] And he's got more to say! [[Murmurs.]] I mean, you're ensuring that the Galician board has control and guardianship of all private residences in this country, that suddenly there's a massive contagion that affects today 161 people in one residence, the councillor goes out publicly saying that he has no idea what happened, that there will be to look at it, and you're still accusing me — myself! — ask me who advises me? What would seem a scandal to me is that my Government has protected the residences and says that in a massive infection that affects more than 85% of the resident people don't know what happened, that you don't know what happened! [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] I insist that I leave here more concerned than I went through this door this morning. [[Murmurs.]] You were talking about the data and you were talking about the files. And so am I, for going to clarify something like that. The Committee on Reactivation which has just been set up in this Chamber is no excuse for Parliament, parliamentary groups and committees to continue to develop their work. They do not intend to excuse their negative vote on any of the initiatives presented by the groups saying "that we already speak there tomorrow". No, the files -- I said in the inquiry fifteen days ago to the advisor himself -- we, our group have requested since the possibility that the groups could request documentation through Article 9 was activated. We haven't been answered — at least to me, I don't know the rest of the group's partners or the other groups on this camera — nor even one of the written answer questions we have recorded. The minimum — I say — is that of these 32 sanctioning files that supposedly opened up to residences or entities — because we do not know that — in this country since the health emergency was decreed, the minimum is to know, for example: is one of them DomusVi? Because you went out of the candy and dish — we told you on the day of the interrogation — saying that a file was going to be opened in April to DomusVi, which is one of the groups that manages the largest number of residence squares, along with the San Rosendo Foundation, in this country. We've been waiting — for six months — to know something about what happened to that file. One of the 32 is from DomusVi? One of the 32s is a single residence? Are there several? How many sanctioning files have been opened to the two major groups that manage most of the homes of the largest private in this country, such as DomusVi and the San Rosendo Foundation? I say again what I said in my first intervention: the right of access to information in this chamber and the whole population is a democratic right. And you can take the page that's enabled by the Galician Board to report on the coronavirus figures and pick up any of the other broadcast platforms on any of the autonomous communities — from Madrid or Andalusia, which you rule — and they don't hold the nine test. I'm telling you, but with all the quiet and all the security: to post press notes in beta version, with absolutely static paintings, to post maps by colors without power or even access to the data of each of the incidences that are recorded in each of the municipalities...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u113	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u114	...is neither transparent nor democratic nor guaranteed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u115	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u116	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u117	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We now move on to the cumulative debate of two motions. Accumulation of two motions for their joint debate G.P. motion. by Mr Manuel Lourenzo Sobral, on the initiative of Mr Manuel Lourenzo Sobral, on the activities to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the impact of the covid-19 on education G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the problems detected in the implementation of the protocol of adaptation to the context of the covid-19 in the non-university education centres of Galicia for the course 2020-2021
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u118	There were no amendments to these motions. To formulate the motions, you have the floor, first of all, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral, by the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u119	President. Ladies and gentlemen. We were walking in these days with fellows preparing a teaching unit about Saint-Exupéry, and turning around an edition — very nice in addition — of The Beginning, rereading one of the passages — I think it's already classic — of the work that said about "What a strange planet is this where men do nothing but repeat those things they're sent to them!Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh And the truth is, maybe I already had a little head on these issues from the beginning of the course, but it's true that somehow led me to a very graphic description of what I think is happening in education in this house, in this parliament, in the last debates. And I remembered this because, debate after debate, proposal after proposal, initiative after initiative, the only one we find is a group that supports the Government solely in logic, propaganda, and repeating sine die those advertising slogans that emerge from the bubble of San Caetano, repeating slogans without taking into account at any time what demands and what are the objective problems we are having at the beginning of the course. And perhaps, as these types of interventions are progressing, because one has the feeling that the People's Party is giving it absolutely just as much as the proposals on the reality of the centres, which gives it a little bit what the situation that the educational community is demanding, which gives it the same thing as the initiatives that we move here. And I hope, Mr. Roderio, today gives me the opportunity to be deceived, but it is true that we meet with a People's Party with parallel dialectics, that at no time lends itself nor even to get the least to sink into the problems, that I believe are objective problems and that they are demanding solutions to shouts by the educational community. And if we have something clear, it is that, at this moment, with the start of the course we have ahead and with which it is falling, it's not moments of slogans, it's not moments of propaganda; it's moments of agreement and it's moments of responsibility; and that's why we don't lose hope. And, of course, if we have something clear, we're not going to contribute to that slogan league in which it seems to be intended to convert the debate on the start of the course. And that's why we want to come here to bring only what the educational community demands, to analyze those issues in which there were errors, to analyze everything that was not done well and to put those proposals on the table that we believe are absolutely essential so that we can deepen our solutions to these problems. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we've been saying for months that the educational community has been saying that the measures, the bandages that you came through with the security distances would bring serious problems at the start of the course. We've been warning for several weeks that failing to comply with the WHO guidelines and the June 22 health agencies would bring these kinds of problems, and they didn't do any case. Months in which you may have exercised your powers in relation to ratios, in terms of hiring teachers, in terms of space management, as demanded by the educational community, and so done, for example, in private education — which, so said, is the great benefit of the outcome that we have come to live at the beginning of the course by the People's Party — and they have done no case. And the consequences, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, because they're on the table for those who want to see them: clauses that while they were teaching the summer to prepare for the start of the course they met with a councillor who changed three times the criteria in two weeks about the distances. And so much of the same happens to the teacher's recruitment. We warned you on dozens of occasions, that it was necessary to hire more teachers, which was being demanded at the educational centres, in order to deal with this situation. And what we are dealing with is the manipulation of recruitment data, particularly in the ARCO programme, but also in the recruitment of the primary and child education teacher, which was solely to comply with the ratios. And I have no doubt that this kind of data manipulation can be used to cover up their shames on the TVG, but, of course, in the educational community it may be quite clear that they don't solve anything at all. Semi-perceptuality. I think it's important to repair a little bit of this, because if anything I think it's out of the question today -- to such an extent that even you had to recognize it and correct it late, bad and drag -- it's that presenting a measure of silence that was half-presensibility on 7 September was a barbarity; it was a barbarity that brought disastrous consequences for students in general and for students in particular. They didn't pay any attention to what the educational community was telling them. And quite the contrary, what we were told was that that of semi-presence, that option, would be the freedom of the centers. And while we were told that this was a matter of freedom from the centers, they denied the faculty of teachers at those centers and condemned the second-grader student not to be able to attend the class, not to have his right to a face-to-face teaching with selectivity around the corner. And the evil, gentlemen of the People's Party, is already done. For a second undergraduate student to lose a month of presence at the beginning of the course will have inevitable consequences. And that's why I think it's fair to acknowledge that, in the face of the slogan, in the face of propaganda, dignity. Dignity as shown by the families of the IES Sánchez Cantón, the IES Valle-Inclán, Pontevedra, the IES Castro Alobre, of Vilagarcia, as we just saw this morning with the IES Antón Fraguas, of Santiago de Compostela, who even today came to tell us that they were giving the lesson at least as important as those they would receive in the present education. And the lesson is nothing but in the face of injustice and discrimination. There's nothing else left to defend public education. There's nothing else left than mobilization. [[Applause]] I teach the distance, Mr. Roder. It was clear that for six months ago, we had to plan a protocol, some measures to see how that distance teaching would be based on a predictable and sadly probable return to distance teaching, which would be the teacher's training, which would be the schedules, which would be the curriculum implementation. We haven't had any of that yet. It's just that if we have to go back to teaching at a distance, we're absolutely the same as we were. Masks, gentlemen of the People's Party. It's just that you guys came here a few weeks ago saying you couldn't afford a masked student because that was little less than a dispensation. But, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, this very morning Alfonso Rueda was dedicated to making Xacobeo propaganda by massively distributing free masks. [[Mr. Lourenzo Sobral shows a photograph.]] I think it's something you have to answer to. [[Applause]] What is your priority, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party: the propaganda and slogan or the security of our children in the classroom, security in public education? ANPA, gentlemen of the People's Party. You know that ANPAs have a fundamental role, they do a job without which it's not possible, it's not viable educational life in schools. What happened to school dining rooms and morning plans is that they didn't have legal certainty to carry out these projects because, in case of a pandemic, they weren't covered. So what we found was a general manager who dedicated himself to insulting the ANPAs. It's not a receipt and in the educational community, of course, this situation has not been understood. But when I was listening this morning to the councillor of Fairy talking about the replenishment rate, it is, in fact, difficult to understand. 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, with People's Party governments in Madrid, where we had zero replacement rates, less than 2% in the education system, and you applauded with your ears. And now they come here as an adalytes to the replenishment rate. It's very good to remember Galicia when we're on an election campaign. What happens is, then, in reality, when decisions are made to defend the public services of this country, you repeat it is Madrid, Madrid, Madrid, PP, PP, PP and FAES, FAES, FAES, who truly marks the road map for you. [[Applause]] So, I'm done, I'm done... [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u120	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u121	...he's responsible for his actions, I have no doubt. So, finally, if I'm allowed, because we're also talking about education and it gets really ugly: in a case like this we want to move to you is that the proposals for this initiative, this motion, have as their sole aim to deepen those problems that move us to the educational community and provide solutions. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] I ask you, Mr. Rodeiro, that we be able to get at least to approach and talk about these demands, because I think they're fair and they're also what's moving to screams, day and day, the educational community too.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u122	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u123	The time has come — finished, president — very hard — a fall will come that will be tremendous with the situation we are suffering and with which the educational community will likely suffer...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. Lourenzo, after another shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u125	...and I think we should go ahead and put solutions in place so that what he was saying doesn't happen...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u126	You've got another shift later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u127	...the Principle and that we can do more than repeat what we are commanded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u128	Thank you, Mr. Lourenzo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, also author of another motion, Mr Álvarez Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, although it has absolutely nothing to do with this debate, but rather with the educational world, which has a first word for this French teacher who was murdered for defending freedom of expression, for fighting precisely the intransigence of what he was victim of. [[Applause]] Also, and on a previous basis — then I will step into the defence of my motion — since Mr Puy illustrated us in the morning between the difference between a auction method and other purchase method for a merger, a business acquisition — like that — I would also tell a member of the People's Party that seems to have some strange fixation with the Provincial Deputy of Lugo that there is a difference — between what is the public ownership of a residence and what is a concert with a private owner. The residences of the Lugo Deputy are of public ownership and therefore pay prices for public residences, not for concerted residences. He said what, and heeding what the Social Policy Counsellor said in his presence this morning, who said that the task of the opposition was to help the Government improve its performance, this motion goes precisely with that spirit. [[Applause]] We are not going to be catastrophic, but we must necessarily analyze what has happened, what has been wrong, which can be improved and, therefore, what is the best way to deal with the coming times, which, as Mr. Lourenzo Sobral has just said, are not particularly good, as it seems. What do we know? Well, today we know that the situation that stemmed from the pandemic that produced this coward-19 has put an unprecedented pressure on the Greek education system in the development of classes as a result of the closure of educational centres. We also know that the distance education that was needed to start from March, in mid-March, I put forward an unprecedented effort for all, for families — of course — for students — of course — but also — and especially for the teacher, who was the one with his work and his surrender to go forward in such a catastrophic situation. And we also know as an additional element that this situation of suspension of educational activity is particularly serious, it affects more families that have a worse socio-economic situation. And, therefore, it seems common sense, it seems obvious that the priority is to maintain present education, in line with what Mr. Lourenzo Sobral said in his intervention, taking how many preventive and hyxene measures are necessary to do so safely and maintain control of the pandemic. But we also know that the control of the teaching administration wasn't with the state as a single command. We know that autonomous communities have maintained their full capacity and responsibility for management. We know that the Ministry of Education, as far as it is concerned, has developed its coordination tasks among educational administrations and has taken the initiative to provide up to 20 meetings during that period. And we also know -- we know a lot -- that the development of this course is absolutely unpredictable. And we also know that, as the advisor said — and it's data he gave — nearly 350,000 students or some more than 9 million students across Spain require our utmost attention to develop scenarios with appropriate protocols that minimize the risks that lead to a suspension of ordinary education. And we, as a party of government, know that this presents a huge difficulty and that, therefore, the Government of Galician Union will rely on the support of our group always and when the protocols that put in place are the result of consensus with all the actors involved; consensus that has not been given in the initial protocol nor in the current protocol and — unfortunately I am afraid — in the protocols or the changes that must be made over the next few days or weeks. And why was that? Because the Government of Galician Union has centrifuged its responsibilities to the ANPA, to the management and teaching teams and to the municipalities. The ANPAs, who, as Mr. Lourenzo Sobral said, have developed a fundamental role, have already warned that it was practically impossible to keep services in operation like, for example, the school dining rooms they managed. And they were right to try the fact that the council ended up heeding their demands. Fegamp — we are talking about that in the appeal to the adviser who gave rise to this motion — has estimates that are going to amount to more than twelve million euros and more than seventeen million, depending on the needs to be met, the additional costs to be met. Imagination, ladies and gentlemen, how many social services will they stop providing with these 12 million euros, at least, what will they have to do with the municipalities? We were talking about them in the morning at the meeting of the Social Policy Advisor. [[Applause]] And, of course, the protocols we have today, after three months — three, uh! — of presentation of the first protocol, contain incorporations and improvements that are evident. But he gave up counting on the actors involved to improve them. We have a protocol published on September 24, the new protocol; we have another protocol on September 24, prevention in the dining rooms of educational centres; another for students of special educational needs, etc., etc., etc. And the Counsellor announced in his appearance — not in the interpellation — that they were going to develop protocols for recreation, for extra-school activities and for teaching vocational training. I'm greatly aware that these protocols are going to be developed when, of course, recreation and vocational training are already working, especially because the counsellor in his reply — a drowning response — said that in vocational training they were starting; no, strictly said they didn't start the classes — we were talking about two weeks ago. If the vocational training classes two weeks ago hadn't started, the counselor has a much more serious problem than the protocol in particular, because he had thousands of unschooled students. But well, it was the answer that occurred to him at that time. Because, precisely with regard to vocational training, the adviser made statements relating to measures and efforts carried out by the centres to develop the practical parts — to understand us — of the teaching of vocational training. But the protocol published by the board establishes as any indication that "for these teachings in the forecast use of these spaces, the use and hygiene of the elements and tools that may be used by several students should be detailed, and the details of the use of the equipment and the need for a continuous recall of the prevention protocols" (sic). End of date. This is all that the Protocol sets out for vocational training workshops, and this does not seem to give evidence of any, at least, extensive concern about what is happening with these teachings. The question is that they had references, they had contributions, they had ideas, like, for example, those of the Association of Vocational Training Centres, in which centers of Galicia also are integrated, which made a series of considerations about how the complexities of these teachings could be addressed in practice, but obviously they were not considered. I repeat, that paragraph I read is all that makes the Protocol. We also found room for improvement in the Edduovid program. We've already talked about this unfortunate incident -- let's leave it so that they don't say that we crumble unnecessarily -- with a center, where parents were warned that it was ending a confinement, a quarantine, in which their children were not. As a father, if I receive a notification from the health authorities saying that my son can already go back to class, after ten days at home, when he's been going to class every day, I would frankly, firstly, be concerned about the health of my children and, secondly, he would blink for the functioning of that system. And the counsellor, simply by making that fact public on the day of his appearance, accused us, like not?, of making, an anecdotic case, an apocalyptic scenario. Yes, he failed to say, as he once said in this House, that the opposition painted Galicia as if it were Mordor, a terrible thing; from going from concrete to general, making a wrong induction. And we didn't say at any time such a thing, nor that it was customary, we only exposed something that was of public domination and that made manifest a bad praxion. Today we can also say that there are cases found in those that occur from high school to high school before their teachers. So when students get back to the center, they don't have the teacher to teach. So our proposal is focused on solving a chaotic situation? No, let's not say that. What are we doing in front of a management that supports space upgrades? Yes, of course. So we want the Council to incorporate the approaches that parent and mother associations can make...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u130	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u131	... yes, finished, Mr President—the representatives of the professors, the management, trade union teams and the Fegamp for the changes he has to make from the protocols along the course and also...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u132	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u133	...which assumes the extraordinary expenses of those who are obliged to the municipalities. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We now move on to the intervention of the non-proposing parliamentary group. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tato has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, everyone. Mr. Lourenzo, at his previous full speech, took out the "3,000 protocols," because the rest said almost everything he had said in the previous plenary. But, well, the truth is, every time I hear them talk, it gives me the feeling that they make a drawing that I don't actually share. You said, Mr. Lourenzo, that we do not defend the public services of Galicia and, as we all know, and you also know, even though you will never recognize it, the public education of Galicia is among the best in the state and even across different regions of Europe. So... well, say the PISA report, I'm not saying it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's even at the level of Germany, Sweden or Finland in mathematics, and it's a community that even meets the level of the United States, the Netherlands or the United Kingdom -- in the PISA report -- in scientific competence. And besides, the Welsh students sit at Spain's head in scientific competition and they also scale mathematics. But even more, students who have an unfavorable socio-economic environment and who study in Galician schools have twice as many possibilities of having a high academic performance as those who study in Basque Country or other communities like Extreme or Canary Islands. This is how the PISA report appears in its regional comparison. I therefore believe that we have a good public service, which, indeed, we must improve among all; and I share, Mr Álvarez, with you the importance of dialogue with the educational community. And that's why I appreciate you -- I know you're a sensible politician -- it was also a good opportunity to tell your party in Madrid something, especially after what you're doing with the Celá Law, which for the first time in the history of democracy, the Government will pass an education law without listening to the educational community. That, of course, is an ejacism, especially an disloyalty for students, teachers, management teams and mothers and parents. As a counterpoint to what the central government does, I have to point out that Galicia maintains a continuous and stable dialogue with all those agents who have something to say about education; a dialogue with the council, especially with the state government and with other autonomous communities; a dialogue also with the Autonomous Board of Directors; a coordinated work with the Health Council, the Amtega and the Social Policy to develop different actions that allow educational centres to be safe spaces; meetings also with members of the School Council, which have served to listen to the educational community; meetings with the diversity care institutions, to continue to advance in those protocols for special needs; meetings with that educational committee that is meeting this afternoon, which is especially important at this time of pandemic and which comes, in some way, to work in a multidisciplinary way to improve and advance in this direction. There were also meetings with the associations of mothers and parents of the Greek teaching, the Confederation of the Ampa, the Confederacy of the Confederal, the Confederacy of the Confession of the Confession of the Ampa, the Confession of the Congapa, etc. And there were also meetings with Foanpas and Fampa, which allowed a number of improvements to school lunchers. So dialogue with the educational community, everything. I hope that we can continue to develop this dialogue with the educational community, especially because it is the best way to ensure maximum health safety, to ensure also the right to education and to maintain the quality of Greek education. In the two motions before us, we are also told of the contribution of more funds to the municipalities to assist in the cleaning of the centers, which are of municipal competence. I think it's good for you to make these kind of proposals. Nor would it be wrong for you, the PSdeG, and the Bloc, which is also in charge of Madrid, to do the same, claiming these 36 million euros from the covered fund, which were also claimed by the socialist presidents of Aragon and Castile La Mancha. [[Murmurs.]] When you do a proactive job of claiming what Galicia, all of the Greeks, and the Greek education system, then we would understand this proposal in this motion. In fact, the pandemic is asking for extra effort from all administrations, of course. And the health recommendations on cleaning are determined by the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education. Therefore, the Council assumes it in its centres with a fund of up to 6.5 million euros and an additional 7 million euros for that Guarantee Fund. Indeed, we thank and are aware of the great effort being made by the councils, the local administration, but, of course, the local administrations, as the Council of Galicia has, have their competences, and within their competences -- you reminded me here the other day that passed through municipal life -- that is, as article 7 of the Law on Local Plans clearly says. In fact, it says that public health, conservation, maintenance and monitoring of local buildings for educational centres is a municipal responsibility. So, we agree, but I would also like to remind you that the Board maintains an exquisite respect for municipal autonomy, faithfully fulfilling the commitments and agreements of the Fegamp through the local Covenant and monthly delivering to the municipalities the committed funds that correspond to them through the Local Cooperation Fund. It's very important to comply with the commitments that have been made. A serious administration has to do what you've agreed to, which is not currently doing the Government of the State, which has not been paying for the so-called VAT and stability funds for two years. So I think BNG again brings a general cause, indeed, against public education. The other day, we were talking about transportation, he talked about everything but transport. The truth is he has the speech very well taken, and, as you say, these mantras also repeat them every time he has occasion. But I'm not going to say anything because everyone does opposition as they consider. Here are the two spokespersons of the ratios. Indeed, Mr. Lourenzo is asking for a reduction in the rate by the pandemic, but the same rate was applied for before the pandemic. So nothing new. I mean, they don't fit the needs of the pandemic. For that reason, it must be noted that the Socialist Party has put numbers, numbers of teachers and numbers of teachers on the table, which, by the way, must be remembered, have been fulfilled. I know that data sometimes doesn't like it, but Galicia is one of the three autonomous communities with a lower teacher-student ratio and it's up to Navarre or Asturias. This reinforcement of teachers places us in 9.3 students per teacher and places us in the fifth community that made the greatest effort of the teacher in percentage terms. Therefore, this course is very clear; that is to say, it was in the Spanish group and was validated by the health, national and autonomous authorities to form children and primary groups of 25 pupils. That's the mandate that was established. So I think you should recognize that increase and the very important reinforcement made by the Galician Board with the hiring of 2,300 new teachers, which is 7.6% of the teacher's staff: 1,300 to meet the deployments and 1,000, as has been said here, for the Arc program. In points 3 and 4, Mr. Lourenzo speaks of consensualizing the protocols covered. For, indeed, it would be very easy if the Ministry also gave clear indications of the protocols, not only for children, primary and secondary, but also for vocational training. But the protocols are, of course, made to be fulfilled and it has nothing to do with the Education Administration, but we must heed the Health Administration and the health standards. I don't think there's any doubt about that. It's like you go to the hospital, because you don't tell the doctor what protocol you have to apply, but you actually have to adapt it to the health protocols. Mr. Álvarez also spoke about the management of classroom infections. Indeed, there was some imbalance in communication in its beginnings, which is resolved for greater assurance of the entire educational community, although we must be aware that zero risk does not exist. It was also mentioned on this platform Educovid, which I would like to put into effect, and also on the Covid-auto school program, which consists of a specific circuit to conduct PCR to the educational community through the Covid-auto. With this resource, we seek to accelerate the performance of diagnostic tests, reduce the time of suspicion and diagnosis and accelerate the process of identifying close contacts to reduce the stress of families and the educational community. We talked about semi-presence, like we didn't!, very much. And we talked about it even last week. Last week's data is that 98% of the centers in Galicia, of the 220 centers, had and were already operating in presence, and the trend is to go to zero. But, well, Mr. Lourenzo, you had very clear these World Health Organization ratios, which recommended a meter with a mask -- you know you don't want to recognize it -- and then on August 27, that data was changed. You manage together, because you rule in the Provincial Parliament of the Crown, and the Provincial Parliament of the Crown has a centre, which is the Puga Ramón, which, in fact, last week also had semi-presidency. I don't know today; it's possible not, but last week, 98% of the centers in the Union with face to face; 100%, the parliament - last week -. So it's very easy to say one thing and then the opposite where we rule. Finally, we speak of 162 million euros, which are the ones that have shielded the Education Council this course; so I believe that given this data, I have already told you that the People's Group vote will be negative. And the truth is that it's figures, data, percentages, which are very important, especially when we talk about ruling, because actually speaking is much easier than ruling. You come here, as they said, asking for free masks, and I have to tell you that the board makes it easy for 100,000 students who need it most. But you're not able to get the state to lower the EVV from the masks, and I'm telling you more, no autonomous community is doing what the Council of Galicia is doing right now. They come here asking for funds for the municipalities, and as soon as they had occasion they tried, somehow, to tease them with those funds. They come here to ask for dialogue, but they destroy the educational pact and prevent the participation of the educational community in parliamentary procedure. They come here to ask for consensus, and they impose a decree against the educational community. They're here talking about improvisation, but they're quiet until we've had to wait for the holiday minister, who the government vice president himself criticized him so much - they'll remember - So they come here to talk about presence, and the minister spoke about semi-presence while there was no vaccine. They come here to ask for more funds for education, but they shut up when they don't give us the 36.3 million euros. So they come here to hold one hand, and with the other, indeed, they encourage demonstrations. Well then, saying one thing and ruling changes a lot, because saying it's very easy and ruling because it's harder, and you have the habit of saying something where they rule and say the opposite where they are in the opposition. Look, we will continue to support the work of the Galician Board to further strengthen the education system, so that it will continue to be a pioneer in the state, so that Galicia can remain one of the three autonomous communities with the lowest teacher-student ratio, so that we will continue to have a dropout rate from the lowest in Spain, so that we will continue to go beyond Spain's average in all the competences of the PISA report, so that we will continue to be leaders in school transport, so that it will remain a community with the lowest university rates in Spain, so that we can increase multilingualism, so that we can strengthen vocational training, so that we can improve the technological classes, above all, to continue to have a fair education system, the most equitable and inclusive of Spain, where 92.7% of its students with special educational needs is integrated in the centres, and also to make it easier for families to be proud of the education system, improving these surveys. I have already finished thanking the work of the entire educational community, which are achieving a great collective challenge, that the classes are safe spaces, and, of course, thanking the entire educational community, the students, the management teams, the consulting teams, the territorial heads of staff, the inspection teams, the ANPA, etc. I believe that among all of us we must continue to make progress in this matter. So, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u136	Thank you, Mr. Roder. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author groups of the motion. Mr. Lourenzo Sobral has the floor for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u137	Mr. Rodeiro, believe me, that I come here and talk about the 3,000 protocols, I shouldn't worry about you; perhaps, what the Education Advisor said in the interview with La Voz de Galicia this weekend, in which he said, sadly, we had to have a protocol at each school. So don't worry about what this Member says and apply the story a little more at the Education Council. He was talking to me about the dialogue with the ANPAs. It's really because some of us did the exercise of being systematically reunited with the ANPA federations, when they were systematically told that they didn't even receive them. When I talk about dialogue with the ANPAs, I don't know if you're referring to what Mr. Pérez Ares said: "Education accuses Foanpas of politicalizing with school lunchers." Is this what you mean when you talk about dialogue with the ANPAs, Mr. Rodeiro? I think, and I insist, that this was an improper indignity exercise of a territorial boss, and I'll return to you to tell Mr. Pérez Ares to apologize because these statements are absolutely entrepreneurship. I agree -- I do, I do listen to you -- with what I was saying around IES Puga Ramón, but I do realize that as soon as you're concerned about what happens in that center -- which is managed by the deputy -- they're slow to assume responsibility in managing that center, which is a responsibility that corresponds to the Education Council. They therefore cease to discharge their responsibilities to other administrations. If you care so much, gentlemen of the People's Party, you begin to assume your own responsibilities. It's funny too, and it's not surprising enough, that for the insignificant one who looks like the representation of the BNG in Madrid, the insignificant one who looks like the role of Nestor Rego, they don't take it out of their mouth. And I would also like to hear how the People's Party demands these 36.3 million euros. But what we do not understand is that, on the one hand, they come here to demand these EUR 36.3 million and that in Madrid their 10 Members vote in favour of the criteria for allocating the funds. Hurry up, gentlemen of the People's Party, or something or the opposite, because both are hardly sustainable. [[Applause]] As for the ratios, I think you do what happens to the dairy bills: if you drink a liter of milk, Mr. Rodeiro, and I don't drink any, you say we drink half a liter each. With the ratios you do absolutely the same thing, you know that we have a problem of aging and depopulation in the provinces of the interior, and that, therefore, based on that reality, on the average ratios come out of lower ratios, but you know perfectly that in the provinces of the coast, and in particular in the Low Ries, where we have a higher population density, the centers are absolutely massive. So we meet again with a government that cheats solo, because the situation at last is in the day-to-day of each center. The centres suffer from massification in times of pandemic, which is also an easily predictable situation if they had simply heard what the educational community was asking for. As for the Special Educational Needs Protocol, Mr. Rodeiro, you come here to assume a protocol and it turns out that the protocol was presented six months late and one month after the start of the school course. What about those students who were in school, who had special educational needs and who couldn't be cared for, who didn't have staff to be cared for and who had no resources to be cared for? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I believe that we again attend the same, the systematic refusal to meet the demands of the educational community that are absolutely objective. All of the points that were considered in our initiative are public demands and published by the educational community. You'll know why they don't want to meet these needs, they're absolutely objective needs, and of course, for the coming times and for the difficulties we've got in the future it will be necessary, without any doubt, a very different attitude on the part of the People's Party. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u138	Thank you, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u139	I'm inhibited, but... Now I'm uninhibited. [[Laughter]] Thank you, Mr. President, for your disinhibition and for giving me the floor. Mr. Roder, you're very well aware of the PISA report, we all know it, but it has nothing to do with what we're debating. It is not a question of assessing which positions we are in the ranking of scientific competence, of reading competence, etc., etc., nor of assessing in which relative position we are no longer in relation to other autonomous communities, but to other countries of the European Union or even other continents. It is very well, we know, and we rejoice, of course, that the Greek education system has these results, how are we not going to rejoice? We don't want our education system to be bad, on the contrary, what we want to do is improve, and that's why I told you before this initiative is going to try to improve what it means to protocols and collaboration with municipalities. You were talking about the importance of dialogue, and you put the Law to Heaven. I don't know very well whether you were referring to the parliamentary process of modifying LOMCE or something else. In any case, I'm going to give you a couple of daisies on this matter: the bill was passed by the Council of Ministers on February 15, 2019. The public deadline for allegations has begun, as in any rule, by complying with the Law of Transparency and Good Government, which we also have in this Parliament and in this autonomous community. And the time limit for allegations has been extended. So, if you say you're doing with scurantism and you don't take participation into account, let me kindly tell you what's missing, I think deliberately, actually, because you know what you said is not true. I also have him for a responsible politician and he knows that what he said doesn't fit into reality. And now it turns out you've had... you're not, the Government of Galicia, the Council, a lot of meetings with a lot of collectives... a lot, a lot of everything, and that from October on, when the suspension of the classes was from mid-March, and the Beta Protocol was published in July. That's right, three days after the autonomic elections. You heard them, but you didn't hear them, you didn't hear them, you didn't even hear them so much, because hearing them is when you listen, but you don't listen, but you didn't even get the ANPAs when they moved the difficulties to put the school dining services into operation. We would now, I don't know why; well, yes, certainly, the Council preached or was flexible and permeable to the demands of these collectives because they knew that, otherwise, they would not be able to operate the school dining rooms. You say you're grateful for the effort the municipalities are making. Mr. Roderio, one thing is to collaborate in the regular maintenance of schools for children and primary education, which is a competition that is in the Organic Law of Education and also in the Law of Local Administration of Galicia, as you say, and another thing is to talk about regular spending. But this reality is extraordinary, and as an extraordinary reality that demands action from the councils and therefore extraordinary expenses, it would seem very appropriate that the Council of Galicia should make an extraordinary effort in providing them with the necessary resources. As you do not!, you speak of this claim of the 36 million euros missing from the Autonomous Community of Galicia in the distribution of the covered fund, of section 3, of education, but you also know that this distribution is made on the basis of the number of pupils in two stages of age: 80% up to 17 years and 20% from 17 to 24. I would tell the councillor the other day — and I repeat it to you — whether the pupils in Galicia now eat more than once a day in the school dining room or whether they should be taken to school more than twice a day in school transport. Because in that claim if you're mixing school lunches and school transportation expenses, when it has nothing to do with the number of students. By the way, you said it's the best ratio in the state, with 9.3 students. I ate it updating the data. The Ministry of Education has published data and figures from the school year 2020-2021, and in this publication the Autonomous Community of Galicia is in 10.3 pupils; it is no longer the lowest ratio; it is the second with the lowest ratio. There are a lot of autonomous communities that are under 11 students, and the average of Spain is 12.2 students per teacher. So it's okay, but the difference between the state average and the Galician is not how to warn the rocketman either. Look, I'm done. Speaking of statistics, Mr. Lourenzo put the example of the liter of milk, and I'm going to put another one. If you put your feet in a 50-degree freezer and your head in a 100-degree oven, you know that your body is 25-degree, which is a very comfortable temperature. [[Laughter]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u140	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. [[Murmurs.]] [[Laughter]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Martín Seco García, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with forest fires
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u141	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion, Mr. Martín Seco García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my intervention by roundly condemning, as the Socialist Party always does, all those who plant fire in the mountains and do so much harm to our natural and material heritage and, of course, to the integrity of people. I say this before the leaders of the People's Party take the floor and speak to us again about criminals and try to blame the opposition parties for not condemning such a repugnant action. At this point, we will surely be able to make progress on this issue and not to continue to explore this issue in order to evade its competences. On the other hand, I also want to thank you for your intense work and dedication to all those who leave their efforts and their health to protect us all. And I do it not only because we think of it from the Socialist Party, because surely from the People's Party — as the adviser did in the interpellation of the last full — they will take advantage of the criticisms we make from the People's Party in the Government to hide them behind the professionals as if it were a criticism towards them. But they know perfectly well that when we criticize the lack of coordination or the lack of training by some agents, criticism is not towards them, they are towards the leadership of the Rural Council and towards their abandonment of prevention services, simply because of the disloyalty of the so-called advisor. That said, already denounced the incendiaries and valued the work of fire service professionals, gentlemen of the People's Party, they have no more excuses. Year after year they burn the same places as Ourense and you and your president treat them as if it were a classic, as if we were talking about a Frank Capra movie. But we can't resign ourselves to this; we can't wait year after year — as Mr. General Director of Mountain Defence said — that if we have a given weather, thousands of hectares are burned back on our country's lungs and they end up blaming four supposed fools who have nothing else to do. We need effective public policies to fight against the abandonment of rural areas. This is the real basis for the fight against fires, because when 80% of our territory has activity, the possibilities of fire fall exponentially. And that's exactly the intention of this motion, to ask the Government of the United Nations to leave so much to announce the bomb and plate in the media and carry out policies of boosting activity in the territories abandoned by the successive governments of the People's Party that end up bringing the most painful consequences to this territory, the forest fires. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party — I told the councillor the other day — it is outrageous to see how year after year we resign ourselves to wait until the rain comes to put out the fires. You're incapable of doing anything different, which is spending tens of millions of euros on extinction. As you will understand, before the resignation of the Greek Government, we ask them again to change the policies of defence of the mountain and the people who send them to someone with a more innovative criterion than the resignation to face the crack of the recurrent fires that ravages Ourense year after year; this year 10,000 hectares, which, in the media, the councilman has evidently sold as a success. The reality of the matter is that the gainful activities are marginal in Ourense province, which was said the other day: only 8.2% of the meat farms and 1% of the dairy farms, and the forests are also residual, with only 5% of the wood cuts all over Galicia. This means that the territory becomes a biomass bomb, with hectares of matte and mountain disordered continuously, without the natural cortex that forms the land of labor, the meadows and the pastures, which protect mountains and houses, and with almost no forest-preventive forestry in the forest masses. It is hardly understood that the Galician Union is not looking for a productive exit to the thousands of hectares of abandoned partial concentration, when this country, moreover, is deficient in food production and forage for our gain home, having to import it from other continents; a very circular policy, by the way. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, they are betting on real land mobilization policies, encouraging production and encouraging forest management and leaving so many windows and mirrors in rural and model villages, because our interior needs more politics and less propaganda. They spend 90 million euros a year on extinction services and so little on prevention. Forest Development and Development speaks of the failure of their policies. I remind you again of what the Council of Auditors said in 2016 with regard to the 1992 Forest Plan. He said that the year 2030 had to be reached with 87% investment in forest development and development and that 13% should be devoted to extinction and prevention; and in the past twenty-eight years, the proportion is still the reverse. I used to talk about window policy. These days we were able to see the media advisor commit to a new, consensual fire prevention law in 2021. And the other day, he was told in the interrogation that they had taken out of the drawer the 2017 Forest Plan review, in agreement with our party, which seems to have already been forgotten after he served the current advisor to get to his position. Do you know what measure No. 11 of the Special Committee on Non-Permanent Study and Analysis of Forest Policy Reforms was? It was the following — textually —: "To collect in a single legislative text all existing legislation on the prevention and extinction of forest fires in Galicia. This recast must take place before 1 January 2019." After failing to comply with the ruling approved by themselves in 2018, which talked about recasting all the regulations before January 2019, we came with this announcement. This is the reliability of the Greek Government in matters of promises and fulfillments of what they themselves do. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we received multiple complaints from the Fire Department staff — as I told the councillor the other day — about the failure to coordinate air services allocated to the fires of that weekend, about the serious fires that took place in southern Ourense. But the councilman didn't respond to anything of our inquiry about whether the media were the same as the previous years and who was involved in such coordination, because he knows that the media were smaller. Nor did he want to explain why this year was not agreed upon on the basis that existed in the previous years at the foot of the Jurés Park, because it is unfortunate to see that the Council does not meet its commitments to the mountain communities. In addition, we have received complaints about a systematic failure to coordinate the different terrestrial media, which have made a superhuman effort, with brigades that should have at least five components, but which come on many occasions with 2 or 3 and in any case with one component, which is clearly insufficient personnel, and is even dangerous. There are multiple casualties of uncovered forest agents; forest districts that had to have 20 or 23 agents, have 14 or 15; in forest districts with an area of more than 100,000 hectares there are shifts where only one agent is counted for the turn in the middle of the day; in 13,000 hectares have fewer forest and environmental agents than in districts with only 59,000 hectares; and this year in some late and poorly 3 environmental agents without previous training to cover only the month of October the vacancies that need to be covered all year. This is the panorama. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the councillor did not object to why they gave up their earlier proposals in the Pladiga to expand the investigative agents. You should understand that one or two district agents dedicated to this must be clearly insufficient, as you believed until recently. The other day, the councillor pulled his chest to the end of the strike by the technicians of the Prevention Service and Fight Against Forest Fires; that is, he was delighted that at last he himself had decided to sit in dialogue with them, as if this was the only end, to put an end to the strike. Let's hope that he will now put a little bit of a head in the search for a solution for workers who are simply looking for a better organization of work in order to develop it with the necessary quality. We need to advance the professionalization of the sector with high-risk work in which in many cases appropriate wage conditions are not guaranteed, adequate material and technical equipment, and essential training for fire extinction and prevention work. All of this leads to greater disunity, less effectiveness and greater deprofessionalization of jobs where danger and risk are constant. Fire prevention work is not done in due time. Most of the prevention work for the year 2020 was not done in September, and others were being done in a hurry, when we all know that they should have been done before July. And there's no excuse for the topic of coronavirus, because forestry has been one of those matters considered essential for the administration, and this is also a situation that we live year after year. In the Pladiga, reference is made to actions directed to the population, among others, sociological and environmental education actions, but we find that most of the so-called forest classes are closed and there are no training and awareness campaigns directed to the school population as a whole and not to citizenship; one of the objectives that is not met because there is no desire to carry out these essential actions to change behaviors. If we want to change these behaviors and if we want Galician forest ecosystems to be valued, we must carry out education and awareness-raising campaigns aimed at the school population and also at the whole of the rest of our citizenship. The work of reconciling the interests of the Rural Council and the cross-cutting policies between departments of the Rural Council and other councils is a failure. And what about coordination with the neighbouring country to act in the fight against fires? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it is important to discover the incendiaries, of course, but we must investigate the causes, the patterns of behaviour of the incendiaries and the failures and breaches of the legislation. To perform a good prevention, a professional, specific and appropriate research is needed. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, stop propaganda and approve this motion, because today you are for the forestry policies of this country as Ana de Bande for equality policies. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u143	Thank you, Mr. Martín Seco. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. González Albert.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. Go forward first of all our vote in favour of this Socialist Party motion; a motion that, in our view, is a broad review - and therefore very general and little entry into detail - of the fire prevention and fight system in force today in our country. A system that, as it is now designed and as the teimuda reality strives to make manifest over and over again, makes water everywhere. This is a starting point for us as good as anyone else to go back to the 2007 Fire Prevention and Defense Act. There would be a lot to talk about here about how their effective implementation is carried out to solve a problem that goes far beyond the summer fires of every year. Because this serious problem, that of the fires, is just the most aggressive symptom of the severe disease that our rural society suffers and that the People's Party's Union seems unwilling or unable to cure: the chronic and progressive depopulation of rural in general and of the interior of Galicia in particular. [[Applause]] It's that there's a basic question and that sometimes it seems that the Galician Union forgets: a live rural doesn't burn, a living mountain doesn't burn and, therefore, as long as they take no action to end the abandonment and depopulation of the countryside and make a clear bet for policies that allow a dignified life in it will die and therefore burn year after year without remedy. [[Applause]] But we're also talking about a service here, the prevention and defense against forest fires, which works the best that can and does the best of you, because it's, as PSOE's colleague said, made up of great professionals, despite the obvious lack of means and staff to which the Rural Council has submitted it. And yet, from the ranks of the Government and the parliamentary group that supports it here, it is insisted on the mantra that any criticism of the PP fire policy is an attack on professionals and service professionals. Let me tell you one thing: repeating a thousand times a lie doesn't really make it. [[Applause]] The PSOE motion collects in points 2 and 3 the lack of means and personnel of the service, a point that would be more complete, in our view, if we also introduced the question of the problems of effectiveness that bring with it the fact of the existence of brigades ascribed to different administrations, joints and councils, to which the brigades of the public enterprise Seaga, the supra-municipal emergency groups and even the Military Emergency Unit at specified times, a unit that, the UME, which does not even respond to civilian orders and that on many occasions has actions of extinction by slowing down the decision-making processes. Because this, the need for coordination, is also an obvious matter even for anyone who binds on the subject and has been a source of problems in multiple operations. Because, look at you, how do you really defend people who are part of the firefighting service by providing them with the necessary means and reopening the surveillance posts that year after year appear in the Pladiga as if they were in operation when they have been closed for years, covering all staff casualties that are recurrently not covered, solving and ending the very high rate of interactivity that is in the service, providing the districts with all the necessary personnel and keeping that staff in decent working conditions that allow, for example, the members of the biannual brigades to not have to fight with the Galiza Group in the courts in order to be able to work the rest of the year in other administrations and thus to survive with dignity, or not giving the finale to Seaga workers in the past month, while, at the same time, private companies are being asked to do cleaning work that could be done from the public. It's seen that from the private company it's easier to buy wills. [[Applause]] The board continues to repeat year after year, fire after year, which is the only fault of the incendiaries -- and this has already affected PSOE's companion -- that the incendiaries are criminals and that the issue of fires is a matter of public order. And, of course, I think that's the problem, that if we don't know how to analyze reality, it's very difficult to articulate valid policies and, therefore, reach solutions. Because reducing the question of fire to a problem of public order means closing your eyes to the current situation of our mountains, with abandonment, depopulation, eucalyptus and pine monoculture, lack of social uses, etc., and we could go on. All of these aspects are decisive in the fact that the fires spread on a larger surface, which are increasingly virulent and which also affect more forcefully and in the same areas will be summer after summer. [[Applause]] Now the advisor has just found out that creating discontinuities can be a way of confining the fire into smaller areas, and sell us this idea as the solution of the future that will solve all our problems. We agree that creating discontinuities is very important, and that there are pastures, areas of cultivation and livestock in use, etc. Great, fantastic idea! And I ask them, who will take care of those discontinuities in a rural without inhabitants? In a village, for example, of the massive Central, where there are only two neighbors living, who will keep those pastures that will be created? In a place of the highlands of the Bolo, where the youngest neighbor is 79 years old, who will take charge of a flock of cattle? With one would advise that today is not even able to keep the existing cutters clean, what active policies will lead forward so that people in rural areas can live and keep these new discontinuities clean and in production? All this without talking about any more thought-out initiatives, in our view, in order to reach a headline in the press than to actually affect it in the territory. I'm talking about programs like model villages, which seems to be the star program of the advisor in this legislation and which, at the moment, is little more than a project towards the gallery. 13 years ago, according to the Commission 7th, in different degrees of execution throughout the country, in a country with more than 30,000 units of population, even though its policies are making more and more villages and places abandoned. That's our reality: 30,000 units of population in front of 13 model villages. How will the model villages solve this reality? And in this context, moreover, the PP seems to lose the province of Ourense, a province that concentrates around 60% of the high incendiary parishes in the country; a province that often seems to be little more than an inconvenience to the People's Party of Galicia. And I wonder, did they leave her to the reward of the Baltar dynasty? Is that why they allow them to do and undo their werensanity? That's why they allowed them to convert Galician interior into a hermitage where it only seems to serve and interest PP as a voter when an election period arrives? [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Counsellor just declared, just over a week ago, in an interview given to Europe Press, that in this campaign we will not reach the 17,000 acres burned to the top. I want to tell you one thing: that a government is going to target a campaign that doesn't exceed 17,000 hectares of burned down is a barbarity; it's, at the bottom, an explicit recognition of a failure. It is inconceivable for this honourable Member who is speaking from the stage that is being held in charge of a director general of Monte Defence who has been in office since 1996 or, what is even, through eight different advisers, with the only step of Alfredo Suárez Canal, when from that moment the problem of fire has not only been solved, but has become worsened with more and more burned hectares, with brute peaks like the one in 2017 and with increasingly aggressive fires. [[Applause]] What exactly is being awarded? What great capacities as manager, which we do not know of the rest of the Members and Members of this House, are so evident to the succeeding advisers of the People's Party? Let the director general make public statements saying that early this week from September 12 to 17, they were expecting a strong burning activity in the central mass, that prevention measures were not increased, and that there is no political responsibility assumed today is an insult to intelligence. They do their work, put in place policies that end with the resurgence of fires in our country, solve the continuing fires in the Central Mass, in the Juries, in the East of Oresan, they carry out the work that the citizen charged them with and stop sheltering themselves in the constant pit of the inevitable of the fires. Because, you tell me, I wanted to know what is being done to comply with article 49, for example, of Law 3/2007, with regard to the taking of urgent measures to prevent the degradation of burned areas; jobs that know they have to be immediate so as not to cause insurmountable damage. Why in this country has to be again the population, the neighbourhood, which it takes forward initiatives to try to save the burning, as has been done this year, for example, in places like Rebordchao or Vilar de Barrio, and thus to beg for the inaction and abandonment of the Board of Galicia? Finally, there are other measures in the PSOE motion that are for us of pure common sense; so, so, so common sense that the People's Party endeavours to do the opposite year after year. For example, the obvious case of proposal number 5, which talks about doing fire prevention jobs before the July month of each year, while we're seeing how in this same exercise subsidies for the cleaning of mountains in common and sulphur co-financed by the EAFRD funds began to solve in mid-September. I ask again: what prevention is done like this? What prevention is done when part of the cleaning and dew work is also left in the hands of the most challenging municipal brigades, which in addition to charging the municipalities with the realization of a competition that is not their own, they only serve in practice as a local placement agency to pay for shift favours and gain political will in the face of electoral processes? It is not feasible for the counsellor to sanction the owners of abandoned land due to the high percentage of plots with unknown owner in the province of Ourense. [[Applause]] So it seems that the councillor is not part of a government in this country and he could not legislate to reverse this situation. It's over. In short, what our country needs is a complete review of fire-fighting policy that prioritizes the fight against active policies and stops confusing mountain politics with forest policy, because where there is deforestation the mountain burns and where there is management of the mountain does not burn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u145	Thank you, Mrs. González Albert. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Armada Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u146	Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Mr Seco, the commitment to PSOE's equality already proves to us by keeping a vice president who is marked by justice for a crime with aggravating gender. That's the engagement this left has. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] By entering into the matter and concerning the interpellation that you put here on October 6 concerning forest fires in the territory of the Galician Community and a series of requests to substantiveize the previous interpellation and structure the current motion, I mean that it is a document with a set of incongruent demands by putting relief actions that the Union has already set in motion, and indicates a lack of knowledge of the action of the Government of Greece and the activities carried out. Firstly, consideration is given to the need for a plan to recover and promote agricultural and forestry activity. In this sense, since the Conseilaria do Medio Rural is being promoted by the future Law of Recovery and Value of Land; a law that is undoubtedly essential for advancing this objective, since it complements the development of the current legal framework to culminate in the Law of Improvement of Agrarian Territorial Structure of Galicia. In addition, the Law on Recovery and Value for Land is not only a continuous implementation of initiatives that enable the advance improvement of the territorial structure of Greek agricultural and forestry farms, but also to promote their profitability. In addition, these were contemplated in that parliamentary forest commission you mentioned earlier after the 2017 fires and collected 22 of your recommendations, 22! [[Applause]] This future law seeks, as an integral part, to consolidate the fixation of population in the agriculture of our community, to facilitate the territorial base for the farms that need it, to prevent fires and to work for demographic recovery and for the improvement of the quality of life in rural Galicia. This includes voluntary land mobilization mechanisms, as well as tax benefits and other measures to promote recovery projects. In this way, the entire Greek Community would be provided with future initiatives of a set of rules to form a coherent and effective legal body towards the contribution of agricultural space and its productive systems. Mr. Seco, you spoke in your interpellation and called words "resignation", "repetitive policies", "not encouraging activity", "don't give profitability" and, above all, my favorite, "use the policy of the headlines." So, the pastoral plan, the development of agricultural and forestry polygons and, above all, model villages, do they really look like eids with a sign? No, I'm not, and I invite you to go, for example, to the village of Osmo, to Ourense, and to talk to your neighbors, and ask them what the project they're doing seems like, because they're giving added value to the earth. [[Applause]] Even so, with regard to your consideration, the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, on the professionalization of the Prevention and Extinction Service against Forest Fires, it is necessary to show a new lack of knowledge, especially in relation to its functioning; by the way, one of the best prevention services in Europe, and I do not say so. [[Applause]] One of the most outstanding features of the Forest Fire Prevention and Extinction Service is the so-called professionalism, which is manifested in coordination and in an extraordinary provision of it with a disregard for the rest of the territory of Galicia, which is represented by optimal assistance under the sole command of the Galician Union and which allows an effective extinction of the fires, with a marked time of reaction and in accordance with article 49 of the Law on Prevention and Defence against the Forest Fires of Galicia. But it's the continuing improvements that have been invested in this service that justify their professionalization. Within the framework of the recommendations of the dictation, he worked very hard to strengthen the Galician Fire Prevention and Extinction Service towards its configuration as a unique and versatile public service. In this line, improvements in human and material resources, improvements in personnel, equipment and air and land resources, monitoring, inter-administrative coordination and forest management were continued. In 2020, 500 operators worked in the Seaga public service until 2017 and doubled the minimum working time of nearly a thousand members of the service, with a public expenditure of 12 million euros per year. [[Applause]] Assemble, in material provision, EUR 6.4 million was allocated both for maintenance and for the purchase of motorcycles, construction and repairs on stations and air bases, rental of vehicles for brigades and agents, as well as for obtaining different equipment and tools; measures that have already been drawn up in recent years also for the training of workers and service workers, their wages or the option for the sub-category, among other things. Finally, a substantial improvement in the conditions of the collective, with which the continuous dialogue is fostered. Another of the issues that are classified as basic pitting in the face of forest fires and which have been raised by the Greek Government is the axis of research, especially in relation to the main cause of forest fires in our territory, which is explained by the intentionality; yes, of intentionality. That's why focusing on research and citizen collaboration against these incendiary behaviors is one of the keys to the fight against the incendiary problem. For these purposes, first of all, we need to highlight the action of environmental agents in the Rural Environment Council in collaboration with the state's security forces and bodies. And second, the provision of technological support to carry out the task, from latest-generation cameras, mobile phones, drones, computers and other computer devices and custom research programs. However, it also stresses the importance of the responsibility of citizen awareness. In this sense, it is necessary to mention the existence of the authorized telephone number for the complaint of incendiary offences, 900 815085 - which, of course, I never listen to them -. Because citizen collaboration is fundamental. And all this is complemented by a specific, monographic plan for the prevention of forest fires, which are around EUR 30 million invested in actions on the territory and which are implemented in preventive forestry works, which have been carried out on nearly 46,000 hectares, as well as in the creation and improvement of forest defence infrastructures, acting around 5,800 kilometres of forest runways and other channels of communication distributed throughout Galicia. [[Applause]] These performances were from May 18 to July 13. In this regard, prevention work has been carried out in time and form, as stipulated. In this case, it is also obvious that the main cause of the fires in Galicia is intentionality. And yes, I also want to stop here because I'm curious that from here, from the Galician Nationalist Block, if you come to tell us... look what set fire in Galicia when I rule the Bipartite? Were they lightnings, thrones, plots? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because I got to hear that I was up to a plot of PP mayors. Well, here's one part of the plot. [[A Mrs.: Yes.]] But you know what's going on? [[Mr. Armada Pérez lifts a hand.]] That plot wasn't such a plot, it was man! It was the heist, the heist we had the mayors to be next to our neighbours and, above all, to be at the service of the extinction services. [[Applause]] But, well, also, if they want to talk about the surface, for, of course, it burns you in four years, what others burned in sweet, because of management, of management, we can't talk much. [[Applause]] As far as willfulness is concerned, it is clear that this is a matter of public order here. Three out of every four forest fires produced in our autonomous community are intentional, circumstances which confirm, in addition, the professionals of the Forest Fire Prevention and Defense Service and which justifies the actions of the Greek Government intensification, the resources of the media, the investment and research and the continued promotion of citizen awareness. In conclusion, a sum of efforts to counter intentionality, whose dimensions in our community are intolerable; efforts to carry out structural prevention through planning and management of the forest area, and the recovery of agricultural and livestock activity in abandoned lands, so that they generate discontinuities in the territory and that they are able to stop fires or, at least, reduce their impact, as well as to dominate all those actions that promote the protection of our villages and encourage the mobilization of land; basically actions that make Galicia more resistant to forest fires. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u147	Thank you, Mr. Armada. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the motion's own group, Mr. Seco García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u148	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, Mr. Armada, lessons of equality, few on the part of parties that deal with other parties that don't even recognize that there is violence against women; few on the other hand. Besides, it gives the feeling that we don't have to come here anymore, firstly, denouncing the incendiaries; we don't have to come here imposing a value so they won't tell us that we're against the Fire Service workers. [[Applause]] Now also, next time, I'm going out with the phone here, which you told me, because I suppose I have to go out here advertising the phone, because you're probably incapable of advertising it. [[Mr. Seco García pointed his chest with his hands.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Look, the People's Party promises a lot, he talks a lot in the media, he does a lot of interviews, and they put names very clumsy to the things they say they're going to do, to the laws, but it turns out that of the 123 measures they've approved -- I know, by the way, in that committee of experts to analyze the mountain situation and also the forest fires -- I'm already taking it out here that measure number 11 has already failed -- when it hasn't passed practically any time -- when they said that they were going to give absolutely all the legislation on fires and that they were going to have it ready before 1 January. Yes, they come back here now and tell us that in 2021 there will be a wonderful law, but if they don't comply with the laws, they don't comply with the laws and the forest, and the German mountain is like it is because they're incapable; they didn't even comply with the law of 1992. If they don't put orders on the mountain, if they don't control anything that's done there! So what are you going to promise if then they don't do anything at all about what they write? Look, I was telling the councillor the other day: when one of the owners, in a community of neighboring mountains in the Jurés area, speaks to you practically with tears and explains that after 2017, of a fire so serious that you know -- because it's in the area -- he made with other fellow mountain communities a plan for the fight against fires that they presented to Junta and today, when he comes back on fire, he has no reply, do you believe that this is a success of the People's Party's policy in front of the Galician Union, in front of the Council of the Rural Environment? And we're going to talk about something else that I used to name the BNG spokesman. Now we have to go one step further. We have to do things to act on those thousands of acres lined up in a natural park like Jurés and also in the central massif. We still don't know what the emergency action is going to take by the Government of Greece to act on the burned ground and what the action will be done to prevent soil erosion, soil loss and pollution that can occur in river ecosystems on the subject of trawling. I think it's urgent today -- and so it's being said by mayors that you know well and much of the vicinity of the territory -- to start restoring those calcined mountains and helping the populations affected by fire. I don't know if you remember the statements made by the beekeepers about the absolute abandonment that they are subjected to in the Galician Union when year after year they burn their fangs or when you see a lot of livestockmen having to fix locks or looking for pastries where to carry the cattle after the fire. These people can see every day, but what they haven't seen was the staff of the Galician Union evaluating or performing jobs in fire-burning areas. And as I reminded him of the BNG spokesman, that work has to be done, because it is also included in the Law on Prevention and Defence against the Forest Fires of Galicia, in article 49, which speaks precisely of the maintenance and restoration of the land burned down. But you guys haven't done anything yet. It's funny that even before the Hydrographic Confederation begins to act on the Caldo River with measures to prevent a lot of pollution from reaching the river channels, and the Galician Union is neither expected nor expected. So, ladies of the People's Party, they act, they act fast, and they do something about the natural parks, because the Rector Plans is right that they be done and done on time, by the way, because in the Xures still doesn't exist, and where they exist, as is the case with the Winter Park, we don't know if they're doing absolutely nothing with those funds that have to be budgeted for this year, nor do we know whether the Galician Union, in addition to unrolled in a role -- which is important and which, by the way, they have no respect for the Thursday Park -- then it also has a clear plan of what the work is going to be done there, because it's very nice to say that we have many natural parks, but the important thing is soon to preserve them and act on them. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u149	Thank you, Mr. Martín Seco. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] G.P. motion. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Nossa Susana Díaz Varela, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in the field of reactivating the cultural sector in the face of the effects of covid-19
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u150	An amendment was tabled by the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u151	To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs. Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u152	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. In fact, this motion responds to an inquiry into the cultural sector reactivating plan in view of the effects of this pandemic that the German Government presented at the end of April and which in our view was an insufficient plan. Anyway, we are glad to have brought to light the question of culture in this parliamentary headquarters, because we think that these debates have finally highlighted its vital importance to sustain us as a society. And we say vital, and we don't hesitate to use that term. In that sense, we present this motion because, as we have already said on previous occasions, in times of confinement - unfortunately and probably we are no longer free - culture allowed us to entertain, escape and even dream that the walls that imprisoned us at those times were not so opaque or so hard. It was culture our oxygen balloon. At those moments when we seemed to drown, it was the cultural sector that, at those early moments of confusion, was there, taking care of us, aware that culture should be guaranteed and knowing that culture was and is part of the solution to this crisis. And why do I say this? Because, among other things, culture is, in addition, as demonstrated, a very necessary tool of social cohesion today. I wanted to invite them -- the other day with the interrogation I did something like -- to do a very simple exercise, and it's just to imagine themselves or alone in an empty space, without any possibility of interacting with anyone. If they had to stay there for a while, what would happen to them to break up with that loneliness? The answers can be very varied and varied, but I'm sure they would point to it: we would all hand out some cultural resource. That's why we are here today proposing to this House, as all the political groups have already done -- moreover, let's remember that unanimously -- recently, recently, in the Senate, or as has already been done in Germany too, that a public declaration of culture is consensual as good as first necessity. Public authorities must recognize that culture is not a luxury, but a necessity for our survival, as just demonstrated. It is, therefore, an asset of first necessity, in addition to a right that we must always guarantee and to society as a whole. His statement as such would have the objective of preserving it in the face of future crises, and so perhaps we don't have to go back to reactivation plans as presented this year. For this reason, we also think and we consider urgent an increase in funding for culture by the Government of Greece, which in these years has been unable to exceed only 0.7% of the funding for this area. The health crisis, as has already been said, is having a very strong impact on the cultural sphere. The Galician Council of Culture has published several working papers all these months showing its special vulnerability, as the Council itself said. His Observatory warned that cultural employment fell by 5.5 %, which means 2.3 percentage points more than the labour market as a whole in March. For all this, we expect a strong increase in the expenditure on culture in the next budgets - it may be, and we hope that yes - that it will reach 1% of the total public expenditure consolidated in 2020-2021. We also believe that in order to deal with these worrying years resulting from the pandemic it is necessary to present a new reactivation plan for the sector, by doubling at least the funds allocated to the first corresponding year; a programme that implements new resources, establishes direct aid and opens new cultural circuits; circuits that arrive to stay. Because, of course, what are the plans of the Greek Government from January 1st, 2021? By the way, an uncertain Jacobo. No, from the Socialist Group we say no. We must take advantage of this crisis for a paradigm shift in the model; that is where a plan of these characteristics should be framed, as we have already said. It's not just about reprogramming or opening new lines of action that are very interesting, but about taking advantage of this crisis to begin preparing the cultural model that will be rejected in Galicia over the next few years. Strategy, lack of strategy. Already in 2018, when the diagnosis was presented for the Greek culture in that year, the then president of the Galician Council of Culture - as I said in the interpellation, I don't think it's an organism for anything suspicious - warned that cultural policies in Galicia - and I quote textually - "are lacking strategy, diagnosis, planning and evaluation." Almost three years later, nothing changed. Of course, this must be done by dialogue with the whole sector, and when we say "all" it's all. They continue to handle the figures of the 230 agents who were dialogued with to make that plan of reactivation, and we continue to say that these 230 agents did not belong to the world of culture. And, of course, they didn't do it in the light of the public reply that had that first plan. Look, 17 Greek professional associations in the cultural sector moved in May, a few days after that plan was presented, their concern and disappointment by the proposal. They criticised - to mention some points - the absence of realization, the lack of protection of certain professional groups, the lack of transparency, the lack of essential health protocols and the mixing of regular programmes with exceptional programmes, which obviously made it very difficult to know the real effort devoted to the sector. And they also criticized the use of the crisis to enlarge Xacobeo 2021. And now - and I'm sorry that I'm going to bore them, probably - I'll tell you who signed this writing, so that later we'll be told that it's indeed been discussed with the sector. They wrote: the Galaga Academy of Theatre, the Galaga Association of Writers and Writers in Galaga Language, the Galician Business Association, the Galician Association of Musical Companies, the Galician Association of Professionals of Illustration, the Galaga Association of Professionals of Cultural Management, the Galaga Association of Living Music Chambers, the Galician Association of Video Games and Interactive Contents, the Galician Technical Producers' Association of Galician Exhibitions, the Galician Professional Association of Artists of Galicia, Curturgal — who on the other day the councillor spoke of Curturgal, the Galaga Coordinator of Film Festivals, Project, Galician Scene, Live Musics, Platforms affected by the Galician Coreographic Center and the Union of Galician Cooperatives. Dialogue with the sector? [[Applause]] I have nothing clear about it. From here on, please, we have asked the Government of Greece to sit down and talk to them, these associations, all professional associations in the sector, so they know what their expectations and needs, sector by sector, and for urgent measures to ensure their survival. Of course, that dialogue should not be just for that second Cultural Reactivation Plan that we think is necessary, so we propose the creation of a permanent dialogue table with representatives of the world of Greek culture; a table to work, as we said, in the Welsh cultural strategy of the next few years, which feels the foundations and reinforces the pieres already built with great effort by the creators and creators and by the industry of this country; a sectoralized dialogue table. It's work, we know it, but it's essential to do it. At the same time, we also propose an animated campaign for cultural consumption, which gives visibility to the spaces of culture as safe spaces. Seven months already from the pandemic and we haven't seen a single campaign yet. I guess they say he's in writing. Please hurry, there's no time. Cultural containers have been making huge efforts for months to ensure the safety of their activity. We know it, we check it all and everyone we attend to cultural shows; we know what effort they're making. Please dismiss confusing speeches that cause uncertainty in the audience. They standardise protocols, listening to the sector, and set clear and unequivocal criteria, as well as approaches and health security measures for the development of these activities while we have to live with this pandemic. And please coordinate with the agents involved in the development of these activities in concert rooms and similar spaces, in the same way that is being done with other cultural spaces. We must flee from arguments that lead to the criminalization or stigmatization of these spaces, which prove that they are also safe, because they are cultural spaces, indeed, where culture is above leisure. Finally -- and I'm done now -- let's take this opportunity to give you a thought to our country's strategy, we strengthen all the work well done -- that there is -- but we're moving forward in the search for new scenarios, new policies that allow for new proposals and formats, new ways of understanding our culture, which is, of course, much more than a concatenated relationship of events in the Jacobean years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u153	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Varela. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Mercedes Complaints.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u154	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. They must be my first words in this forum of recognition above all, words of greater honour to all women who, by cutting the hum of the times of counterfeiting, have disregarded unfair rules so that today women can, also here, express themselves with our voice; immense gratitude to all the nationalist Welsh women who preceded us in this House in the use of the word with their thought and political action looking for a Galician woman of itself and sovereign. [[Applause]] And gratitude, if I may also be allowed, to the women of my strain, from the longest of my biographical memory, the great Daniela--literated yes, but literate in popular culture, the highest level, which builds our collective -- to the youngest, the little Ita, who will turn the wheel of Greek culture into every new dawn. Because the culture that lives in each of us is that collective, timeless, current voice which is still calling for us and which today convenes us in this plenary session. We name culture as a right of each and every one of us, but also as a multidimensional reality that generates wealth, social cohesion and community. Culture is the most visible expression of what we are as a people and also of how we understand the world, and to a large extent with our own language as a substrate. It is configured as an essential tool for social transformation, also for the strengthening of consciousness and identity; a cultural discourse of ours that generates business tissue, a right of all of us who generates wealth for all of us, a cultural project at the service of a country. In all the permeable and discontinuous dimensions in which Galician culture manifests today, from the most traditional to the experimental, from digital to analogic, from intangible to material, from creative to economic, the Galician Union has the obligation to comply with public policies, active and specific the development of our cultural expressions to meet the competences that are unique to it. And for that it is necessary to highlight at once all the creative potential that we have, projecting from us, from the voices of our creators, a proper look into an open, plural and diverse world: Galicia as a new cell of universality, heir to the Nous Group, of what we are celebrating the centenary. In fact, the Galega Cultural Observatory recorded in 2019 that the total number of workers and workers in culture accounted for 3.5 % of total employment, which gives a good idea of the cultural dimension as a strategy for productive development and employment. However, a year earlier, in 2018, the diagnosis of Greek culture. Data for a cultural strategy in the 21st century, signed by the Galician Council of Culture, recognized among the urgent, priority and necessary lines, the increase in culture budgeting by the Galician Union, transferring that 0.65% at that time in 2018 to 1% in the next four years and reaching 1.5% within ten years. In the words of the Galician Culture Council, this objective would be consistent with the cultural sector's approaches to employment and to Galician GDP. This X-ray of the state of health of the Greek cultural sectors determined, before the pandemic, that "the cuts in public spending in culture are too aggressive for a social area that is of preferential care; even when compared to non-social economic activities, the cuts were greater". And here we are two years later, when culture assumed that role identified by Greek historian Diogenes Laercio as "a refuge in adversity." The effects of the pandemic can now be lethal to a large part of the cultural sector. Because we live times of answers to the emergency, the exceptional, they buy measures according to the current state, but we also need to ask ourselves questions that are geared to the need to start a much more sustainable model change that is unseasonated, dislocated and out of time tags; a time of change and opportunities to finally define another cultural policy. Last July, the Galician Council of Culture — and they understand why we refer to this institution that has been regulated since the Statute — published the Barometer of Greek Culture, an X-ray of the Greek cultural companies since the outbreak of the pandemic. The conclusions of this study are solid arguments that demand our urgent attention, because culture, beyond multiple unquantifiable values in numbers, is also summarized in figures. By quoting some, the pandemic has caused 53.8% of cultural companies to be inactive; in the performing arts sector, 82.4% remain inactive; 38.6% have applied for an ERTE; and 60.7% say they have a billing reduction of more than 50% in the year. Multiple problems must be faced by the cultural sectors, to name a few: cessation or fall of activities and the consequent decline in demand, the problem of cash flow, difficulties in paying taxes and social insurance, the derivatives of supply constraints, legal insecurity, arbitrariness in the application of different protocols, difficulties in meeting the requirements of safety and hygiene measures, etc. Consequently, on the one hand, we have found that the crisis of coward-19 has had a major negative impact on our cultural ecosystem from a situation of enormous weakness, weakness, vulnerability and precariousness; on the other hand, we have found that the professional structures of Galician culture — mostly autonomous, micro-pemes and social cooperatives — are facing a context in which we can no longer talk about the loss of resources and income alone, but rather about the struggle for survival itself; and in these last days we have well seen headlines in this sense. We must therefore become aware of the vitality and also of the specificity of our cultural and creative industries, also of this so forgotten basic culture, of this associationism linked above all with the traditional culture that we already know today that it mobilizes more than 6,000 people in our country. Data contrasting at our work meetings — some of them very recent in recent days — with agents and cultural sectors, who demand from us courageous, imaginative, generous, committed actions and the immense creative potential that builds us and houses in this common house that is culture. In the BNG, we believe in a living, dynamic Welsh culture, with the intention of training staff and transforming society, that stimulates citizen participation, that supports artistic authorial creation, that visibility our cultural production, that dialogue in equality with the cultures of the planet and that acts as an element of dynamization and territorial, social and economic vertebration. Therefore, the reasons for us to demand from this House the declaration of culture as a good of first necessity, always starting from the recognition of culture as a right for all, for all. We have participated and supported the Socialist Parliamentary Group's proposal, but we understand that it was insufficient for this opportunity to restart that path of recovery of dignity for our culture, which has been severely weakened and devalued by the policies of the People's Party for over a decade. And, of course, we can't help but begin this legislation by losing the Council of Culture. That's why we came up with an amendment to add that, of course, we also request the support of this House, because "it is not going from possible to real, but from impossible to true," says the thought of philosopher Maria Zambrano, made beautiful poem by Olga New in Happy Age. This magisterial poem has just been recognized with the National Poetry Prize, awarded by the Ministry of Culture and Sport, of which we are so proud; a happy moment and a renewed happiness today even with the recognition of the poet Alba Cid, of the National Poetry Prize Jupiter Miguel Hernández, also by the Ministry of Culture for his poem Atlas. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] We are confident of the unanimous support of this House with this realization so eager of the renewed hand held to affirm ourselves in respect of and in the defence of the real, possible and true culture for all; from now on forever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Complaints. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Ferro Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u156	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, my words in this Parliament — with your permission — I want you all to have a special memory for the 831 Greeks and Greeks who are not with us because they were victims of this terrible pandemic. All our respect to his memory and all our affection to his relatives. [[Applause]] And I hope that this pandemic that is polluting our villages, our places, our parishes, towns and cities will end as soon as possible and never contaminate our coexistence. There's still a lot to walk, but we must logically recover our daily lives and especially the economic, social and cultural sectors. And that is precisely the subject that we are dealing with today at this point and at this motion. To the German Government, the state government and all other governments — not only the Greek, all the other self-governments, locals, deputies — it has touched on us to manage a moment that the truth is that I don't know how to define it, but what I do know is that it has probably upset and changed all the plans and even the directions of our policies. All governments have worked and are working to reduce and limit the harmful effects of this pandemic. As I said earlier, one of the most affected sectors was precisely the cultural area. That's why the German Government began to work from the very first moment so that the impact on those professionals and those companies would be as small as possible. And it was followed by a number of objectives: firstly, to save cultural employment by encouraging consumption and supporting the activities of professionals and businesses; and to support and design new formats that allowed cultural activity to continue in the new context of health security and maintaining the business and labour structures of the cultural field. You have heard it many times, ladies and gentlemen, but I repeat it to you, Galicia was the first autonomous community in all of Spain that launched a reactivation of the cultural sector; a plan that, as you know, went to the Council on 30 April and was presented and debated in this House on 13 May; that is, it was not one of the mysteries of Fatima, but we could all discuss it and see its general lines and measures. This plan, later on, June 5, expands into budget and has an investment of 26.4 million euros for cultural activities. Logically, here are some activities that will take place within the framework of Xacobeo 2021, but which are strictly cultural and support actions for professionals and cultural industries. By the way, Mrs. Díaz, I don't know how stubborn you are with the Jacobean; I don't say that they criticize him -- of course they don't get to that -- but I don't understand why they say that the measures of our plan shouldn't turn around the Jacobean and that if they do, it's wrong. Well, I'm sorry to tell you, but we don't think it's a mistake. The biggest European cultural event is the Santiago Way, which we have every certain years; it will not be celebrated so often, you know that the next will be in 2027. I don't know what would turn you into a cultural plan when it coincides with the Holy Year, but, well, surely there are many regions not only of Spain but of Europe that would come with a corner of the teeth to have the end of the Santiago Way in their cities. [[Applause]] The Path is still a source of culture transmission. Through the past they have spread and spread the great cultural and artistic movements throughout Europe. It also promotes many and important values: cultural values, cultural democracy, cultural diversity, mutual understanding and intercultural dialogue. In the Middle Ages it was already a spiritual and cultural center of Europe, so in the Greek Government we have made it clear that we are not going to take advantage of one of the greatest cultural threads we have, because for us it is a cultural heritage to which we are not going to give up, especially if we are going to use it to reactivate the cultural sector. In this second edition of the program, your Xacobeo will support more than 220 measures, most of which are cultural actions. Look, let's structure our plan into four axes: we activate the Galician cultural industry by supporting the book industry with 2,300,000 euros, the audiovisual sector with 4 million euros, the stage arts sector with 1,800,000 euros, the plastic arts sector with 585,000 euros and the music sector with 2 million euros. On the other hand, we try to maintain cultural employment in Galicia with an economic boost of 2 million and a half euros. On the third axis, we are working on promoting cultural consumption — you ask for it in your motion — with a campaign of awareness-raising aimed at the whole of Greek society. And in the last and fourth axis, we bet on training, professionalization and improving competitiveness. A system and an online consulting and consulting service has been in place for companies and professionals since May 27, with cultural scholarships for inclusion in libraries, archives, museums, etc., and also a program for the attention of the cultural professionals, the professionals of the cultural institutions. Of course we have a lot to do; we have new challenges ahead that we must meet, new needs, and there are the postponed programmings, the safe culture and the necessary culture. You see we work, gentlemen; we work because we're ruling and because it's our duty and our obligation, logically. And this seems very simple there are times that it's not so much, because they even say that there are governments that don't devote themselves to it and devote themselves to other things and others need it. [[Applause]] We work because we know that culture depends on more than 30,000 families in Galicia; we work because we believe in culture and, above all, in our Greek culture, because it defines our identity and who we are; and we work because we believe that access to culture is an essential right for all Greeks and all Greeks. We believe in our Cultural Reactivation Plan, we are running it without triumphalisms and without propaganda. We were already aware of the complexity of the situation and, as you know, at the end of August-September, and this same month, we continue with this second damn wave of the pandemic. It's a plan, logically, complex and ambitious, but I'm sure it's got some mistakes that we can improve between us all. It is an open document, which we continue to build listening to professionals, because in them, in those professionals, it is precisely centered; it is a plan to maintain employment and productive tissue. The pandemic, ladies and gentlemen, continues to force us to pay attention to the aspects we can improve. So we continue to propose new projects, and we continue to increase budgets. We have to get access to cultural participation as safe as possible for the public, for artists and also for technicians. That is why we are drawing up a contingency and security plan, because we do have a group of health experts and because the German Government does not make political decisions. I mean control of the cultural sector, its outlets and its activity. [[Murmurs.]] I, who come from municipal politics, assure you that I can stand the criticism and that I can fit, but logically they can't ask me to accept them all. I know that everything is better, that no one does all the perfect things, and we also count on their positive contributions, because we believe, really tell them, that they do them in good faith, but the first premise for preaching, do you know what it is? This is the example, for example, that they didn't have in Madrid when the pandemic arrived, that they paralyzed culture and had to make a cultural plan inaccurate and bound by the cultural sector. And what plan, Your Honor, what plan? That plan, I'm sorry to tell you, but it's far below the expectations of the cultural sector. [[Applause]] I'm done. Much remains to be done, without any doubt, but we can be proud of the rapid response of the German Government because it has given importance to culture and demonstrated it with facts, not with large empty declarations of content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u157	Thank you, Mr. Iron. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the motion's author group, Mrs. Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u158	Yes, thank you. The truth is that before I forgot to congratulate Olga New and Alba Cid on these well-deserved awards, which, in addition to that, prestigious our letters and, of course, our creators, who, as Mercedes began, precisely, the creators end up in –a; that's what's interesting, that they now come out more into the light or have more visibility. I must begin by thanking, of course, the support of the BNG and, I don't know, but I understand that there will also be support from the People's Group for this motion, because the speech of Mr. Ferro Iglesias, of course, was proactive, I saw no criticism, and I assume that this will be so. We'll see later on in the votes, but I understand that there will be no problem. I wanted to nuance something, and it's just that we, of course, have no hatred at all for Jacob, none at all. In fact, we understand their projection, and the culture sector also understands it; what we don't want is that Greek cultural policies are all focused on those events that take place over "x" years. It is true that in this decade there will be several, but sometimes not, and eleven years pass and what happens, what do we continue without cultural policy? Then we should aspire to much more. Also, allow me to tell you something, and it is only that Santiago is in Galicia that he is not worthy of Mr. Feijóo. That said... of course, I know, some doubt, but I assure you not, I assure you not, that Santiago was here before Mr Feijóo, of course, arrived at this government. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] We also wanted to explain here that, in fact, the Galician Nationalist Block Group has tabled an amendment, which we have negotiated, and they have accepted. It's all right. The transaction that was accepted was the impulse of a Galician cultural rights law, and then another one to ask the Government of Spain to defend the amendment of the European Directive so that there is a specific and reduced type of cultural VAT for culture, which, of course, we do not oppose. With this motion - and we feel so much - what we were looking for - and, perhaps, we are short, it is likely, I do not say, but there will be more opportunities to do so - it was an intention by the Government of Wales to take advantage of this crisis for a paradigm change, as it said, in our cultural model of the country, that it advances by laying the foundations of its cultural fabric, of industries and of creation, which explores new sustainable cultural models, that it takes into account and supports the autonomy of cultural spaces and democratization of institutions - which is also important - that it trusts in the basic culture, our creators and creators, that gives budgetary stability to the sector, that serves as a maintainer of our traditional culture and that explores new formats and gives rise to experimental proposals that also identify us as a country - these new proposals, that consciously fights against the precarious use of the sector, that would serve as an end to the professionalization of the sector, we would lead to a policy that would lead to a change of initiatives without a culture. We are aware of the worrying moment we are living and the needs that exist in different sectors of our economy, which are going through very difficult times and even unimaginable many of them. But let's not lose sight that culture is one of them, which contributes to our GDP with around 2.5 percent and gives jobs to more than 30,000 people. We also have -- and it's over -- very much present that our culture, like our language, is that which defines us as a people, and it corresponds to us, to the public authorities, not only to be their greatest guarantee, but to be their greatest maintainer and promoter. If so, success will be shared by all and by all, and what is more important besides, will be shared also by our future generations. Thank you for everything.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u159	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u160	Third bell. I'll wait until it's over, out of prudence. We always give three touches and now pick me up a little bit like this, by surprise, because it ended the thing a little earlier. Then we'll wait until it's over. You always have to wait, no problem. Then, yes, we proceed to the vote. We started by voting for the motion of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, the initiative of Ms. Olalla Rodil. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group was accepted. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the impact of the covid-19 on the private residences of older people. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u161	We now vote on the motion from the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, the initiative of Mr Manuel Antonio Lourenzo Sobral. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Manuel Antonio Lourenzo Sobral, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the impact of the covid-19 on education. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u162	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the initiative of Mr Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the problems detected in the implementation of the protocol of adaptation to the context of the covid-19 in the non-university education centres of Galicia for the course 2020-2021.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u163	Something went wrong there, it should be 67, 30, 40. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, but let's repeat that of the previous one, which is the same. So, present in the room... of course, it's the same. [[Laughter]] It's the same thing! [[Murmurs.]] The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes in favour, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u164	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Martín Seco García's initiative. No amendments were tabled. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of D. Martín Seco García, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in connection with forest fires. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u165	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the initiative of Mrs Noa Susana Díaz Varela. He accepts the amendment of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group as an addendum. You've read the transaction here. We voted for it. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Noa Susana Díaz Varela, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in the field of reactivating the cultural sector in the face of the effects of the covid-19. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u166	The motions were put to the end here and we continue with the fourth point of the agenda, proposals not of law. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular, at the initiative of Da María Corina Porro Martínez and thirteen other Members, on the demand of the Galician Government to the Spanish Government for the regulatory changes necessary in the organic legislation on public health in order to be able to act before the pandemic of cover-19 with full guarantees and legal security
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u167	An amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u168	To defend the non-law proposition Mr. Puy has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u169	Good afternoon, ladies. As always when we talk about issues directly related to the pandemic, I want to start moving, once again, as my partner did in the previous intervention, our grief, our affection and maximum in relation to all families of the 831 people who died in the cage, the 363 of them who died in residences, or in integrated residences or hospitals from residences; and I also want to give them our maximum heat and support to the 5,215 infected today, 4,891 of whom are in their homes, 47 in ICUs and 277 hospitalized. We give them our support and all the heat we're capable of. [[Applause]] This morning, in the presence of the councillor at Fairy, we said that the first thing to do in the public domain is to fight against the pandemic and reduce disease and infection, because that is the basis for the recovery of economic and social life. The incidence in Spain of the pandemic has been particularly intense — it has obviated the data — but it is true that the number of deceased, despite the drastic measures taken, do not leave us in the best place as a country; today, for example, we are the fourth country in Europe in cumulative incidence, with 312 cases per 100,000 inhabitants, after Belgium, which has 723; the Netherlands, 486; and France, 406, and even we are from some countries sometimes placed as examples of mismanagement such as, for example, the United States, which has an accumulated incidence of 208, or at the United Kingdom level, with 310. In Spain, the first wave struck with great intensity, and the second wave seems not to go much better. In the first wave, it was possible to reduce the infection by declaring alarm status and confinement. The state of alarm, as we all know, are exceptional standards, and together with the state of alarm are the state of emergency and site, which are characterized by being enormously restrictive of individual freedoms and are planned for short periods and in the face of serious changes in normality. In fact, organic law 4/1981 itself, which regulates them, does not give specific answers to health crises, especially those of long duration such as that of cowardice, and that law itself refers, in its Article 12, to the measures laid down in the rules for the fight against infectious diseases. In short, the law governing the state of alarm does not regulate health actions and, in fact, is subject to its own health rules. The state of alarm was necessary and indispensable at the beginning of the pandemic, but it is also true that soon it was seen that it was unsustainable in time. First of all, by the very essence of states of emergency and the nature of restrictions on freedoms in a democratic system. Everyone who knows a little about the history of constitutions is afraid to remember, when a state of alarm, exception or location is declared, Carl Schmitt's theses about who the sovereign is, which is what can declare the state of emergency, and the consequences that these theories have brought to Europe's recent history. Secondly, because there was certain abuse in their use, which was in no way consensual. It was always introduced to all parties at the end, when it was almost difficult to approve the state of alarm in the last extensions, without prior contact, without prior consensus on its scope, and was also used for some issues that had nothing to do with it. I'm not going to talk about the famous reform of the CNI, but there's one thing that was really important, for example, when it came to royal decree 21/2020 the continuity of the ERTE to the statement of the alarm state itself, which the reality itself has shown was not absolutely necessary and that it was what allowed it to remove that condition, that the ERTEs were kept, even though there had been no state of alarm, which enabled the People's Party to also vote this royal decree without any kind of problem. Thirdly, because it's not compatible with the essence of a decentralized state like ours. In fact, health emergencies are declared by the autonomous communities, however, the measures to be taken because there is a health emergency cannot be taken in accordance with current regulations, unless a state of alarm is declared and adopted by the Central Government. And the proof of this that I just said is that the insatiability of the alarm state in time was seen in successive votes, which began by first approving the alarm state with 321 supports, votes in favor of 350 seats, and ended with fifth to and sixth to very fair, with 177 seats. And precisely for that reason, because it was unsustainable over the course of time, the President of the Council of Galicia already during the third extension of the state of alarm, which ended on May 10, supported, when considering the fourth, giving a margin of action to the Government of Spain to urgently reform health legislation of an organic nature, so that the General Administration of the State and the autonomous communities themselves, if so, had instruments and capacity to effectively combat the epidemic. In fact, after his public appearance on 3 May, after holding a conference of presidents, President Feijóo once again declared that there was a disproportion between the state of unlimited alarm and the country's situation, and requested to replace it by specific actions not as invasive of public rights and freedoms, such as, for example, the Organic Health Act. Within a few days the Government, which argued that the state of alarm was the only instrument that allowed the pandemic to be shortened, but also pressed by some who needed to renew the state of alarm, namely the Basque Nationalist Party and Citizens, declared through the Deputy President of Government Carmen Calvo, in public, in the Senate, and also did so by President Sánchez at the next conference of presidents, who intended to review the health legislation in the Constituted and Established Reconstruction Commission at the Congress. The Congress, for its part, supported on 25 June the Decree on Prevention, Continuation and Coordination to deal with the crisis of the coward, with the Government's explicit commitment to deal with it as a bill to incorporate the essential points of this Commission's ruling on health reconstruction. In fact, the Congressional Reconstruction Commission, at the fifth point, in its fifth recommendation, explicitly says that national and autonomous health legislation needs to be updated by adapting it to the Commission's proposals for Reconstruction and drawing up a timetable for legislative reforms, and in particular these legislative reforms would be to prepare for and deal with a possible resumption of the pandemic of the Covid-19 and any other kind of epidemic or catastrophe. Subsequently, on 31 July, again the President of the Union, at the first conference of presenceal presidents, reiterated the need to modify organic legislation on health matters, and President Sánchez accepted suggestions from the autonomous communities. In fact, the Autonomous Community of Galicia has committed itself to giving a text. August came, the real decree was not dealt with, the reform measures of the health legislation were not incorporated and therefore the problems posed by it were not solved, and the problems arose quickly, first, because the corrections made by ordinary courts caused certain chaos, since, according to the court of guard that touched, it could come out that yes or no action proposed by the autonomous communities was accepted. This led the Government of Spain to propose a reform of the Law on Administrative Dispute Jurisdiction, which entitles the function of reviewing autonomous measures to the higher courts of justice, but last October 8th, just as the Board was forwarding its draft reform of the Health Law and making its proposal public, the Madrid High Court of Justice suspended the rules for that community adapted to the protection of a simple ministerial order, saying in its judgment that rights could not be restricted without legal coverage and that in the Constitution there were sufficient instruments to legislate in organic matters and thus limit those movements that could provide for the pandemic. The proposal of the Union, which has already been referred to the Government of Spain, would restore, if approved, the principle of legality. There is a good basis for Congress to reform the Health Act of 1986 with a catalogue of restrictive measures, control of the sick, treatment, including the obligation to vaccinate once the vaccine exists for the coward-19, with restrictions on movement, meetings of persons, and with guarantees ranging from consultation, hearings to affected parties, the motivation of decisions, the principle of caution, limited temporal vigilance, preference for voluntary collaboration and always opt for the most smooth limitations of freedoms; all this, of course, always protecting the dignity of the sick. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the Union has come to an end, has worked closely with the Government, even sending a text for reform, and we have the feeling that the Central Government has failed, has too late for the adoption of this law. Today the Clinical Committee will adopt new measures. Galicia is not at the worst in the situation of the Spanish ensemble, but the fact is that at any time any autonomous community, including Galicia, may find it difficult to take effective measures for the containment of the pandemic, even some are talking about the curfew, something which, of course, would have to fall into the states of emergency. But, in any case, what we are asking the other groups today is to push and support the adoption of a rule that would guarantee a better fight against the pandemic, because unfortunately -- so I was a little bit exhaustive on the dates -- time came to give the presidency of the Union the reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u170	Thank you, Mr. Puy. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Aranguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u171	Thank you, President. Mr. Puy, you have no obligation to know right, but you came here to speak of right. And I'm forced to remind you of some obvious things that it seems that they have suddenly been lost sight of in recent times by the Galician Union and the People's Party. Legislative initiative is a very serious thing in any rule of law, just as it is very serious in any state of right to the separation of powers, one of which, the legislature, is what it has the competence to approve laws. And the legislative power at the state level is the responsibility of the Parliament of the State; that is where the bills of law are to be dealt with in the Government of the State and the bills of the parliamentary groups. That being so, why don't you take the phone and call Mr. Married to present a bill in Congress or to make it easier for the Government to make the absolute majority necessary to modify any organic law, in your case? [[Applause]] And I say all of this because, obviously in connection with the proposal that the PP brings today to this House, Mr. Feijóo has already announced, as you have said, that he would, on several occasions recently, send the Government of the State a "proposal" - which you call - to reform the health legislation. It is noted that a proposal is not a project or proposal, which is the subspecies of the legislative initiative, but a third genre invented by Mr Feijóo. That is, the leader of Galicia's PP, in his infinite pursuit of protagonistism, omitting the structure of State powers and loading on the way to Montesquieu, Locke and the upper cord, also wants to go to history because he is the first to invent that third genre of legislative initiative, which is not a project or proposal but a proposal, though no lawyer in this country has heard such things and seems to be an unprecedented invention in Western legal culture. The case is that, for example, the ABC or 27 August said: "He will bring Sánchez and Congress his health reform proposal", as the holder. And as a subtitle he says, "The Welsh President will send Moncloa a draft organic law to cut down the pandemic and send the text approved by the Regional House to the Courts." It is not that the ABC at this point cares as little as possible about objectivity — as we all know — but in this case it is limited to reproducing what was said by Junta and Mr Feijóo, who is selling that they will forward a draft of organic law directly, and also through the House. It's that they're making a batiburrillo that is really fake, because they won't send a draft of organic law directly to the Government. We don't really know what they're going to do, but at any rate, you haven't submitted a draft of law, neither organic nor ordinary nor of any kind. What you've referred to could be qualified, being beneficial to you, as a report, but more appropriately you would have to qualify it as nothing, or smoke, or a "nothing-smoking" that you only do is a kind of reflection on what you would have to do, but it's not a project, it's not even a proposition, as I say, that Mr. Feijó has just designed or invented, "a proposal." Because it does not really propose anything concrete, even though it is officially referred to as "organic law proposal". And in that proposal - by calling it the way in which the Council of Galicia calls it - in its paragraph 2 "Requirements for the adoption of measures", it suggests that its adoption is not subject to any specific administrative procedure — almost literally—. I mean, they don't want the measures to be legally authorized and they also say that they can include direct intervention on things, direct compulsion on people and, of course, the limitation of the right to free mobility of citizenship, without judicial authorization, because the reading of the seven leaflets of the text they sent to the Government indicates that this is the only problem you have, the judicial authorization. I mean, they don't like the state of alarm, constitutionally planned mechanism to suspend fundamental rights, but they want to suspend them without legal authorization or alarm status, when it comes to you, which is for note. And it's good to reform laws, but aren't you imposing health measures in Ourense more restrictive than those imposed in Madrid, or just as restrictive, no problem? Are they not being ratified judicially one by one of the measures that you have been imposing on the Greek citizenship, by the way, with the full support and loyalty of the PSdeG, the difference in the disloyal and obstructive attitude of the PP with respect to those which the Government adopts? Are not mobility limitation measures or any other health measures taken anywhere in Spain in the 17 autonomous communities being adopted and ratified repeatedly? The answer is that yes... the answer is that the health measures of the Union, such as those of the rest of the autonomous communities, are being approved and ratified normally, the exception - if they want to make that reference; the same is the exception that confirms the rule - of the case of Madrid, which was due exclusively - to you - to which the Government of Ayuso did not correctly submit its request; of course we want to think that by mistake and without will. [[Murmurs.]] And they are being adopted in the framework of article 3 of the Organic Law on special measures in the field of public health, which literally says that the measures that can be taken are - I say - "those which are deemed necessary in case of risk of a transmissible nature" - - the pet -. "Those who consider themselves necessary," what else do they want? That's right, with legal authorization when it comes to limiting fundamental rights and freedoms; it's a palm and obvious thing. And if that situation deteriorates, for that is the state of alarm, which allows all kinds of measures to be taken without the need for that judicial authorization. What happens is that you don't like the state of alarm and that's why Galician MPs voted irresponsibly on two occasions against the prolongation of the state of alarm. I don't say that it's not better, that it's not desirable to improve legislation -- it's always desirable to improve legislation, and all our purpose in that direction -- and I don't say that it's not better health legislation; any legislation is always better, but they powerfully draw attention to the lines that you propose to do so, and the attitudes that you adopt before the application of that legislation, which basically consists in saying that when the Government decrees an alarm state it's little less than acting like a dictatorship and when it doesn't decree the alarm state it's an irresponsible government. And if the Government imposes, on the delusion of Ayuso, a certain rationality, it is an excess, and if it does not, it is a loss of functions. This is your attitude toward what the Government does, of the applicable legislation. Article 87.2 of the Constitution is very clear, and states that the assemblies, of course, of the autonomous communities, have a certain legislative initiative, and Article 10.1.f of the Galician Autonomy Statute states that it is the function of the Galician Parliament to request the adoption of projects by the Government of Spain, if it so considers. The regulation of this Parliament also lays down how this special administrative procedure can be carried out, in particular in Article 163 thereof. These are the ways in which the Autonomous Community of Galicia has to propose or request that a bill be adopted in the State, not that new formula that Mr Feijóo invented. And the problem with Mr. Feijóo's invention is that he does not practice it in his own house or welcomes what Eugenio d'Ors said, that "the experiments, with gaseous", but puts it into practice through the Government of Galicia and uses for that the Council of the Council of Galicia. The head of the Galician PP wants to go out in the press doing what he does, even if he does nothing, even at the price of doing things that are not contemplated in the legislation and which, therefore, should not do. It's unheard of for an autonomous government to send what he's sent to the state--but it's not a project of anything or a proposal of anything; it's smoke, nothing but smoke--the Government of Galicia to the State Government. It doesn't make any sense that an autonomous government, leaping through the channels that are perfectly regulated in our legal order, seeks to promote something as important as an organic health law that affects the citizenship of the entire state. You call Mr. Casado -- I insist -- there is the seat of the legislative initiative that corresponds to him as a People's Parliamentary Group, in the State Parliament, but they do not intend to do what they are doing, when they are influenced by an autonomous community at the heart of our rule of law, which is the regulation of fundamental rights and public freedoms. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, what you want is in Congress and Senate, do it in Congress and Senate. And if you want to force the machine, send you, through the Galician Parliament, a bill and send it to Congress, but what you are doing is an invitation that every autonomous president says it will be no less than Mr. Feijóo and we have 17 proposals, each more original than Mr. Feijóo is sending, and what happens is a galimacy on a matter that affects the whole state only for Mr. Feijó to take the picture and take out a headline. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] And, therefore, I ask Mr. Feijóo, is Mr. Feijóo a supporter that each of the 17 communities do as he did and submit their proposed legislative amendment? And if the rest of the autonomous communities or the second, what do we do? a television contest to choose the best proposal on a subject that affects the entire citizenship of the state?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u172	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u173	Or does Mr. Feijóo consider that he is smarter than the rest of the presidents of the autonomous communities or that he has some privilege that weighs him more than the rest of the autonomous communities? Do you think Mr. Feijóo is better prepared or more qualified than the state lawyer? Consider Mr Feijóo that the reform of organic legislation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u174	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u175	...—Filled, Mr President—which affects the rights of the entire citizenship of Spain, should perhaps be made to 17 bands? Stop selling us broken motorcycles, stop producing smoke and ink and work for citizenship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u176	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u177	Very good night--this night--all. [[Murmurs.]] The truth is, it's very funny and interesting to see how the People's Party is able to sell smoke for months, see how Fexóo has been acting as a prime time television preacher on the public television of all the Greeks and Greeks, making a commentator of what happened, as if he had no competences or responsibilities, as if the state of alarm had removed them, very well parapeted and hidden behind the single command. And it's still a whole show to see how the equipment is changing, but they keep the script. What it does is because it does it, because it is done by the People's Party, and what it does is responsibility for others and because it has no instruments to do it. That's basically the script. During the alarm state he had the solution for everything, but he couldn't because he was the only command, and after the alarm state he can't because there's no legal certainty. The question is not to assume responsibility. The PP and Fexóo are installed in the constant escape of their responsibilities, while, yes, he puts on the costume of great statesman, which is what he's going to do: do nothing, but go with the suit of great statesman. And it aims to make you believe that the problem of fighting against cowardice is the state organization chart -- that it won't be to the BNG who likes the state chart, or much less -- but it's obvious that Galicia needs more competences -- and I would dare say that she needs all the skills -- to meet and solve the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks. You don't have the slightest doubt that the BNG would enthusiastically applaud and without any repair this initiative of the People's Party if it was a sincere proposal for Galicia to have more competences, but this initiative is not really going to be that, indeed, the People's Party would fall off the road to Damascus and realize that we need sovereignty, that we need the ability to decide on everything that affects Galicia. [[Applause]] This initiative is not about this, it goes on the contrary; it goes on the contrary, it goes from Spain one, and not twenty-one. And I'm done with the tests. He moved, when he was with these proposals, that "we thank the President of the Government for his confidence in us, but there cannot be 17 different laws." Or he also said, "There can be 17 ways to act in Spain." The logical thing is that if we are a Spanish nation -- according to Fexóo -- and especially punished, there are no 17 different answers. And, look, that's where the People's Party and the Socialist Party coincide: the problem is to have 17 proposals. The problem is that Galicia has a proposal, that's the problem with PP and PSOE. [[Applause]] This initiative goes from orchestral maneuvers in the dark, from distractions maneuvers. The sellers of growth and balsam of Fierabrás have always existed, and we are proving how the People's Party is a faithful follower of these grower, of balsam of Fierabrás, because the question is to be there saying what has the most wonderful product; whether it is effective or not is the least, the question is to be selling a fantastic product. Just as it is no coincidence that this initiative and these proposals of the People's Party of Fêxóo take place and bring the debate into line with the declared war between the Community of Madrid and the Spanish Government. Once again the People's Party subjugating Galicia's interests to the interests of the People's Party and the interests of Madrid. Indeed, the People's Party has been on this issue for months. Already in June, and as Mr. Puy has already said, Fexóo asks for changes in health legislation to regulate mobility in case of outbreaks. In July, Fexóo warns you that there are no tools for confining and asking for legal reform -- that was July 7th -- On July 31st, Fexóo asks for instruments to be able to confinate a building, a neighborhood or a municipality, because it seems that he did not have them, and just a few days ago to make this declaration so grandoquent that we need instruments for all of Spain - it does not happen that we have 17 proposals; we need a joint, Spain one - to say that they need instruments to be able to confinate a building, a neighborhood or a municipality, it turns out that he confined much more than a building, a neighborhood or a municipality, he confined all of The Navy without any problem. First he says that and it turns out that he then confined the whole Navy, then he confined neighborhoods to Ourense, and then he went back to confining municipalities and again more municipalities without any problems; the question is to put on that statistic suit. I mean, with one hand he says he has no instruments and with the other he uses the instruments he says he doesn't have and he needs to be unified at the level of the whole Spanish state. In August he followed the same question. We saw in the media, after the Board's advice, that the Board was finalizing a new organic health law; it was an organic health law that would send it to the Government and raise it to Parliament. And I gave him a date, he said that in the first week of September I was going to send that organic health law. In the same note he also said the measures he requested, which he had not to use; he put what measures he was taking in those municipalities and in those neighborhoods, to do that work; that is, he was installed in permanent contradiction. It came in September, and the investment debate arrived and again said that it would send to the central government that organic health law, referred to the Courts' groups, aware that it was very urgent, very, very urgent to process it. It started in June and we're in September, but it was very, very, very urgent to process it. We had to wait another month, and on October 8 we had knowledge of the press -- of course! -- that it would move you, at last, not the organic law that said that you had to transfer, but a proposal, a catalogue of measures to amend the Health Act. What was going to be a new law in June became a catalogue, a proposal in October. Neither did organic law, nor did it bring it to Parliament, nor did it send it to Congress, nor did it transfer it to the other groups of the Congress of Deputies to deal with it. After an announcement of the bomb and the plate of an organic law, he didn't use the regulatory mechanisms, which he could. Of course, at the BNG we defend that from Galicia we can pass laws so that they can be passed through Congress. I'd miss it more if we didn't agree with it! Well, it never ceases to be paradoxical after all this -- it was very urgent -- that he had waited for October, just in the middle of that Madrid-State riferrafe, and it does not cease to be paradoxical that in an initiative registered on 26 August -- this one that brings the People's Party here today -- it is only said that "it urges the Council of Galicia to demand from the Government of Spain that it will take effect as soon as possible." In other words, the People's Party today brings the Galician Parliament to urge the Government of the Union to do something that it has already done, to move that initiative. The truth is it's all very curious. And they'll say it's for the common good. Of course, everything indicates that it is in the strategy of serving the interests of the People's Party, its campaign, of opposing from the Government of Galicia to the Government of Spain and, in passing, a bit of opposition also to the president of its party in Madrid. A little bit of each! And it turns out that after months with the machacona, the idea that organic law reform is essential and urgent because we have to be able to manage the pandemic effectively, the PP brings the debate to this initiative; an initiative that calls for something that has already done the Government of the Union. [[Applause]] PP is talking about the need to have tools to fight effectively against the pandemic, when it doesn't use the instruments it has, because those that say it's necessary didn't need to use them. What if you need to use is, for example, that the main tool to fight the pandemic is a strong health system, with sufficient staff and decent working conditions. All experts agree that in the fight against cowardice having primary care is fundamental, and early detection of positives and identifying them and isolating them. What prevents the People's Party, the Government of the Union, from using the instruments it has to fight against the pandemic in Galicia? He doesn't want to use them! He's not using them because he's spent 11 years dismantling the public health system, and now he wants to come and tell us that the problem of advancing the pandemic in Galicia are those tools that he didn't need to use. But of those who do need — which is a strong public health and which we do not have because of the People's Party — there, nothing at all, we don't talk about that. Also the correct and effective fight against the pandemic is to have an efficient, effective tracking system, to do these tracks in time and form; and today we go on without knowing what the tracking system is in Galicia, we go on without knowing who does, as it does, how many do... Oh, but those instruments are not the People's Party's concern, because those are the ones that would have to be using decisively and are not using them. There is no doubt that in Galicia we continue to lead the territory of the state where there are more positive people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u178	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u179	...that you don't know what their origin is. And why? Because there's no system of agile tracking or well-equipped, but there the People's Party doesn't want to know. And also that it prevents the People's Party from intervening in senior residences? What prevents you from doing your job so that older residences are not the zero area of infection and unfortunately of death? Because it's very well, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, who come here to associate themselves with people who have died infected — and we do so — and BNG, but it would be much better if they were to take care of measures not to get infected and not to die, as was the case with older residences... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u180	Thank you. Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u181	...and they're not doing it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u182	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u183	So...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u184	Your time is up. Thank you. [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Thank you. [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much. Time's up. [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] Thank you, Mrs. Prado. It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u185	While they're cleaning up, I remind them we're following the vaccinations, so that they won't be vaccinated. I mean, the Medical Service is still open to vaccinate those who haven't been vaccinated yet. [[Murmurs.]] It's a recommendation that I will insist on for your own and all of you. [[Murmurs.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u186	I have to admit that I am a little surprised by a debate where Mrs Prado concludes that Mr. Arunguena and I agreed and agreed on everything. I don't know very well. [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] Mr Prado, this debate is not about competence, it is about something that is even more profound than the question of competence. This debate is about guaranteeing two fundamental rights of people: the right to public health and the basic rights guaranteed by the Spanish Constitution to all Greeks and to all other Spaniards. This debate is fundamental because what would you say if suddenly an administration without any legal backing had removed its rights? Well, that's what's happening because there's a pandemic. The judges are speaking. Some say that you can intervene in this way and others that you can't, that this breach is so strong that you need to apply the alarm state. And what the courts are telling us is that it takes organic regulation to be able to tighten up, in justified cases like those of the pandemic, the rights of citizens; therefore, it's even something much more important because it goes to the very core, at the heart of democracy. Because when it was election time -- where we were loyally supported by both opposition groups for the call, when it was celebrated -- we were talking about the pandemic not incompatible with democracy. Anyway, I think Mr. Arunguena deserves a little more attention. He questioned my knowledge in law. I don't assume knowledge in law, but as a right-wing doctor, I do know something right-hand. So let me tell you something from a legal point of view. [[Laughter]] The source of this proposal is because Mr Sánchez, President of the Government, in an inter-executive cooperation body, asks the autonomous communities for suggestions. [[Applause]] Mr. Feijóo offered him one and Mr. Sánchez told him to send her. So if you send it to the Government, it's because your president asks for it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And the president of the Union is in the best spirit of cooperation. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Second, as you know perfectly well, of course it legislates Congress, but who has the legislative initiative? No, no, sorry... Hey, this is more serious... this isn't even for a licenser. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Laughter]] No, no, the legislative initiative... the legislative capacity has the House, but the legislative initiative in Galicia has the Government; in Spain it has the Government; in Galicia it also has citizenship with the law of popular legislative initiative, and more people. [[Mr. Arangüena Fernández pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Therefore, the Government's legislative initiative — which I know — exists in the separation of powers from Montesquieu, to which you referred. So what's wrong with the President of the Government of Spain asking the President of Galicia for a rule and sending it to the Government of Spain to make a legislative initiative? And you also voted that it was necessary! [[Murmurs.]] "Carmen Calvo already has a plan B, reform the law to stop resorting to the state of alarm." With regard to health law reforms, says Pedro Sánchez - he literally -: "What we will do" - but never done - "sisters, it is planned; what we will do, ladies and gentlemen, is start to analyze and discuss with all of you and negotiate the modification of various laws to ensure proper governance, once we have lifted the alarm state" - 20 May in Congress two Members -. And you voted on recommendation 5 of the dictation. If you'll excuse me, this juridical baturillo that you've told me is even more perplexing, because you already know what the amendments are. The amendments are of addition, they are of substitution... when you present an addition amendment, you accept the text proposed by the proposer. And you give me an amendment to add, that is, you accept my text; therefore, you are willing to vote on my text — because you accept the text that I propose without any modification or allusion to Montesquieu — and yet you come here and tell us... well, all that you have said, that I am unable to sum up, frankly. [[Laughter]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] But what if we didn't know about the People's Group what the role of the legislature is and what is the role of the executive, what does Mr. Aranguena suggest to us? — what he did not refer to in his speech—: "The Parliament of Galicia urges the Government of Galicia to sue the People's Party......that to achieve the absolute majority necessary to bring forward any reform of the organic law..." Anyone present to us...? [[Laughter]] That is to say, the separation of powers and the exquisite neutrality we are praying for is that this Parliament is addressed to the Government of the Union, which is commanding a law in the field of cooperation between governments and the Government of Spain at its request, and that is that we address the People's Party. [[Laughter]] Magnificent! [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] There is also a second paragraph, which says, "to urge the German Government to demand from the People's Party a loyal and collaborative attitude with the Government of Spain." This doesn't have to be because you already have it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2020-10-20-DSPG009.u187	Thank you, Mr. Puy. The amendment, don't you accept the amendment? [[Mr. Puy Fraga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, no, no, no. Well... [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] We'll hold the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning. Good night.
