ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u1	348. Increase in salaries of social services workers I ask that the plaintiff of this point, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u2	Good afternoon, thank you for your word. First of all, I want to thank most of the Chamber of Deputies, which has allowed this really important point to be discussed, and at the same time, even if the material is not signed, it is probably the material from the MPSV, the two pages in the benches. Mr. Chairman, do you happen to know who let us distribute the material? But I assume from the diction that this is the material of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, I think it is a good thing that there are some facts that can serve as a basis for the debate and then for the resolution that I will definitely propose in the context of a detailed debate on this point. I'm not gonna read the same thing I said this morning. I'll try to sum it up. The situation in the field of social services is critical because of the lack of workers. These workers have an extremely difficult and demanding profession, which is extremely poorly paid. Of course, at a time when unemployment is so low in the Czech Republic, these people also have a better chance of finding employment outside the area of social services, and this is quite happening. Long-term workers are missing, and in recent weeks and months, as I have announced, the Social Services Association has also investigated, the situation has deteriorated dramatically and many have changed their jobs in these weeks and months. It is a problem especially for the equipment I listed in the morning, devices that provide continuous care every day 24 hours a day. We were given material probably by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which does not answer the classic question I asked, by how much, not in percentage, how much money will be increased salaries. We got the material - I don't see the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs here, so I don't know if anyone's gonna defend the material - three options of the solution. The first option refers to 5% for direct care workers, 9,4% for technical and economic workers. The second option is about 12.6% and the third by 23 percent. Let's try - in fact, the material says: the only thing MPSV is able to arrange is variant number 1. Try counting on me, I'll count on the spot now. If we say the average wage is-- we know it's less than 20,000, but for that calculation, let's say 20,000. If we say it's an average of 5%, it's an average of CZK 1,000, which for those who are awarded and are in lower working classes, it means that today I have consulted some of the directors of these facilities, which is 700 CZK 800 a month. For some it does a little bit more. The amount is just small. The amount is small, because if you have $20,700 out of $20,000, it's far from what we all need, because none of us know when the services will be needed either by him personally or by someone in his family or by any of his coworkers. That's the truth. Excuses and misrepresentation of responsibility that the MPSV would want to do it for finance and finance, and you say "you have your own resources," and here the Ministry writes, "but by law, we can't use it"... Then there's -- that's why I said it was an MPSV -- then there's a comment about what the outgoing finance minister said. Now he wants to raise it, but only since November, which is after the election, and at the same time, the MPSV here writes "we don't have the money for it, let's put the money from the government debt service chapter on it." I would like the Chamber of Deputies today to ask the government - no other competence - to raise the salaries by an average of CZK 3,000 on 1 July. And it's up to the government whether it's from the budget reserve chapter or the Treasury will find it somewhere, or it'll be from the MPSV. But what's interesting about the letter, and I'll turn your attention to it. It says here that the Labour Office, which belongs to the Ministry of MPSV, has unused claims from the previous years of CZK 4.5 billion and that it wants to use them - wait a minute, I have to find it - for active employment policy, social support benefits, etc. We have the lowest unemployment, we don't have the workforce, in everyone's experience, both employers and honest workers from the Labor Office, we know that many of those who are unemployed don't really want to work and won't - and we're saying that we have 4.5 billion. Spend this year on active employment policy! Who will the programs be for when everyone who wants to work is already working? And anyone who can work. There are people who can't work, but that's a different case. Then who will it be for? Words from our press conference today are confirmed. Look at what the Secretary of State wants to use up the demands of his office from previous years. Agenda IT systems. And do you know that there are two systems in place? The old ones and the new ones. And then it's logical that the expenditure on IT systems is increasing. We have heard a lot of words from the Minister during this parliamentary term on how to compete and make IT operations and IT systems cheaper on MPSV. Reality is completely different. We have black and white here today, even though the document isn't dated or signed, so he says we need money for agenda IT systems. Of the 574 million we have a reserve, 374 on IT systems. And only 200 million is proposed to be used to finance social services. I think that's enough to get into the discussion. Maybe it's logical. All the political parties are planning their campaigns, we're done with the program, some are just writing it or working it. And those employees in social services are 50,000. The result of the demands of the profession, apparently not as well organized as employees in other professions. Maybe that's why their voice isn't as good to hear as it should be. I would like to ask in advance that this resolution, which will be asked by the government - we cannot instruct it - to find the money as early as July 1st, at least three billion, at least three thousand on average for everyone, to find it, so that the Chamber of Deputies will support it, as far as possible, across the political spectrum, so that it is not a pure policy, so that we do not ask ourselves who is responsible. It almost doesn't matter who's to blame. I could talk here about what's been going on, or rather, haven't been in this area in years. But let's look for a solution today. Let's not look for culprits. When we find a solution, we find the money, raise the salaries, then we can get back to the debate on who did this. That's much better and more productive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u3	Thank you, Mr. plaintiff. I am opening a general debate in which I have a number of applications. I will just point out to Mrs Semelová that a factual point can only be taken into account in the course of the debate, so at first there must be at least one contribution to the debate, and then, of course, I will give you the opportunity to speak. With priority rights, Mr Kučera. And only to Mr Stanjur. I didn't agree to hand out the document that's on the bench, so I have no idea who the author is, and I want to promise you that I gave you instructions to find out how it was. Mr Kučera, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u4	Hello, thank you for your word. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like to address this point here, not from the position of a social service worker or an expert on social services, virtually. to provide them, but from a position, let's say management, respectively. from the position of founder, which establishes part of these services in self-government, respectively. participate in their financing. Of course, I see a whole range of perfectly qualified and competent people coming after me to express their views on how to provide services, social services, how to provide social services, quality or poor quality, etc. I would very much like to focus only on the financing and coordination as such. First of all, I would like to say one quite crucial thing. When I meet with the director of contributory organizations or people who are responsible for the operation of social services, many of them tell me that there is quite a lot of money in social services. This is quite essential information. They admit there's enough money, but unfortunately, it doesn't end where they're supposed to end up. This means that the actual performance, that money ends up on the salary of providers or caregivers, or directly on those to whom social services are intended as such. [[16.50 hours]] The question is, should we not talk about how to improve the system today rather than discuss how to pour more money into it that we are not sure where it will end up? Although, of course, I understand that we're only talking about salary as such. However, I would really like to call for the system as such to be simpler. Please, let us see how complicated funding is. Wherever the money flows to the retirement home, which establishes the city, its founder is the city, or the care service, which is also the founder of which is the city or self-government. They flow from the city budget, they flow from the regional budget, they flow from the state budget, there are some grants, there are some subsidies, and the funding itself is very complicated. Now it has become even more complicated because the money from the state flows through the regions and we, for example, if I speak specifically for our city, so last year we didn't get funding for those services that were to be funded by law and had to be bailed out of both the city budget and the regional budget, because the state money ended in God knows where. Or if they touched the edge at all, I didn't study it. So this funding is quite complicated, and I'm afraid it's those who are at the very end of the financial chain, the funding chain, and these are the nurses, the caregivers, the caregivers, the caregivers who should have a raise as such. So if there is anything I would like to call for today, I really urge that the system of financing social services be simplified, because I consider it absolutely essential. Please, let us simplify the system of financing social services, focus on making money flow where it is supposed to go, and it does not end where it shouldn't end. This is the first and fundamental point I would like to say here. The next item is, please, coordination of the provision of social services. As I said before, the founders of social services can, of course, be a number of, whether it be a country, whether it be a city, they can, of course, be companies that are nonprofit or private. The funding then takes place in different ways. However, their coordination - the coordination of which, of course, takes place in some community planning, which is provided mostly by self-government or the region, and there is only the existence of those social service providers. Of course, you can point out that some service is missing, or some service is redundant, or doubles, but there is not much to worry about right now... or from the position of executive it is not exactly funding itself. Somewhere, community planning works fine. I think maybe we're putting a little emphasis on this in the city, somewhere it works a little bit worse. This is, of course, always due to the approach of the individual articles that make up the community planning and their approach. Whether to do so only in such a way that they meet the mark, or to actually serve as a useful tool for both social service providers and, of course, for those social service recipients who, of course, should be the aim of providing social services. I mean, if we don't solve this second condition, that is. the fact that social services will not be doubled, or even tripled, whether the same social service will not be provided by an urban organisation, a regional organisation or a non-profit society, which is often happening, so what happens today will happen again, that money will not end again at that final point, i.e. the beneficiary, the recipient of the social services, i.e. who needs that service, who needs care, who needs to be taken care of. It will end up fragmented between several different providers and will not be spent effectively. That means, here's the second point I point out, and that's that money doesn't really always end where it ends. Thirdly, I would like to mention one thing that I am often referred to, because, of course, as a municipal authority, as founders, we have certain instruments by which we can determine the level of salaries, virtually. at least their moving parts just for employees of urban organizations. And we are drawn to this, and of course our efforts were that we should make the lowest wages, which I clearly agree with them, that they are really very low, to the extremely low, and sometimes they are really, I dare say, even undignified, so we are pointed out that if we keep increasing this ceiling, we will soon come across the fact that these unqualified, because, of course, the lowest levels are achieved by the unqualified, especially the unqualified caregivers, that we will run into the second ceiling, and these are qualified nurses. This means that if we increase - and rightly, I agree with it, I strongly support it - if we increase salaries for unqualified caregivers and caregivers in social services, they will soon come close to the level of wages for qualified nurses. And of course, there has to be a second part, because I think we can agree that it has to be diversified, that there must be some difference between unqualified and qualified labour, i.e. Then we have to talk about the fact that the wages of those nurses must also be increased. Of course, I don't have a problem with it, just please, I'm saying this here so that we realize that the moment we start raising the lowest wages - and I repeat, I agree with it and I support it - so other levels must be increased simultaneously, i.e. the skilled workers. That means, in one word, when I say this, it's not enough just to increase wages at the lowest levels of salary. Let's be very aware of that before we start adding a populist to those or those here. When I sum up this way, I say, clearly I'm in favour of getting the lowest grades added, I call for us to do it systemically and not one-timely, and to remove the holes in the system that I've pointed out here. I pointed out that the social system itself shows quite a lot of finance, but the finances are often not hidden where they are. And often, services are doubled, if not tripled, and I call on that social network to be simplified, more efficient and to serve what it has to do, i.e. to provide care to the needy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now Mrs Semelová has the floor with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, I would just like to make a brief statement on this issue. We, of course, supported the discussion of this point, because we consider it serious and have repeatedly expressed ourselves in the past about the fact that the financing of social services is in a very critical situation. That is why I am glad that we have been doing this for the second time in the last few weeks, the last time was on the proposal of colleague Hnyková. Of course, here we are going to repeat what we are also hearing when we discuss the budget, i.e. that social services are very underfunded, that they are in a critical situation, both nurses and carers in direct service are in very bad shape and leave and have no one to replace them. I'm just concerned about the touching concerns of the ODS and the TOP 09. To tell you the truth, in the past years' experience, when we wanted to deal with it, never the ODS, never the TOP 09 were willing to do it. [[17,00 hours]] Under Minister Drábek, what could be cut, ran away money for cards and so forth, whether it was thanks to him or thanks to Deputy Minister Šišek. And at this point, we're not supposed to be looking for culprits. But that's where the origin of what's happening right now was. We have repeatedly proposed in the state budget to raise money for social services, you never raised your hand for it. I just hope that if you get to the House after October 2017, you will finally raise your hand in the budget for raising money for social services, both the ODS and the TOP 09. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u7	Mr Soukup and then Mrs Aulická. All factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, indisputably, social services salaries are very low, I'd say ugly. However, it is also true that the situation and funding in social services need to be addressed in a systemic and comprehensive manner. I would like to address Mr Kučera - through you, Mr President. I don't think social services are doubled to tripled. I don't think social services in some segments are getting. But I'm going back to the original, the reserves I see. Perhaps one of the biggest problems was unfortunate, in my opinion, the decision that the care allowance actually goes to the client and not to the organization, as it was before. You know, in that area called. Informal care is being lost by huge resources. The original intention was the one - and it was probably a good intention, but it was not a practice - was that the client would actually buy the services himself at his own discretion. But it turned out that huge funds are disappearing in our family budgets. That's one problem. As a result, our so-called "survivor" is constantly increasing. subsidies. In theory, they might not actually be at all when implementing this system. But today, according to the chart we got, they're about 10 billion. per year. From the state. This is one such stimulus to what we should be dealing with in parallel with adding money to social services workers. There's another problem like that, I've been comparing - [[Attention on time.]] I've been comparing normalities or performances in these...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u9	Time! You only have two minutes to make a point. If you wish to speak, please sign up for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u10	Two more sentences.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u11	I'm afraid time is good for everyone, Mr. Colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u12	So I'm gonna sign up with another incentive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u13	Thank you. Please, Mrs Aulická, then Mrs Šánová, all factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wanted to speak first in the classic debate, but after the performance of my colleague Kučera I really had to give the factual one. Well, it is a bit of a wonder that this point was raised by the right-wing opposition, namely the ODS, Mr Stanjura. And I must say that I see the paradox precisely in the fact that in the past, the ODS under government has actually gotten funding for social services to the lowest possible historical minimum. But we are pleased that perhaps even the right-wing opposition has understood that there is a need, perhaps now the existential need to raise salaries as quickly as possible and, of course, finances in social services. Now, let me make a note of my colleague Kučera through the President. Well, that's just because you may not know how social services are financed, and that's why no one can get 100%, or no one gets 100 percent of the right. And we know that the Ústí Region claimed about 1.6 billion. for this year and he got roughly one billion. That means, of course, the funding isn't there. That means it's not just about you. And, of course, you may know that there is a need for a share of other funding of about eight percent, which means whether it's over the county or other sources. But I beg you, I really beg you to say that through the funds that have been put on social services through the Ústí Region, we have run out, or you can question that they have gone somewhere else. You really, really said it like that, and no one really dares. And I don't think, as an MP for the Ústí Region, you should really be able to afford this. Through the President, of course. And perhaps it would also be good if you visited the leadership of our Ústí Region, where you were invited several times and, unfortunately, you never came. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u15	Mrs Šánová and then Mr Kučera, still factual remarks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u16	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to get back to the fact that we're looking for money to raise employees' salaries. We're not supposed to talk about anything else here. You all got workers' salaries on the bench, it's probably from the MPSV. If I took the middle option, 12,6 percent increase, 580 million. 200 million is able to give an MPSV. So that leaves it as it says, 380 million. Imagine that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has almost a billion uninvested in investment. Every year, about half a billion investment is spent on investment. Unused claims of billions are constantly pushed by the Ministry. In 2016, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs used around 18 million to invest from unused claims. It goes on to say that unused claims can only be taken from the organizational component in which they were declared. It's not exactly true. If the Department of Labour and Social Affairs submits a request to the government to transfer these funds elsewhere, they can be transferred. So if there's a billion, have them submit a request to the government that they need them to finance their salaries, and they'll have them. And please, let's talk about where to get the money, not what social services do and where the money ends. This debate will then be held until midnight. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u17	Thank you. Mr Kučera and then Mrs Adamová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u18	Thank you for the floor. I would only briefly respond to my previous speaker, Mrs Aulická. Madam Aulická, through Mr President, I am very sorry for your comments. I would like to say that in the second term, I am chairman of the financial committee of the city, which manages without debts. And I can tell you that I know very well how to finance social services in our city. And the fact that I said that the money didn't touch the city for social services, I'm talking specifically about the retirement home in Louny, they didn't even touch the county. It wasn't a complaint against the Ústí Region. They didn't touch the edge. On the contrary, I have, and we have also said this, at our council we have thanked the Ústí Region, virtually. To the Vice-Chief, who is also our deputy, thank you for being able to finance these services from his sources. Because the services were funded from both our city budget and the county budget. And the money just didn't get the Ústí Region out of the state budget. That means, we don't know where they went, although the Treasury Secretary Andrej Babiš promised them, and I don't know where they ended up. That's what it sounded like. If you've explained that they've been mistreated by the Ústí Region, I certainly don't think so. They were mistreated by the Finance Minister Andrej Babiš. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u19	Mrs Pekarová Adamová. Then Mr. Běhounek, all factual remarks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u20	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond to Mr Soukup, Mr Member through the President, on the care allowance. When you said that the intention was actually so that people would then buy the services themselves - but he was also like that, and I think it is right that a number of people are being cared for in their immediate home environment, i.e. within the family environment, within the really family circle. And I think it really should be supported. From this point of view, I would see it so that the setting of the care allowance, as it is today, although it is not perfect in all aspects, so it also has this dimension here, and we should not miss it at all, because really these families often do really very good work. Of course, the ideal combination is when a family can take care of and, at the same time, take advantage of the relief services of social services and it's some kind of combination that might be quite ideal. It doesn't always work like this, but we can't take the care allowance that clearly, unilaterally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u21	Thank you. Now, Mr Běhounek, then Mr Gabal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u22	Mr President, fellow Members, I beg you, let us talk about whether we need to put workers in social services for wages. Your pins are 100%, but we won't have a moment if we shut down all these social services because these people are running away from us. It's a tax on the fact that they're booming and get more money in any activity other than social services. We're not gonna have time to talk about how to reconstruct it. If we don't get the money, it's gonna be a disaster. It is a promise from the government, when the authorities discussed this issue in January, that it will be dealt with. So if there's a will on the side of the next meeting, on Monday's RHSD, it's supposed to be at the point, I hope it works. Please, let us discuss this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u23	Thank you. Mr. Gabal. I will also read Mr Adam's apology, which apologizes from 16.30 for health reasons, and Mrs Balaštíková from 18 o'clock for work reasons. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u24	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I pointed out here during the last debate that since 2006, the entire social services sector has developed into a completely separate sector of the economy, which needs to be financed, analysed and viewed as multi-layered - from what has been said about family, through municipalities, regions and the state. The participation is crucial. I agree that it needs to be financed by what the Governor said here, but at the same time, it needs to be known that it works as a social function. It's not just about the money. That's got to be the money. But the participation is just insanely important. So I agree that we need to put the funds there and see how, after ten years, the sector has evolved and what awaits it in the future, taking into account demographic developments. Because the dynamic is going to be far, far bigger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u25	Thank you. That was the last point of fact. Please, Mrs Hnyková, who is duly registered, and Mr Seďa will be prepared. I will apologize to Mrs Golasowská, who apologizes from 5:30 to the end of the hearing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u26	Thank you for the floor. I don't even know what I'd start with sooner. But perhaps I would remind you all of the resolutions we adopted on 26 April 2017. And I was very glad that we adopted this resolution here, that the Chamber of Deputies and all of us, as we are here, realized that there is a need to do something about the situation in social services, because the lack of staff that is currently there as a result of a poor salary assessment has really gotten into a crisis situation. A month passed, today is May 24th, and what happened? The Ministry of Finance is arguing with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, or the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is arguing with the Ministry of Finance about where they will take the funds, and those social services workers are waiting for that decision. I'm asking you, you guys who have been here longer on business, how can we actually force the government to find the funds to raise those people's salaries? He sits here - I don't know if he's already been appointed Prime Minister, the Minister - he hasn't yet. [[to Minister Brabco, who answers that he was not]] Well, there's no one else here. Madam Secretary apologized because what would she care about social services workers? Maybe I appreciate the Minister of Education over there, who isn't here either, but at least she's fighting for those teachers. But Madam Secretary of Labour and Social Affairs... Did you ever hear her say she'd lose her word for social services workers? That she'd take a budget initiative, that we need the money? I didn't hear her. I will remind you of the resolution: The Chamber of Deputies asks the government to 1. address the critical personnel situation in social services without delay; 2. discuss a significant increase in the salaries and wages of employees directly caring for clients and social workers; 3. 564/2006 Coll., on the salary ratio of employees in public services and administration, as amended, which will be adjusted, inter alia, by the salaries of employees in social services. For staff stabilization it is necessary to delete the current Annex 1 and 2 of the Government Regulation. The staff member listed in Annex No 1 shall be placed in Annex No 3 and the staff member listed in Annex No 2 shall be included in Annex No 3, i.e. in the medical table; 4. allocate and provide sufficient funding from the State budget to increase the salaries of employees in social services; 5. launches a process of systemic change in the financing of social services. Perhaps this resolution has one mistake, that there is no date for the government to do so. Staff, when they learned that we were all, as we were here, by an absolute majority adopted this resolution, were happy and the feedback was very good. I don't take any credit for raising this subject here. But I have repeatedly pointed out here since the beginning of my mandate that the situation in social services is not good. And I would very much like to speak with Mr. Speaker or Mr. Stanjura through Mr. President, who said that there was enough money, because I am seeing the opposite... [[Member Stanjura, sitting at the news table, objecting off the microphone.]] Excuse me. That is what Mr Kučera said, through Mr President. I'm sorry, you guys performed right behind you... Where's the money in social services? When I am speaking in my region - and I am very glad that the Minister will be running in the Liberec Region so that we can discuss with her what the situation in these social services is that, in fact, at present, the funds are to ensure traffic and further increases. If there was enough money, the social workers could increase their personal value, they could increase their rewards. But if there's any money left, it's twice a year for a reward. I'm so sorry. And I keep asking people who have been here for a really long time, how we're gonna get the government to find the money. Because when I ask the Treasury employees, they tell me they have the money. At the Department of Labour and Social Affairs, as we learn from the press release today, there's only $200 million there. I think that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs through the Minister should do everything possible to make sure that this area is so highly underfunded that it can find these funds there! And I believe that all of us would support it if the Ministry of Finance somehow opposed it, because we know that the situation is critical and it threatens the quality and care of seniors and disabled people. [[17.20 hours]] I'm not gonna talk about work, because we've already heard here today that when unqualified work gets up, qualified jobs have to get up. Please, this is a misinterpretation of the concept and actually the work in the direct care. Those workers need to make a proper course. It must be further educated. So their work isn't unqualified. This is qualified work in direct care of seniors and disabled persons. Please, we can talk about unqualified work when the person in the field is not educated when he has no training to do so. But these workers are going through vocational education and further education. He must have skills, ability to communicate with clients. And believe me, sometimes it's not easy when a person comes to you after a brain episode that doesn't talk, just gestures show what's good and bad for him. Yet this work has always been pushed to the edge, and now that we see that there is a shortage of employees, we are all trying to do our utmost to improve the situation. I am very glad that this topic has been raised again. I don't know what means to use, maybe to replace some government officials with money, or I don't know what to do about it when the resolution we adopted here a month ago doesn't respect the government and doesn't solve the situation within a month. Only through Mr President to President Kučera. Social services are funded by the Social Services Act on a multi-source basis. I am perhaps sometimes glad that there is multi-source funding for social services, because if there is only one source, I am concerned that it would look much worse in this situation with social services. The Social Services Act clearly states that medium-term plans are being made on the margins in the provision of social services, which means that providers who are in this network are entitled to compensation, or subsidy, which we knew in the past. I would also like to return to the care allowance for my colleague Soukupa, who said here that it should belong to the organization. If the client arrives, or the user of the service, to the residence service, by law this allowance for care belongs to the residence facility. I agree with my colleague Pekarová, there is a need to promote domestic care, because demographic development will, of course, be increasing. We, as we're all sitting here, maybe one day we'll be happy to have a care allowance so high that we can pay for field assistance and care services. I just wanted to remind you of what we adopted here a month ago. I insist on that resolution. I would very much like this resolution to be supplemented by a date and we have added it to the government by this date, and from 1 July 2017 employees have been reassigned from the first and second tables to the third salary table and from the third salary table, i.e. direct care workers who carry out direct care and care, have been reassigned to health professionals, and there are also social workers on whom higher education is currently being placed - they must have a higher education and do so for very poor money. Please, I would very much like this resolution to be extended by these two points in order to put the funds there, and we have put a date there. I would have imagined if it had been before 1 June this year to increase employees from 1 July 2017. I thank you for all the social services workers. And believe me, I tried that job on my own. Twenty-seven years I've worked there, I know what it takes, and I'd like us not to talk about anything but getting the money there, and the workers getting the money raised in their salaries. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u27	Thank you, Mrs Hnyková. Another party to the general debate is Mr Antonín Seďa. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u28	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, honourable Members, it is difficult to speak after the priority speeches and after the technical comments. However, I do not know how often right-wing colleagues visit homes for seniors and other social services and discuss with employees or, rather, employees about their wages and working conditions. I admit that I have been discussing these problems very often, and I must also admit that I am not surprised by the Czech Health and Social Welfare Union, which calls on the Government to take all the necessary steps without delay to increase the salaries, wages and wages of employees in social services. At the same time, the trade union reminds that low wages lead to a shortage of workers, which has already been said here, and yet there is nowhere to move clients, care for them cannot be postponed. And the staff's missing hands can't be replaced by anything, we all know that here, which is why we've gathered to this point. This has already been done, but I will repeat what the Department of Health and Social Welfare of the Czech Republic requires. Firstly, the abolition of the lowest two tariff tables, on which there has been political agreement for several months, and at the same time the relocation of workers in social services and social workers into the scale of pay rates to health workers. In doing so, it draws attention to the fact that this transfer will only correct historical errors, when health workers were initially transferred to direct care workers in social services facilities, thereby reducing their pay grade by 17 percent. Two. The Trade Union requires the granting of the upcoming exchange surcharge to be provided in hospitals to non-medical health workers working in the exchange regime as well as to workers working in the exchange operation in social services. I support these legitimate requirements. Ladies and gentlemen, but to be objective, it has already fallen, we have received information from the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the stand, which has presented us with information relating to the subject under discussion. Let me sum it up very briefly, I don't want to quote it here. Between 2014 and 2016, social services salaries increased by 16.5%. As of 1 July, Government Decree No. 564/2006 Coll., on the salary ratio of employees in public services and administration, and this amendment is intended to finance social services. In order to do this, it is essential that the government, as a matter of fact, the finance minister, secures the missing funds. An increase of up to 23 % has been considered in three variants since the salary increase of 5.1 %. And if the Department of Labour and Social Affairs releases 200 million from its budget chapter. CZK, as stated in the attached material, then the requirement for financing from the chapter, apparently the state debt, is from 229 million for the given variants. CZK up to 962 million. Crowns. This shows that the whole government, in particular the Ministry of Finance, must address the issue of raising salaries in social services. In conclusion, just to complete the information and in the light of criticism from the right-wing opposition, I am communicating the following. If total social services expenditure ranged from 6.22 billion in the right-wing government between 2009 and 2013. CZK to 7.04 billion. CZK, then these expenses increased during this government from CZK 7.71 billion. CZK in 2014 to the current 9.27 billion. So that's basic information that's in the attached material. I, as the appellant said, will certainly support the adoption of the resolution and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u29	Thank you, Mr Seďa. Another duly signed up for the general debate is Mrs Jitka Chalánková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u30	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have spoken on this point and on similar points for several times, so I will be relatively quicker. I have also been involved in the debate with Mrs Hnyková, who has already made a motion for a resolution that has been approved here last time. [[17.30 hours]] I would like to bring some other views that have not been discussed so much. It is certainly important to set up a conceptual change in the financing of social services. Only this can bring an improvement in the appreciation of workers' work both in direct care and in health care workers in social services facilities. It is also important to suspend directly above the Social Services Act, i.e. above Act No. 108, which has been effective since 1 January 2007. The amendment, which has now joined the Chamber of Deputies, does not deal so much with the financing of social services and the appreciation of workers, on the contrary, there are things that make the whole work more complicated in social services, and it is rather a compilation of various proposals that is not very successful. Why am I talking about this law? This Social Services Act has changed funding into the form that has already been mentioned several times, which means that users receive a care allowance that they can make use of, whether they purchase nursing services in their home, in their home, in their home or outpatients, or use field services, or are placed in residential facilities, where the care allowance is, of course, already receiving the social services provider. These care allowances are the administrative expenditure of the State budget. Until 2006, social services were financed in a different way. NGOs received a so-called dedicated subsidy, which was already distributed by the regions by the end of 2006, and there was no problem with that. The municipalities, which are and were the founders of social services facilities, thus obtained a bed subsidy which was regularly validated. And the subsidies for providers through the regions, formerly districts and district offices, were CZK 13 billion by 2006. At present, we are moving around 22 billion in these expenditures, which is a contribution to care, plus 9.27 is a subsidy through the state budget, i.e. the regions, and we are already at 30 billion. And there are other sources, and this is the contribution of the founder, who is either a region or a municipality. They may also be other founders, such as NGOs, charities, diacons, and others who care about investments, but also about operating costs. Furthermore, these are payments from users that are regulated, and this is also quite important information. Because if they are regulated, then such a provider in that case is entitled to a subsidy from the region, formerly the state. If they weren't regulated, it would be possible to get more money, of course. It is clear that payment from the user would therefore be higher, but here we could talk about whether a system change would be necessary to lead by talking about a mandatory registration that ensures the quality of the services provided and at the same time would not be a condition for obtaining a subsidy if the provider did not want the subsidy. So separate the registration system from the subsidy system so that, for example, additional financial resources can be obtained from private sources. Furthermore, there are revenues from public health insurance, which are already drawn within indicated performances in the area of expertise 913. We have discussed this quite in detail on the Committee on Social Policy, when providers differ relatively. Part of the providers are willing to submit to the so-called dispute settlement procedure under the payment order when they want to raise money from health insurance. Other providers do not want to submit to this. So this situation is quite unclear. And these devices raise money on the basis of a so-called special contract. So that's the part of public health insurance. I have already talked about the subsidy from that time of the regions. About two years ago, I brought here an amendment relating to this, which could bring the time needed to set up a systemic change in the financing of social services. I have asked you, colleagues, to extend the transfer of the subsidy from the State to the county for at least two years. I wasn't granted. I pointed out that we are referring here to the correct understanding of the so-called public support, because the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has repeatedly sent a letter to the Audit Committee to my question that it consulted the Office for the Protection of Competition as a consultative point. I believe that this office is really only a consultative point and that, in my view, this transfer may have required notification by the European Commission as well. Although we are informed that these are compensation payments in services of general economic interest, this information was only provided to us through a consultation point, not by the European Commission. It follows that clearly the financing of social services is accompanied by a conflict of interest, because at the level of the regions that distribute subsidies, there is a conflict of interest, because the regions are also providers of social services, the founder, and at the same time decide on the amount of the subsidy. And it is clear that it is also in their interest again, so that they do not have to pay so much from their own resources to provide social services. At the same time, there is also an important debate with the municipalities, because some municipalities participate in co-financing for their citizens, who are located in senior homes, and some municipalities do not participate and do not force them to do so. Then there was a debate about how the salaries for workers in direct care and the salaries of health workers differ. Well, of course they're different. Now the question is, they're different in size. It is a question of how many health care workers are needed in these facilities and how many jobs can be covered by health care workers and how much can be covered by direct care workers. If we operate the same comparable facilities under the social services and health services regime, the operation for the set-up is approximately 100% different. It's one in two. It's twice the cost if the provider flips over to health services. As has been said here, the Committee on Social Policy has also dealt with these information systems. We are waiting for an answer from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which should map the quality of selection procedures for the Czech Social Security Administration. We have addressed this point at the last meeting of the Committee on Social Policy and we do not yet have this information. I join Mrs Hnyková through Mr President. It would be good to give a time limit for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to deal with the most delicate. I think it could be part of the resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies is asking the government to ensure a systemic change in the financing of social services'. I am sorry that, in the years when we are presenting debate and debate options, the Ministry of Labour has absolutely failed to respond, even in other matters. And I fear that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs does not deal with conceptual policy and that it may be more concerned with drawing on various projects for various incredible things. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u31	Thank you, ma'am. Another duly signed up for the general debate is Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u32	Thank you for the floor. Many have been said here. And I'm sure I'm joining the translator, although he's probably not here right now, but to thank you for the fact that this point is here at all. [[Mr Stanjure's petitioner is not sitting at the rapporteur's table, but in his bench.]] Oh, I'm sorry. - That we're discussing this point right now. And I am very sorry that the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs is not involved. I am in complete agreement with Mrs Hnyková that if she were to devote at least half the effort to what the Minister of Education has given or paid for increasing salaries in this sphere, i.e. in the field of pedagogical, if she had devoted Mrs Marksová to social workers, perhaps this point would not be necessary here today. However, the voice of social workers and in terms of their number is weaker than the educators, so from this point of view it is possible that the Ministry does not really record it enough. But I'd be surprised, more likely to be ignored. [[17.40 hours]] I have to remind you of one thing from last year. When we were discussing the budget and we were discussing the amendments, I tabled an amendment that was precisely about social services salaries, and I suggested that we allocate 226 million crowns that the Ministry wanted to allocate to new officials, and only to the Ministry of New Officials, so it increased its own numbers, so I suggested putting them instead to social workers. Unfortunately, I didn't get the proposition. This means that last year this change could have been adopted and we could have made social workers much better this year. We have more and more officials at the Ministry. Only during this period, only during the period of the Minister, there have been 40 percent increase, so it is clear that this really is the priority of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs - increasing the number of our officials instead of focusing on social services. I think it came from my colleague Sed, if right-wing politicians are ever getting in touch. Well, I can tell you, my colleague, through Mr President, that I certainly do. I also go to the regions, and not only in my region, which is Prague, but also in others I meet social workers and they have many reservations. And one of them is not only to pay, but also to increase paperwork, bureaucracy. This is by far not just about salaries, but their work is no longer just about really focusing on, let's say, what is gros' activity, care for, like, handicapped or elderly, but they need to focus on more and more reporting of their work, more and more paperwork. That's what I think we should take them down, too. So, while this is not on the agenda at this point, I considered it important to say this here, because in this regard neither the amendment to the Social Services Act, which is now here in the House, is of no benefit to the cause. Certainly we should not forget those who are in field services or who are engaged in prevention, who are in services that are not so visible at first sight, because most of the time we are talking about workers in social services in the sense of carers and health services that are provided in these services, because it is often on the border, but she is, of course, employed as street workers, working with young people in low-cost centres and clubs etc. We should certainly think about them, too, because their work is also very beneficial and important. And speaking of regions and how money distribution works now, it is from visiting individual regions and from discussing social workers and people who work in this area that I know really what the region is, it's a completely different moral. Every county treats it differently. Some regions really have a very strong preference for their facilities, only the ones they set up themselves, and then for the others, which need to be set up by nonprofit organizations, charities, etc., they have no money left, or they don't give money to the targeted ones, which, of course, creates a huge inequality, and in some regions even those services are either restricted or they are completely extinct. And that, I think, is also very much to be corrected. So it's a necessary system change. And I would point out here that when we were discussing this change, there was an opportunity to shift efficiency, and Mrs Chalánková presented it, so she had already mentioned it, two more years to better tune the system out. And Prague, for example, which I think is really very unfair, receives a coefficient in this regard, unlike the Moravian-Silesian region, where the population is roughly the same, 4 percent less, while the population is the same. There it was beautiful to see who was sitting at the time on the individual captains, who were the captains. They were mostly leaders for social democracy at the time, so they were lobbying for much higher shares, and Prague, which, of course, was the only one who had no social democracy at the time, came to a loss. And I would like to remove this injustice, because I do not think that the citizens of Prague are to be less entitled to quality and affordable social services for any reason, unlike, for example, their fellow citizens from other regions. I have deliberately mentioned here the Moravian-Silesian region because the population is roughly the same, even slightly lower than here in Prague. Here we have about 80,000 more inhabitants. The difference is really in large sums and, of course, Prague has to pay it back from its own. You can say Prague is rich, but I would say that we should treat this much more fairly. So I'd like to push for this change, since we haven't done it before when the law passed. So I just want to make sure that the wages and salaries in social services are increased, the work is certainly difficult, it is now the best possible opportunity. I think they should have grown much more significantly in this entire parliamentary term. And now that we hear from the Minister's mouth, not the Minister, Ex-minister Babiš, that it will now be an increase of 34 percent, I ask why it was only 3.4 percent in the first year of this parliamentary term, now it is tenfold more. I guess the election's coming up. It smells like it's not nice. Let us therefore support this resolution. I would be very happy if the social workers would join in and really feel it on their salaries and it wouldn't just be in the order of a few hundred crowns, otherwise they would really leave us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u33	Thank you, ma'am. The next one entered in the general debate is Mrs Jana Fischerová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u34	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor, and I will follow up on my previous speaker, I would say, in a similar tone. So, even though I am from the right hand side, I will confess that I have visited many different social facilities and I am still visiting social services facilities. Even in Prague, although I am, I will say, so-called from the countryside, also in other regions and especially in the Vysočina Region. There have been many things I wanted to say, but at least my visions, such a view of what we are discussing here today. The situation in social services is really bad, it's ruthless. I watch this when I talk to individual directors or workers, especially women, as we know that women work especially in these services, so if they are looking for a new worker to expand, whether for caregivers, or for those who are not fully qualified for this activity, but also for nurses, they have nowhere to reach. They would often need men, but in those services we know how they work, so most of the family breadwinners can't work there, because that's what we're talking about today - let's add to social services. It was also said today that 26. 4. we adopted the resolution, it is almost a month after and so far nothing has happened. We are talking here, the government here is represented by one minister, perhaps already a Vice Prime Minister, so I believe that it will take care of all this, so that what we are going to adopt here as a resolution, that there were arguments that were very serious and that this is what we want to do, indeed, to be added to the workers of social services. I will also mention some specific observations. From the terrain I know that often in some municipalities, i.e. cities, it happens that the biggest employers are social services. It happens a lot. And then the average salary, when statistics say what it is like in a given city, is really very low, because it is due to this large number of people employed in social services. And it has also been said, I think, that Mrs Hnyková, that geographical developments, as we know, will continue in this direction. Fifty thousand people work below the limit of 20,000 gross. In this case, in social services, it's a big number. We are only talking about workers in social services today, but as promised by the government here, so I have registered, and people in the regions are asking us how it will be with culture. It was also promised to add to the 1st of July. So I'm asking this question here, too, because even in this field, there are many people who are highly educated professionals, the college majority, and they also have similar low salaries. The workers employed in social services are mostly those who work and care for our loved ones, but they must comply with very strict laws. Care can be very, very individualized, because one really needs a human approach, and every patient needs to be treated differently and very sensitively. [[17.50 hours]] They are really educated, and I have also noted today that 24 hours a year have to do this, and often they do not have to pay for it by the employer. So there is a great administration, and it has also been said here, rampant in these services, that is what is bothering them. And especially then, when they're about to recruit new employees, as I said before, there's not much choice for existing salaries. But luckily, most people still come with a big heart who want to do it for those people and who choose this job as their mission. Paying social services workers is what we're talking about today. We should pay them as well as other workers in the following professions who work in these services. They're paramedics, special educators, although I think my previous speaker mentioned it too. They're laundromats, chefs, handymen. These all take part in the overall care of the people in these facilities, whether they are homes for seniors, homes for disabled people, homes with a special regime where they work in really continuous operation. While Secretary Marksová increases minimum wage, she forgot a little that the social services workers have about 13 to 14,000 on their basic salaries without an extra charge, which is no longer a big difference from the minimum wage. So I would like to conclude with my short, practical view of the matter, because I am not a social service specialist, rather this I know from the field, as I said, from some regions, possibly from Prague, so I would ask questions, even if I find it difficult to answer someone from the government today. First of all, there will be a change in funding in social services if it really comes to 1. 7. 2017 and how much salaries will increase. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u35	Thank you, ma'am. With a point of fact, Mr Zavadil. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u36	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me make a few comments. First of all, I'd like to thank Jana Hnyková, and she said what she was doing here professionally, and I think that with this whole profession and the weight of her personality, she's been fighting for social services, and it's her main merit that we're talking about it here today. That's what I'd like to make my first point. Then I'd like to be a little concerned with some of the things that happened before, and we kept our mouths shut. And I say that in general, we kept quiet. After all, in 2010 to 2012, wages in all these state spheres, whether they were health workers, whether they were schoolchildren, whether they were soldiers, whether they were cops. Luckily, social services didn't cut their salaries, they just froze there. But still. Why didn't we talk then? Why didn't you speak from the right? Because it's hard to catch up right now. And then, of course, it's also a subject of criticism. And I'm glad this initiative came from the right. So I myself will try to contribute to making sure that what has been proposed here goes through. Because I think these people deserve it. But let's not be hypocrites and remember what happened in the past, and let's just talk about it fair and square. Forty per cent of the Margo MPSV, through you, Mr President, Markétka. I'm sorry, but there was the destruction of Drabko's reform of reducing the number of employees there, I suspect even 1,200 or 1,800 people. And on the basis of the tripartite negotiations, he pleaded, and a colleague here can testify to that in order to complete the situation because it wasn't bearable. So the increase, the 40 percent, is what went down back then with Drábkův's reform of personnel in this area. So let's be fair again. So we need to say these things to each other fairly, frankly, why this happened... [[Attention on time.]] And so on and so forth. Thank you, I'm done.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u37	Thank you. Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová and her factual point. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u38	I cannot fail to hear the call for fairness, through Mr President. But that was only at the Department of Labour and Social Affairs. Careful, it wasn't at the employment offices, it wasn't at the other organizations the Ministry of Labour was setting up. These are the officials who are sitting in the building, which is in Prague 2, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, purely here this institution. So please stay out of it by the employment authorities, the Czech Social Security Administration and so on. Just so we're clear. Which is what I said, though, that they're just officials and the Department of Labour and Social Affairs. There was a 40 per cent increase in the number of employees under the Minister. If I look it up, I'll hand over the numbers. But it's just here under this roof, under this one roof.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u39	Thank you. Mrs Hana Aulická and her proper application to the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u40	Well, thank you for the floor, Mr President. Let me also comment on this discussion. I must say that I thank my colleague, by your means, Mr President, Mr Zavadil, because he once again told the only truth that is really true here, and that this topic has been raised here since the beginning by my colleague Hnyková and she has really tried both on the committee and in the Chamber of Deputies to improve the financing of not only the salaries of social workers but also the overall amount of money for social services. Of course we have here, there is evidence of this and amendments to the budgets, when our proposals and again our colleague Hnyková were also behind the KSČM. Unfortunately, the entire government or the entire government coalition has never heard these amendments. Don't be mad at me, but we are discussing this issue again today. I am glad for that, we are, of course, in favour of making funding for social services not only to increase wages. But let's get some pure wine. It's five months before the election. And how do we all see it? It's about the fact that you're overreacting here, which of the government and non-governmental parties is actually in favour of a faster increase in this money. And until then, three and a half years, did something happen? I don't think anything that big was going on. We drew attention not only to this in the discussion of the budget, but also to the other discussions on the Committee on Social Policy. I must say that we have also discussed this with the Minister. Unfortunately, I do not really see her comment as essential to the fact that 5% has been added. And, unfortunately, when I was discussing this with the representatives of individual regions, we had to say that there was no fundamental position on the part of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to really increase funds in social services, so that at least this situation would be calmed down. And as for other things. Mr... I don't really know what position I'm in today, if Minister Babiš has already been called off, I'm having a hard time defining it. Anyway, when presenting his draft budget, where he says that he will therefore add 24 per cent, the Minister of Labour immediately responded and so on. So don't be mad at me. I really see it as an election move. Nothing has been done until now. Five months till the election, and we all want to help. What have you all done to sit here? Nothing. [[And what did you do?]] So I think we have evidence that we've actually all done something about it. Just maybe a little bit of practice. Our basic social services networks are constantly growing. But subsidies from the state budget are more or less the same. In other words, we are increasingly short of money. And in the finals, everybody pays for it. So I thank you, and I believe that if he is before the election, we will all find reason and together we will pull together.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u41	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Ivan Gabal, Mrs Pekarová, then Mr Kořenek, then Mr Kaňkovský - all factual observations. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a certain need to respond to the previous speaker through you. First of all, I am new to the House, but if I have noticed, the House votes on the inclusion of the item, not one Member. And that point was suggested by colleague Stanjura, if I had noticed, if you would allow me to remind you, or read the minutes. Or are you caught by political blindness? That's one thing. Second thing. We started with social services in 2006. Today we have women and men in that zone who are about 70 years old. At what time were these people economically active, that they couldn't, couldn't, and couldn't make money to secure themselves in old age? I think it was the '70s and '80s. What did the pension and social system then look like in terms of people's chances of ensuring a dignified old age? We are now catching up with a number of considerations about what these people could not achieve with their own economic activity, because at that time no one was allowed to have a private or a newsstand and could grow maximum tomatoes and eggs. The basic responsibility to unfinance the social situation of these generations is a bit elsewhere. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u43	I thank Mr Gabal. Mrs Pekarová Adamová. Please, madam. After that, Mr Kořenek, Mr Kaňkovský, Mrs Aulická, Mr Opálka, Mrs Semelová, all factual points. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u44	I just have to respond to the "what you've done," the previous speaker asked Mrs. Aulická here. So, through Mr President, I remind you: I proposed an amendment - and you voted for it with your whole party, and the government coalition did not vote for it except for the exceptions from the KDU-ČSL - when I wanted to last year... I will still be corrected: this year, in the budget for 2017 to 226 million. The koruna just went to raise salaries in social services. So now let's not pretend that there are only some warriors. It is true that, indeed, there are various proposals that have been voted during this parliamentary term, and we can look back at who has subsequently taken the stand for this vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u45	Thank you. Mr Kořenek and his factual point, followed by Mr Víc Kaňkovský. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u46	Thank you. I'm not an expert on social services, but because I am their user, virtually. in the family, so I know how they're paid. However, it is not true that nothing has been done. Yes, unfortunately, so far the Drabka era has not been able to compare what has been left in social services. But just for the record, 16.5% increase since 1 January 2014. From 1 January 2014 2 %, from 1 November 2014 3,5 %, from 1 January 2015 4 %, from 1 November 3 % and from 1 November 2016 by 4 %. It's still not 17, it's 16.5. However, I do remember, and perhaps I am not completely out of it, that last year we also increased the contribution in the state budget, virtually. funding for social services. So it is not true that this coalition or this government does nothing for social services.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u47	Thank you. Mr. Vít Kaňkovský. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes. After him, Mrs Aulická.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u48	Good evening, colleagues and colleagues. I'll respond positively first. I would like to thank my colleague Jana Hnyková by your means, Mr President, because she is a person who, in fact, has been here for a long time, not just before the elections, advocates this subject, which I see as very important and at this point, I would say very critical. So I thank her for proposing this point at the last meeting, and I thank her for doing so in the past as well as with the proposals on the state budget. Then I would have one comment, also by your means, Mr President, on Mrs Aulická. It's not bad, but I don't like general courts. If we want to run some kind of political group here, and this is where we run it, let's not be general, let's say these things the way they were. This means, if we are talking about support or not supporting amendments to the state budget for this year, where support for social services salaries has been proposed, let us say truthfully who has supported what or not at all. But say everyone, everything - I don't think it's fair. So KDU-ČSL supported the previous inclusion of this point, supported the inclusion of that point today despite the fact that the government coalition as a whole did not support it, or that there was a conflicting view. And as far as these measures are concerned in the future, we would be in favour of a system solution, but at this point, we see that the time for a system solution is not here. That means if we find a solution to this critical situation now, we'll support it, and then let's look for the system solution. It is a pity that we are all getting to this at the end of the parliamentary term, or virtually. a number of subjects that are in the House. It's a shame. Press conferences are being convened. For three and a half years, the press conference wasn't open, and unfortunately, there wasn't much going on here either. I'm sure that's a shame. But I appreciate those who have been doing this for a long time. She's a colleague of Hnyková and some others. I have to say, it needs to be appreciated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u49	Thank you. Mrs Aulická, her factual point, followed by Mr Opálka and Mrs Semelová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u50	Well, just in a hurry, then. Thank you for the floor. I would only perhaps like to respond by your means, Mr Vice-President, to my colleague Gabal. I confessed to my colleague Stanjur today, virtually. ODS Club said they picked up today, and we're all happy about it. Maybe you didn't hear, that's a mistake. And just allow me to do the next one. Well, you know, through Mr President, we're a little used to the political level on your part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u51	Thank you. Mr Opálka, after him Mrs Semelová. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u52	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'd like to respond to Mr. Gabal's performance. That's the hawk that always warms up, but he's got a handle on it because he's got the necessary background. However, it may be recalled that as far as pensions are concerned, their amount is calculated from income since 1986. Of course, most of the revenue is already after 1990. As far as old pensions are concerned, people used to get a bonus on helplessness. At that time, when the Deputy - and before the Deputy - sat at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs for KDU-ČSL, they together with the National Council of Disabilities prepared the Act on Social Services, which we actually find difficult to evaluate, because we were all involved in our vote. But the result was quick. If the contribution to helplessness - and now don't take me at my word, but it's orders - was some 6 billion, so the contribution to care under the new law jumped to 18 billion. And where is the money? A colleague named Hnyková, a colleague named Adamová Pekarová and others said that. The system has simply been built up and the KDU-ČSL party is responsible for this in particular when these charges are already being dropped. And I'd like us all to be a little less explosive and more focused on the problem. Because - I have spoken to it several times, and I will not elaborate - the social services system, as it is prepared, is not for the future. Something's gotta happen to it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u53	Thank you. Mrs Marta Semelová, Mrs Jana Hnyková, Mr Fiedler, Mr Gabal, followed by all factual points. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u54	Thank you, Mr President. It just doesn't make me react to my colleague, Gabal, through you, of course. Vít Kaňkovský here talked about the need to say things the way they are, the way they were and so on. I warmly agree with him, and therefore, through Mr President: Mr Gabal, honourable Member, you are talking about the 70s, 80s that these people could not save up for retirement and the like. They saved up what they needed at the time, and they lived out of it. Because they couldn't at the time know that since the 1990s, your regime would start stealing from them, that it would make everything more expensive for them and that it wouldn't be enough for them to pay for socialism, that they would have to pay high rents, that they would have to pay for it, thanks to your parties, that they would have to pay for everything, and it would have been expensive. So what you're saying is just very, very distorted. Look at the way they lived back then. And look at the statistics on how many pensioners are currently in poverty. And the esteemed Mr. Stanjura might as well get over it, but that's true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u55	Mrs Jana Hnyková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u56	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, please, let us stop arguing and overreacting whether the left or the right. Please, social services, health care, education, the army, police and firefighters should be in the interest of both the left, the right, the center, and we should all be interested in making this work for our citizens. When you lie on the bed in that social services facility, you won't care what the right says or what the left says. [[The Member gradually adds to the power of the voice.]] You will want to be provided with care on that bed, quality and people who will be properly paid. I'm upset, that's why I'm raising my voice like this. Please stop arguing about what anyone has ever done, and let's get back to things, and that's an increase in the salaries of social services employees. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u57	Thank you, Mrs Hnyková. Her appeal certainly couldn't be heard. Mr Karel Fiedler and his factual point, followed by Mr Ivan Gabal. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u58	Well, Jana, I'm sorry, colleague Hnyková, said it before me. Let's stop arguing here, let's stop dealing with some left-to-right political issues. It doesn't do anything. I think we all have this interest here. I just have a little bit of trouble with the fact that there are often a lot of talk about how we want to do something, and then when we vote, the vote of some, and it's basically about every club or almost every club, it's completely different. I already have the experience that when someone has a social name, they don't always behave socially, and when they have a democratic name, they're not always a democratic entity. And when it is protected by direct democracy, it has a dictatorship in its statutes rather than a direct democracy. It's about money. It's all about money. And let us show our will, on which we will all agree more or less when we vote on the budget, when we vote on amendments to move where. But when we get to the budget, I can vividly imagine how many of us will be, and I will be one of them, criticizing the 50-billion-dollar deficit proposed. It's gonna be different here, and we're gonna have to look for the savings. And don't be mad at me, co-workers and co-workers, I'm gonna warm up my soup again. Many of you have been talking about how you want to collect taxes, how you're going to tax them. Even the Vice Prime Minister suggested that he tax the koruna bonds. And when I suggested that we put it in place here, he said that the plus 13 billion would be added to the budget, then many of you who are talking about the money are rejecting it. So, when the budget comes up, let's all show up based on how we're all talking here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u59	Thank you. Mr Ivan Gabal, after him President Michal Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u60	Thank you. I'm not going to hold back the debate about the money moving in, but we need to know why we're putting it in there. Here's the first one... The high school standard of statistics, by your means for colleague Semelová, will show a life expectancy of 10 years plus minus in the last 23 years. More women, a little less men. That means we have people working in the '70s and '80s who have benefited partly from the extension of life in the social services band today. And this is important because, of course, the combination of age, social and health problems is important. Now why did it extend? Quality of life? It's not just medicine. The basis of this statistical indication is subjective satisfaction, perception of long-term perspective and trust in institutions and conditions. There is nothing to be done, despite all the problems that have been here, so not only with the help of medicine, life has been extended and quality of life increased, and therefore the demand for social services also increases for people who worked in the 1980s and 1970s and who would not have had that longer life if the change had not occurred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u61	I thank Mr Gabal. Mr Miroslav Opálka, factual point. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u62	Thank you. I'd like to follow up on the demographic break. It must be said, first of all, that this was also influenced by the years that died, which went through the first, second world war and crisis years. Then it must be said that they are citizens who have already lived in that criticized society, and the biggest part of the extension of life is cardiothoracic surgery. In addition, of course, new drugs, pressure on a new way of life, as well as improving the standard of living. But if anyone thinks that in the 27 years we would have stayed at that level in 1989, then I dare say that this is a stupid thing, because even in 1950 it wasn't the same as in 1945, or 1960 it wasn't the same as in 1950, and so on. It's abnormal if we don't accept that even though we may or may not like the company, there may always be some sort of shift. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u63	Thank you, honourable Member. Now duly entered into the general debate by Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u64	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, Dear Ministers, Ladies and Gentlemen, I also thank Mrs Hnyková, who has consistently advocated the entire parliamentary term for correcting the financing of social services, especially the correction of salaries in social services. I respect my colleague very much. Opals with which we sat on a committee and which is a walking encyclopedia of the social system in the Czech Republic. I think he remembers even more than I do, and he knows very well that the new Social Services Act was being prepared by Minister Škromach at the time. This law was intended primarily to bring resources directly to those affected who were to buy social services for them. Unfortunately, this has not happened, and since 2006, when the care allowance was approved, the allowance for care has gradually increased from 14.6 billion between 2007 and 2009. 18,7 billion. Crowns. And from these funds paid to citizens, 770 million were spent in 2007 to cover social services, 936 million in 2008. and in 2009 only 1.3 billion. Crowns. [[18.20 hours]] This means, at the same time, that there has been a blackout in the financing of social services through subsidies. Between 2006 and 2007, subsidies fell from 17.3 billion. 11 billion. Crowns. This means that over 6 billion were missing to finance social services. Crowns. And I remember very well the period 2006 to 2010 when amendments were always proposed at the end of the year, which increased payments to cover social services, I think it used to be up to 1.5 billion in order to make up for the fall that was there in some way. It was a nonsystemic solution and basically the nonsystemic solution remained there. Then it was decided that the subsidy cycle, the subsidy policy would be transferred to the edge, and when the whole subsidy procedure was transferred to the edge during this parliamentary term, many pointed out the problem that the imbalance in resources remained and that it was actually transmitted that there were no known calculation formulas that were required to be clear and transparent, how subsidies for financing social services were calculated. These objections, which were not taken into account, were thus passed on to the region. Of course, even with the deficit that has been there since 2006 and which has not been in line. That is why I want to say that even though we have been pushing for a number of years to remedy and system solutions, this has not happened, so the situation today is that the funds are not being received and the salaries of social services workers are low. And this is unbearable, and that is why we support the resolution that has been tabled because we think that when a system solution has failed, we must adopt a non-systemic solution in order to eliminate the unbearable state that persists in some way. Therefore, the proposal that has been submitted will support our club. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u65	Thank you. Mr Rom Kostřica. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. After him, Mr. Ondřej Benešík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u66	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to raise one more such aspect to social problems. In every workplace where larynx tumors are removed, there are a number of people to whom the larynx must be removed whole, and these people cannot, of course, speak. These people gather in the so-called Laryngectomised associations or clubs, i.e. people who are trying to improve their social destiny in some way in a common way. Now I'd just like to poke a little bit into the Ministry of Education, because we say we have zero illiteracy. That's true, but if you look at it from a different point of view, practically, you'd be surprised when you remove a larynx from a person who's about 60 years old and then you need him to communicate in writing. You would be surprised that these people who may have used pencils and paper when they signed the teaching certificate, and then at most to fill out the Sportka or sazka slips, that they are not completely able to agree and communicate with the help - not to agree, but to communicate in writing. It's surprising, but anyone who encounters it knows that this is what they call it. illiteracy is not official, but the practical impact is different. These people need to create conditions to improve their social destiny. And I haven't been to the meeting, but I know him very well. It was a worker who was a descendant of our first immigrant wave from 1948 after the Communist coup, who lived in England and had a fairly decent chance of Czech vocabulary. She worked in such facilities in England, and she wanted to improve the ratio of these people in some way, like she's a certified speechmaker. There was no problem, of course there is interest in these people in this social sphere. And then when it came to the question of salary - as I say, I wasn't there, but I know a very similar case with one English doctor. When she was told the amount of her salary, it is logical to ask whether it is a weekly or daily salary. When she was told it was a monthly salary, she naturally lost interest. I think that these things, too, should be taken into account in order to actually do the best that can be done in this matter, and I think that is what Mrs Hnyková is trying very well to do. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u67	Thank you. Mr Ondřej Benešík and his application. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u68	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to be overly controversial here, but I am only interested in the comments made by Mrs Semelová about when she said your regime. I am glad that we have this regime because we are sitting here across the political spectrum, democratically debating, we have choices in life, in politics, etc. I was 14 years old when so-called. velvet revolution. My parents were enemies of socialism. I'm not bringing this up. I kind of remember. We couldn't afford what people could afford these days. I will not argue that many people have a standard of living that is really low, and let's not blame each other, just our job is to work to make it as high as possible. But back to that statement - your regime. I happen to have seen the headline recently, and I'm impressed with some headline somewhere on the server. Let me quote that. Miloš Jakeš: November staged StB. Dissidents don't take credit for that. Your regime? I don't know.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u69	I thank Mr Benešík, who has been the last to be enrolled in the general debate so far. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. If there is no such person, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking about the final words. The plaintiff. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u70	Thank you for the floor. It wasn't easy to sit around and just listen, but I did. We had nine performers, 23 factual comments. Today is 24 May 2017 and my resolution, which I had in a detailed debate, has been addressing the situation since 1 July 2017, which is approximately five or less than six weeks from now. We have been going over the years 2006, 2010, 2010, 2011, 2013 in the debate since the 1980s, and some have been focusing on this date since 1 July 2017. And so a few notes. We live in a democratic state and no regime, but that is hard to explain to the Stalinists. For Mr Seďa. I've been thinking about how to put this politely. I don't know what kind of world you live in, and that's a really inappropriate and offensive remark about whether a right-wing politician ever visited a welfare facility. If I wanted to be the same, I'd say you're not serious. You right-wingers, have you ever been there? Well, many times. I don't see you in the Moravian-Silesian region either. Anyone who had a function of self-government was, by the way, the founder of many important care facilities, so he knows them. I want to refute one - it is not a mistake, it is misleading statements made by colleagues from the left. That social policy is the left-wing principle. Quite the opposite. Concepts such as solidarity, compassion, mercy are conservative values that suit each conservative right-wing party. The whole other thing is socialist politics. Mr Seďa shows the promotional material of the MPSV. I've got it, too. I'll show him the same picture. He shows that he's actually reading, but he doesn't know what. [[18.30 hours]] I do not know which of the Members, I think Mr Gabal, maybe I am mistaken, said that social services use various sources of funding. First of all, they're families, you can't see it anywhere. I would say a completely disproportionate accusation of family abuse of care allowance is not appropriate. The family's already worried about having a disabled family member, taking care of him, and someone's accusing them of using money. That's not true. So that's the second shot for the family. In addition to having a disabled person in his ranks to look after, someone else throws them: what do you do with the money when you take care of him at home? Well, they don't put him in an institution and take care of him. That's the second source, except for the family money, the care allowance. Municipal money, county money and state money. So let's talk about the total volume. There's a point. I think the care allowance that goes to the client is correct. Either we trust those families, or we don't trust them. And if we trust them, we'll give them the money to take care of those who need it, whether they're seniors or handicapped, in their natural habitat. It is much better, much more social and more merciful than moving somewhere and saying: everything can best stand. It's not true. I do not know if Mr Seďa has ever heard of a major project in the previous programming period, in 2017 to 2013 (?), which served as another source of funding for social services, which were named individual projects. From your performance and the fact that you're waving this table, I'm guessing not. That was the solution, I know it was unique, because it was limited in time with which the minister of the right-wing government came. And ask those providers how much they put together on these individual projects and co-financed the social services. Mr Kaňkovský. If I understood correctly, he didn't like the fact that I had a press conference today. That was about the sixth time in this parliamentary term. It has nothing to do with the election. It's not the first time. Maybe you didn't notice the five, maybe we could've been stronger, maybe we didn't push that point the same day, but that doesn't really have anything to do with the election. But even if by chance, read our program "190 steps for a better Czech Republic," see what we are writing about social services. And we've been saying it for a long time. I recommend you, for example. debate with our social services expert, Lenka Kohoutová. And don't tell me he's only doing this before the election. He's been doing it his whole life. Well, those are cheap attacks. However, it was said in the debate that, in principle, everyone is ready to support this. I had to respond to some of those political fouls that somebody didn't forgive, I'm sure I still have a few notes. Those of you who said it wanted a system solution are right. But since I mentioned today's date, and we know when the term ends, there's just no time for it, and those who said that if there's no system, they have to make some non-standard ones, they're absolutely right. My resolution, which I have already said once, which I will read in a detailed debate, is simple. He doesn't solve techniques, he doesn't solve disputes between ministries, he doesn't solve grades. By the way, this government has abolished degrees and greater penetration and greater flexibility in the remuneration of social workers in 2014, which is a shame because it would help those who run those organisations. And I also want to say that the situation on the labour market has changed, and that is why the shortage of workers in this difficult profession is critical. These are all factors that need to be approached by an extraordinary means. The government can make an executive decision without changing the law. This resolution is quite simple: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic to ensure an increase in salaries for social services workers by at least CZK 3,000 a month from 1 July 2017.' Let the government find a chapter to find a way, that is not the task of the Chamber of Deputies. It's not an assignment, it's a polite request. From the debate - which, by the way, was attended by representatives of all the club members, I am very pleased that this was an interesting topic and that everyone wanted to do so - I got the impression that it prevails, the number of people, the number of Members and Members who support this solution significantly outweighs, so let's approve it and then let's ask the government sometime in July or September, how it resolved, from which chapter it took it. It's not that important. What's important is term 1. 7. 2017 and the amount that is minimum from our point of view, CZK 3,000 a month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u71	Thank you, Mr. plaintiff. We will proceed to the debate in detail. Mr. Chairman Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u72	I certainly hope that if I apply, when I finish my final word, I won't read it again. Thank you, I will sign up for this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u73	Enough. Thank you. Now, with Mr Seďa's point of fact, with Mrs Hnyková's point of fact, then with priority rights, President Kučera. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u74	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, I will be very brief. If anyone's fouling around here, it's fouled by the chairman of the MP's club, and always. And second information. Unlike him, I have been on the Social Policy Committee for two years, and that is for Minister Drábek, so I know very well what he has done and what he hasn't done.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u75	Thank you. With the factual remark of Mrs Jana Hnyková. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u76	Mr President, that was not factual, I applied for a detailed debate and I thought that factual remarks could no longer be made.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u77	If Prime Minister Kučer doesn't mind? The Prime Minister will prefer you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u78	If you would allow me, I would return to our resolution, which we adopted on 26 April, and I would read it now in a detailed debate. I would extend this resolution. I very much appreciate that President Stanjura is proposing this resolution, but I would still like us to bring some order into this, so that it is not just about the $3,000, but that the conceptual change that the government can accept in its regulation to be long-term. So I will allow myself in a detailed debate to read and repeat the resolution to you and to extend it to another matter. So the Chamber of Deputies asks the government to 1. address the critical personnel situation in social services without delay; 2. discussing a significant increase in salaries and salaries for employees directly caring for clients and social workers; 3. He quickly adopted an amendment to the Government Decree amending Government Decree No. 5647/2006 Coll., on the salaries of employees in public services and administration, as amended, which he will amend, among other things. salaries of employees in social services. For staff stabilization it is necessary to delete the current Annex No 1 and No 2 of the Government Order, to include the staff listed in Annex No 1 in Annex No 3 and to include the staff listed in Annex No 2 in Annex No 6; 4. allocate and provide sufficient funds from the state budget of CZK 3 billion for this year to increase the salaries of employees in social services; 5. initiates a process of systemic change in the financing of services; 6. carried out an increase from 1. 7. The Commission shall be assisted by a committee within the meaning of 7. for the Prime Minister to inform us about this at our meeting on 6 June 2017. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u79	Thank you and I will ask you for the text of this resolution. Chairman Kučera with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u80	Thank you for the floor. I must say, I'm a little embarrassed. Of course, the resolutions that have been made here today have much truth in them. The question is how much we, as Members, can raise our hands on proposals that have simply not been discussed, to the extent that at least we did not know more about them in advance, so that we can also stand up to them as parliamentary clubs. [[18.40 hours]] I understand, of course, that we are now put in a position at the moment when those who do not raise their hands for this resolution will be called those who do not want to raise their salaries, respectively. who opposed increasing salaries in social services. Personally, I don't think that's the way the question stands. That those who may not raise their hands for this are, I think, those who want a more responsible solution, not a solution that is not, to put it mildly, discussed. I think this really deserves to be discussed in our clubs so we can talk more about it. Why does it have to be an increase of CZK 3,000? Why not 3,500? For not 4,300 or 5,600? I really don't know why it's going to be 3,000 crowns... [[Silence - Mr Zavadil cancels the speaker's debate at the rapporteur's table.]] That means, of course, the question is, where did the sum of CZK 3,000 come from? That's really a big question mark. Another, and I would consider that rather than the very value of the amount of social workers we are talking about here. I don't know if they're civil servants, if they're employees of those nonprofit agencies, if they're employees of urban fellowship organizations or some other employees. And I would remind you here, and it was a pretty big affair, and I don't want to put it all on the same level, of course, but it might have some similar connotations, and that was the government's promise to increase the salaries for bus drivers. You remember that debate when the government came to the regions and said, "We're gonna raise salaries for drivers who go for the region." And all of a sudden, it turns out that there's no money, and it's not really solved, which drivers are supposed to increase it, etc. And I'm afraid we're facing something similar today. I would therefore ask the petitioner to hear this resolution, which I say again, at the last moment, and not to be properly discussed, to give us a better explanation. To tell us where the 3,000 crowns came from. And I am not going to contradict them, of course, clearly here I am, and I have said this several times here that social services workers are actually undervalued, that they are working for undignified wages, and that they are even in a situation today where we will not be able to find employees at all in these places, because the labour market is quite well selected today. So I'd like to ask for some justification as to where the 3,000 crowns came from, but more importantly, how the increase will take place. That means which employees are involved. Whether they are civil servants, or all employees in social services, or how we are to treat this as actually a municipal authority. So whether the money comes into the city's budgets to be able to raise employees, just as far as a senior home is concerned, which is set up by the city, whether it concerns only the caregivers, or whether it concerns nurses who work in a senior home, which I have taken as an example here, because I think it is also important. Because if we add to the caregivers, logically, we should add to the nurses. Because suddenly the caregivers get, as I've said here several times today, suddenly they get very close to the nurses on salary. That means I'd be interested. And I wonder if we're talking about table salaries or moving ingredients, or how this wage is going to be increased. So I'd like to ask you to do this before the vote, if there's any way that the representative of the petitioner can justify it more. I think he deserves that, and I would hate for us to discuss this here only from an educationally popular point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u81	Thank you to Prime Minister Kučer. This has been the last one entered into a detailed debate so far. If no one else is reporting, I am ending the debate in detail. I'm asking for the final word. Please, Mr. plaintiff.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u82	I thought Ivan Pilný was the new finance minister, and he seems to think so, Michal Kučera, but it's okay. Simple as that. The proposal is based on the experience of the directors of these organizations. It's a compromise. It's more of a minimum amount, because I know that such a procedure must be gradual. It is not what we and the directors of these organizations would like to see, average salaries. Second of all, I'm just gonna give you a fair answer. I'm not gonna comment. The resolution is very clear. This applies to all workers in social services regardless of the founder. No matter. It's about who's doing the job, not whether it's a nonprofit, or if it's a city company, regional or state, whether it's a contribution organization or other legal form. It's important who does social services. There are very strict conditions for that. Social services are registered, it can't be if someone remembers it's gonna take place today and so on. So I beg you to support my resolution. The resolution put forward by Mrs Hnyková is more detailed, as if she is dealing with something for the government. Anyway, I think he deserves support, too. The resolutions are complementary, they do not go against each other. The second is more detailed, the first would only give a general principle and a general request to the government to resolve it. The latter gives us a clue how and says that the Prime Minister should give us information in the next week if they already know how to deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u83	Thank you. I will call our colleagues from the lobby and we will vote on the resolution. First of all, the one proposed by President Stanjura, then the resolution proposed by Mrs Hnyková. I would like to ask President Stanjura to cooperate if he would always read the motion for a resolution and then vote on it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u84	Definitely, Mr. Vice-President. We will vote in order as the resolution has been proposed. Madame, I'm checking visually, she agrees. The first resolution I proposed on behalf of our club is very simple. "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic to ensure an increase in salaries for social services workers by at least 3,000 a month from 1 July 2017.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u85	I'm signing you all off, please sign up with your voting cards. I will vote on this resolution, as President Stanjuru has put it. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 153; 92 Members and Members are registered, for 92, against none. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u86	Thank you for supporting our proposal. The second resolution, I will say it formally, let the honourable Member check on me, is the resolution on the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies number 1650 of 26 April 2017. In point 4, the words "three billion' are added and two new points are added. "Six: she made an increase from 1. 7. 2017'. And the seventh point: "To inform the Prime Minister of the Chamber of Deputies in a variable week from 6. 6. 2017'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u87	Is everyone clear on what we're going to vote on? The honourable Member delivered a resolution in a detailed debate. The MP has stumbled on the procedure, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u88	I think it is not for the procedure now, but for the substance of this amendment. It's not? Okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u89	I'm sorry. The honourable Member has proposed this resolution as follows. It's her right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u90	Point 4 is amended there, the amount is added and paragraphs 6 and 7 of the resolution are added. We must take a vote on this proposal. You can't change it anymore. It is voteable, it is for resolution No. Regulation (EC) No 1650 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 April 2017 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u91	I think it's clear to everyone what they're going to vote on. That is why I am opening the vote on this resolution. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It is a 154 vote, 94 Members and Members registered, for 57, against none. The motion for a resolution has been adopted. I thank the President for his cooperation. I'm done discussing this point. And I am giving the floor to the President of the Election Commission, Mr Kolovratník, who wants to introduce us to the electoral commission's request. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u92	Thank you for that word. I'm glad he got to me by 7:00. Colleagues and colleagues, I come before you on behalf of the electoral committee and respond to the events that I'm sure you've been watching in the media. President Miloš Zeman today appointed our colleague Ivan Pilný as Minister of Finance, which will bring about changes in the institutions of the Chamber of Deputies. As you know, a Member who becomes a Minister can no longer be and will not be a member of the various committees. So I hereby declare a deadline for the submission of proposals by the Members' Clubs for changes in the composition of the Chamber of Deputies. I have now described this by requiring my colleagues from the ANO movement. Of course, the deadline is universal, i.e. And for you, maybe. for other Members' clubs, if you would like to propose any change anywhere, you can use this deadline. We also know that this morning we decided and set up a committee of inquiry of the Chamber of Deputies to investigate the infringement in connection with the files of law enforcement authorities, etc. - if you'll allow me, I won't read the full name of the committee. So, following the morning provisions of this commission, I also declare a deadline for this commission to be fulfilled. I set both time limits by Monday 5 June until 12.30 pm - I repeat again for club presidents - by 5 June until 12.30 pm. It's Monday before the variable week, so that the electoral commission can sit on Tuesday 6th and then the election itself could take place on Wednesday 7th June. That's the last piece of information I'll recall. The Commission is agreed to be seven members, i.e. Each member of the Assembly shall nominate one of his representatives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-020-348.u93	I thank the President of the Election Commission. Now we should start with point 12, but the Minister of the Interior is not present, so we will not load this point. President Stanjura apologizes for the rest of the day for working reasons. And I'm starting a point.
