ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u1	209. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the Paris Agreement /German press 932/ - first reading This House press was renegotiated on 19 January at the 54th meeting when we interrupted the general debate. I ask that the Environment Minister Richard Brabec, rapporteur for first reading, Mr Václav Zemek, take the position at the rapporteur's table, is here. We will therefore now continue the interrupted general debate to which Mrs Jana Černochová is claiming with priority law. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. If I'm not mistaken -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u3	I apologise, Madame Members, your colleagues are not aware of you enough. I'll ask for peace in the courtroom. [[Mrs Černochová: I am used to this.]] Please, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u4	At the last meeting during the discussion of this point, there was an agreement that, in addition to the Minister of Environment Brabec, the Minister of Industry and Trade should also be present in the discussion of the Paris Agreement. And since he's not here, I suggest you remind me that we interrupt this point into the presence of the Minister of Industry and Trade.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u5	You don't have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u6	Mr Vice-President, this is the same case as he was in custody here on a proposal from Mrs Chalánková due to the absence of Secretary Marksová. So the exact same procedure as that point two back.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u7	I'm very sorry, but unfortunately, I don't have any of this written in my materials. Sorry. [[The Chair shall consult outside the microphone.]] So here the legislation tells me that Minister Mládek has spoken twice before and enough for the House. We would have to vote on this matter repeatedly. So if you have this proposal, please, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u8	Well, in that case, I'm redesigning this procedural proposal. I would not even specify that this is the Minister of Industry and Trade Mládek, because we know that he has been called away by the Prime Minister. His appeal was confirmed by the President. So to at least have the Prime Minister here, if the Prime Minister is really that person, according to the media, he is who runs the Ministry of Industry and Trade. [[President: Yes, the Prime Minister is in charge.]] So please interrupt the presence of the Minister of Industry and Trade, the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u9	Thank you. I'm signing you all out. We will vote on this procedural proposal without debate. [[The President is waiting for the numbers to settle.]] In the event that the number of Members is settled, I shall initiate a vote on the suspension of this point in the presence of the Minister of Industry and Trade. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 203, 98 Members are registered, for 27, against 45. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore continue with the interrupted general debate, which was the first to which Mr Jan Klán came forward. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Minister, fellow Members, I have spoken here many times with factual remarks on the issue of the Paris Climate Agreement. I outlined my hypothesis here, she's not just my hypothesis, but it's a hypothesis from this changes everything, climate capitalism by Naomi Kleinová, that global capitalism is responsible for global warming. [[Member's book shows]] I'm going to elaborate on this theory a little bit... [[Laughing from the left side of the hall.]] Because I have already developed it at a seminar organized by the Ministry of the Environment, where we talked about this topic, or we have solved various problems of this type. We even agreed that global warming exists, which no one is denying today, at least academics and scientists aren't denying. This may be denied by supporters, for example, of the carbon lobby and other various corporations, which are somehow hindered by global warming. And we also agreed that even if extraterrestrials landed here, they probably wouldn't be much help, or they would say that there really is global warming. However, here would play the role of Fermi's paradox, which says where all the aliens are when we haven't discovered them until today. So it would also be a shame if we destroyed our blue planet in some way with global warming. I'm going to introduce you to my contribution here, which I called Capitalism against Climate. The article responded to the Paris Climate Agreement, where representatives of the world and of all states agreed that they should maintain a temperature rise of around 2 °C by the end of the century for that century. The question will remain whether we will actually succeed, or manage to do so in some way in the global, because when we think of the Kyoto Protocol, which has already been dealt with in some way, they have withdrawn from it on the one hand. The United States as the largest polluter, and, of course, China did not sign it back then. Today, the case is actually similar when you have a new American president, Donald Trump, who says he's going to break through to oil, that somehow they're going to benefit more from mineral resources, they're going to mine coal. So that means he probably won't be joining the Paris Climate Agreement that much. Of course, Čína says it's waiting for America to do America, which is what they're going to do. China is in captivity to the high development, where there are the most people in the world, and there is a new middle class that will adopt the habits of a Western-type consumer society, which we have. And that's what's threatening with a huge increase in various exhalations, because the theory that's going on in the world of capitalist globalization today is that, in its essence, they all want to make endless growth on the final planet. But we know that our planet is as final as our resources. So we live on a blue planet, a planet that vibrates with life, so far the only known to us in the universe. I've already told you about the Fermi paradox that we still don't know if we have another planet in the universe that is similar to ours, and we've found life there, or perhaps more advanced in some way, that they'd advise us on what to do with our global warming. Humanity, however, as the highest intelligent group, is destroying the planet more and more quickly. There's been dramatic shifts over the last 50 years. When these shifts began to manifest themselves more and more, capitalist globalization emerged as an instrument to alleviate the crisis of the 1970s. When we look at the 1970s, when capitalist globalization starts to emerge in some way, the first oil shock comes to us in 1973, and then the second oil shock in the late 1970s. There are already these trends where OPEC, the Organization of Oil Exporting States, somehow eliminates or somehow raises the price of oil and other things. Those who planted the seed of capitalist globalization in the 1970s may not even realize that they have sown the wind and are now reaping the storm. As I was saying here, globalization started the idea of endless growth. Endless growth. And in the '70s, the so-called Roman Club began to emerge. I was amused by the representatives of the Civil Democratic Party at that seminar when I was called, in some way, being captured by Roman club theorists who deal with the limits of growth and exceeding the limits. But that's an indisputable fact, because data doesn't lie. [[11.10 hours]] Scientists therefore now appeal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, to hold various conferences on this subject. The last one was a climate conference in Paris. The conference agreed that by the end of the century, the countries of the world wanted to keep global warming well below 2 °C. However, the agreement will not apply until 2020. At that seminar, I also asked the Minister if we had the opportunity to withdraw from the agreement, what would happen if the United States didn't keep it, what would happen if India didn't, which is another state, where many people live, who will adopt the very consumer habits of global capitalism, which is then linked to global warming. Why so long, then? This is likely to suit the very powerful of this world, who do not want to reduce greenhouse gas emissions under any circumstances. Here it must be stressed that the captains of capitalist globalization, which are those multinational corporations, will always claim that global warming does not exist. It's going to be the carbon lobby anyway. All the time. Because it's an obstacle to their expansion and development. This changes everything - This changes everything - climate capitalism journalist Naomi Kleinová, author of the famous book No logo - No logo, or Shock doctrine - The shock doctrine. In this latest book of his, he clearly states that we will either have a living planet or capitalism. We can't have both. And he's right. It turns out that capitalism, I note global capitalism, which divides the world into rich north and poor south, is responsible for the fact that conditions that have been closed at various conferences are still not respected. Representatives of large businesses, multinational companies say global warming is just a myth, but we can't help it if the planet gets warmer, and as another argument, well, we shut down businesses and wonder what you're going to do with people released. It holds the chess of both national states, first of all, and nature, which I think will soon give fate mates, because if we don't start regulating it in some way, there will be this problem. Here it must be said that the theory of planetary limits appeared in 2009. But as I was saying here, this theory of planetary limits builds on the theory of exceeding the limits and different limits of growth. This was brought by Professor Johan Rockström from the Stockholm Institute and brought the concept of nine planetary limits. They are: climate change. This is, in my opinion, the most pressing at the moment, because we all see it around us, because we are all, regardless of whether we are from any political party or from any state, affected by climate change, by weather change. You know, the weather's getting more turbulent, it's changing faster, there's temperature fluctuations. Once it's hot, once it's cold. The weather isn't permanent, like it used to be. Another planetary limit is the acidification of the ocean. It turns out the ocean is getting more acidic. Another damage to the ozone layer. Fortunately, this problem was partially solved by removing the Freons in the late 1980's and other substances from different facilities, especially from refrigerators, which was a relatively specific problem in the 1980's. And that's where the deal was finally found, so the fridges and various other freon devices were removed. Another planetary limit - biogeochemical flows of phosphorus and nitrogen. This problem is linked to global warming. Sources of fresh water. We have increasingly polluted resources and their capacity is running out. I also foreshadowed that the next conflicts, the next wars would be especially about water. Water, especially fresh water, is running out. And that is also the undeniable fact that fresh water is running out, so the next wars will be especially about water. Use of territory. More and more arable land is built by buildings, warehouses and arable land are slowly disappearing. This phenomenon is what I call building capitalism, when all the arable land is stopped by senseless halls, warehouses, so this land is then unused, and only warehouses remain there. Loss of biodiversity. Animal and plant species are dying out. Atmospheric aerosol. We all know him again. It occurs in the air as cancer-forming agents, smog, etc., which is also a relatively large phenomenon. And the last is chemical contamination - constant high use of pesticides, discharges of chemicals into nature, water, etc. According to this theory, we have clearly crossed at least three planetary limits. I'm sure you'll answer your own questions. Of course, this problem is related, as I have already said, to the impact on society. Global warming can have a negative effect on people's migration, and I've also been here before, when we've been dealing with some sort of migration crisis here. So, of course, global warming can somehow also affect migration. But, as I said before, the biggest impacts are, of course, on the whole society. Recently, an expert on globalization from Britain, Leslie Sklair, who visited the Czech Republic, said that extreme weather, drought, all of this is here with us. About 99 percent of scientists today perceive that there is a very serious crisis for our civilization. We can't keep growing. This is where I come across the problem of endless growth. Either we get to a stable state, or we need to start thinking about what planet we're going to hand over to our grandsons. I was also fascinated at that seminar when it said that suddenly new sources of oil, new sources of coal, were found. I don't know where they were found. It may be true, but as I said, we live on a final planet with finite resources. Maybe next time we'll be mining some minerals, coal, etc. on the Moon, but I don't know where it would come from because coal is the remains of organic animals and plants. However, on other bodies of the solar system, we can benefit from some other elements. So I'm very curious about what's going to happen when we run out of oil and when we run out of all the minerals, because when it's cold, what we're going to be drowning, if we're jumping all the trees and in some way... I can't imagine. But I'm more interested in how this is dealt with by the concept of nuclear energy, because if we want to switch to purely renewable energy sources, which is water, wind, sun, geothermal energy, the way nuclear energy fits into it, because nuclear energy is an irrecoverable source. I'm looking forward to finding the opportunity here to make a thermonuclear reaction, like the sun, when light elements start to merge in the harder. I know we can split the heavy ones in light today. So I'm very curious to see if we can do that, because that would solve this energy problem for several millennia. Let us also say that nuclear energy is interfering with this, let it be in the European Union, because I know that Germany is starting to withdraw from nuclear energy and how it is in the world overall. I know we may be haunted by various nuclear accidents, for the last time in France, but there was no damage to the nuclear part. Or we're haunted by a 1986 Chernobyl nuclear accident or Fukushima. I understand. However, all these accidents, these major nuclear accidents, or if I add the Three Mile Island power plant from 1979, where there was also an accident, it was all neglect of reactor maintenance. We know that in Chernobyl it was type RBMK 1000, which was graphite-cooled reactor that couldn't be used anywhere else because it was unstable, so it was about something else. With regard to nuclear reactors in Japan in Fukushima, these are PWR reactors, where again the Japanese company TEPCO neglected the maintenance of reactors and all other things. So it's all connected to the fact that it's not holding on. And the same was in Three Mile Island, Pennsylvania, 1979. I want to ask you how nuclear energy is incorporated there, because nuclear energy does not emit any exhalation that would somehow affect the rise in the planet's temperature. Of course, we can talk about the negative effects of radioactivity and all the other things to do with spent fuel and that kind of thing. [[11.20 hours]] Because I can't imagine we're going to find some kind of energy source in the foreseeable future, really one that could replace really coal. You know that coal burning is, in some way, at the level of electricity generation these days, I don't think it's our place, but also elsewhere in the world. Where, for example, it is often traded with emission allowances. That's another problem I outlined at the seminar, the issue of emission allowances. It can do business with them and then create a waste paradise, where one state buys emission allowances and simply swaps it in some way. This exists especially in the United States of America, this case. And that's what we call a waste paradise, that they're using this in some way, and they're getting paid hard by the carbon lobby that's involved in the process. As far as I'm concerned, of course, I welcome the Paris Climate Agreement in some way. Of course, I understand that this is a commitment for many decades in advance. Very, very forward. We don't know what's gonna happen in 10 years, we don't know what's gonna happen in a year. So this is going to be alpha and omega, if we can really keep global warming well below 2°C. We also have to add different eruptions of volcanoes, volcanoes, so it can play the other side of the coin and this process. But it is now proven that mankind has a really big impact on climate change over the last 200 years, if I publish this time period from the beginning in some way large or that industrial revolution, when coal really begins to burn in the 18th, 19th century. So the carbon increase is enormous, the planet can't completely absorb it. This new period over 200 years, scientists call it an anthropocene, it's the climate change, the change in natural conditions, so they invented this concept of anthropocene. And speaking of anthropocene, of course, we're all affecting him, but not just all of us, but most of all, he's being influenced by global players. The biggest polluters. And, of course, humanity as a whole, because the global players that started capitalist globalization put everything on endless growth, on endless consumption. It doesn't add up. There must be some balance here so that we don't really start destroying the planet to give the planet to our children, our grandsons in some kind of good condition. I can't imagine the good condition now that I see the transformations of the world that affect nature, civilization as a whole and the various natural disasters that are presented to us today and daily. Here I could use the book Ulrich Beck, a prominent German sociologist, and his Risky Society, where he points out the global risk-sharing that we are all involved in this process. Capitalist globalization is recording it even more. So I wouldn't be accused of being some kind of antiglobalist. I'm not an antiglobalist. I'm a critic of capitalist globalization. I'm an allerglobalist, looking for alternatives to capitalist globalization. I am based on various theories such as the world system of Immanuel Wallerstein or other Marxist theorists, it is known about me and I am not hiding it and I am proud to say these ideas here and I can also present them and defend them. I think it's really necessary in some way to keep the temperature well below 2°C. I believe that, of course, we alone will not prevent this from happening, preventing the largest polluters in the global economy, which is the United States, China, India and other countries that have the most inhabitants on the globe. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u11	I thank Mr Klán. Another duly logged in is the rapporteur. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u12	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that I applied to the debate before we made a change to the rapporteur post for my colleague Böhnisch. So it's a proper application. I wanted to start a debate here more than a month and a half ago. And frankly, I am somewhat surprised by my colleague Klán's extensive speech, which contained a number of interesting and stimulating ideas. He's shown us basically all the world's problems here today. And now I don't know how to handle it, but... [[Laughs, even with some other Members.]] So maybe I'll go back to what we're discussing here, the Paris Convention. Maybe I'd sum up a little bit of what's going on in there to get us back into trouble. And I'm gonna try to be quite brief, and I'm not gonna get that far. In essence, the Paris Convention should replace the existing kjótský Protocol. It concerns the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, and I see a fundamental difference there against the Kyoto Protocol that developing countries are also involved in this process, unlike the current situation. In addition, countries like China and the United States have added to this, even though there is a question of how the new administration will stand up to this, but the agreement is still there, so I see it as a clear positive. What does this mean for the Czech Republic? In principle, the Convention states in general that it needs to be reduced, or there is such an obligation to reduce the increase in global temperature below 2°C, we are measuring this to the state before the industrial revolution. For specific states, there is a development or commitment to establish national programmes or national commitments to contribute to this. So here I see what it means for the Czech Republic, i.e. We will sometimes create these very commitments in the future, but this Convention does not yet contain this. As I said, the greatest positive is that more world players and developing countries should be involved. And I think we should support that. Otherwise, I have registered here - I will not forgive the remark - the term global warming is still used here. I would be very careful about this, I would rather use the term global climate change, because it does not have to lead to all this warming as a result of this change. For example, there may also be cooling in some areas, such as changing the flow of the Gulf stream could have negative effects on Europe. But it's a matter of further development, of other models that are created. Otherwise, of course, the question is, and I take it as a relevant question, to what extent a person's activity contributes to this global climate change. No one can say 100 percent today to what extent, but there is a certain precautionary principle. And when we realize that a person has released so much carbon into the atmosphere for millions and millions of years within decades of his activity, the logic of the matter suggests that it is likely to have some effect. Of course, there were concerns from various colleagues about what impact this could have on the Czech industry. I don't really share the concerns. We must realise that today Czech factories do not mean the same as tens and dozens of chimneys spouting black smoke and tons and tons of manufactured steel. When e.g. You look at one of our most successful businesses in Mladá Boleslav, so the only source of gas emissions is the boiler room and otherwise the production is relatively clean. So I am not afraid that any future national plan, which should include the commitments of the Czech Republic, would mean any significant restriction on the Czech industry. However, I also understand the concerns of colleagues who have expressed these concerns, and we can certainly continue to talk about this during committee discussions. That's all I'm saying at this point. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u13	Thank you to the rapporteur. Another duly registered member is Mr Marek Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u14	Mr Vice-President, gentlemen of Ministers - three - on the one hand, ladies and gentlemen, part of the government and this House face the extremely important standard that we are discussing, but, at the same time, the government's representatives do not go to it, and if they are walking, the ministers who do not have much to do with it, as Minister of Transport. I would say there is one problem, Mrs Černochová has already pointed it out here. Yet this House has failed to comply with the wishes of at least industry and trade, and I think that there should be many more. That's a note... Mr. Mr. Mládek sits here, but he is no longer Minister of Industry and Trade, however sorry we may be, but at the moment we have another Minister of Industry and Trade. Note one. [[11.30 hours]] A second note to my colleague Klán through Mr President. " Global Warming Causes Global Capitalism" is a beautiful thesis. I would say global warming is due to environmental globalization. We haven't noticed anything like that yet. It's just like one big hysteria of many people employed in these fields. And it has proved repeatedly in the past that many of these people are deceiving and presenting strange and often untrue numbers. It's with a big question mark, if there's any change going on. Now, the rapporteur here tells us that there's going to be warming somewhere, maybe cooling off somewhere. Perhaps there are parts of the world where if it were to warm up, such a Siberia, it would be much better, we would have a lot of fertile land and we would not have to live on the Sahara or in these parts of Africa where life is not quite good. So it's all very controversial. I just started with these bunch of world alarmists who started in the '60s or so. Roman Club, and so-called. The theory of how there is a geometric increase in the population on Earth, but at the same time there is only an arithmetic increase in the ability to produce food, and that within ten years there will be famine and people are too much... Well, until today, it turns out it's exactly the other way around. The ability to produce food rose much faster than the population. Ten years later, they started dating oil crises. And we've already argued about it at some seminar with Minister Brabc. Forty years now, we've been hearing about how the oil is catastrophic, and by the next five years at the latest, its supplies will be enough to start a war on it. Still, surprisingly, at the end of those five years, we will always find that the supplies are profitable, that they are much bigger than they were five years ago, and that probably doesn't start a war right away. The last idea of these global alarmists is global warming and efforts at all costs to interfere with the industrial system, the heating system, the energy consumption system. The results are that so far only slightly infatuated and deranged Europe, which still tends to limit its original resources and start replacing them with some other sources, even with the hysteria that it must not be the core, or at least in most European countries, must not be the core, that we refuse to take the core as a renewable energy source. And this leads to the European energy market becoming at least problematic, becoming increasingly dependent on gas imports from countries of the former Soviet Union, building new and new pipelines, and possibly whether the wind blows or the sun shines. We have already experienced the whole problem of solarium in this Republic, which has been brought by exactly the same alarmists who wear this Paris Convention. It was the Kyoto Protocol back then. We have to stop coal burning, we have to stop oil burning, we're gonna start replacing it with something. So we have sent the landscape with beautiful windbreakers, and we have even fewer of them here than in some parts west and east of us, or we have started to plant fertile fields of solarium. If any of you feel like it's something sensible, something that's worth it, if we really feel that instead of growing in the fields of food, there's suddenly something called today. We're producing energy in those solar monsters that are really crippling, and that it's some kind of victory, so I think it's exactly the other way around that it's a huge loss that we've come to. I am simply a deep internal opponent of trying to distort the energy market and damage it in this way, otherwise I cannot say the word, to harm the European economy, the Czech economy by putting ourselves at a disadvantage in the world markets against other players. The others can make whatever they want. It shows up today and every day that this is what's happening. There's talk of the United States resigning today. I consider it very likely that Trumpův's administration, after stopping some other projects called. protection of the environment from the workshop of its democratic predecessors, so that they stop probably also ratification of the Paris Convention, respectively. its adherence. There is no doubt that other world players will respond to this, and it will only be Europe that will torture and torture itself in the fact that we need to plant more hundreds of fans and other hectares and hectares of solar panels. And the Minister knows he's downloaded his proposal so far. Anti-fossil law. But he withdrew it because if we put him on trial today in this House, virtually. public, so we're all going crazy because there's just no way it's gonna work this way anymore. It would mean such a downturn both in industry and in household consumption practices that no one would be able to defend it. And that's why the proposal withdrew. It's not like he's gonna be three years late. I think in three years' time, the company's readiness will be the same and it will be postponed again. Because the increase in alternative sources proposed in the Anti-Fossil Law would mean that we wouldn't really grow any grain or anything like that here, and we'd have solar power plants in all the fields, which, apart from blocking the landscape, I really consider them ugly and ugly on the way. So maybe so much for the more general problem, if we're even supposed to report to it. I would like to say one more thing about this, which I consider to be constitutionally important and for which I will want us to order the bill into the constitutionally legal committee as well. I was at a seminar called by the Chairman of the Environment Committee, at which the Minister was at, there was an effort to shed light on many things. But the basic key question has not been answered, because I believe that even the experts of the Ministry of Environment are unable to answer. There's always a double picture here. The contract has no immediate effect. In fact, we're not bound to it, it's like voluntary, we can sign up for whatever we want, and it doesn't tie us to anything. In addition to that transfer of 100 billion. dollars from developed countries to developing countries. But that, too, will eventually be argued in some arguing committees, and we have not yet made a commitment to that. But at the same time, it's a very important convention, because it's going to cause a drop in greenhouse gases all over the world, and that's not going to increase the general temperature and we're going to stick much better than we did before the industrial revolution. I find this approach impossible. So either it's binding us to something and it's binding the other states that signed it, then it makes sense. And then it makes sense to talk about what it obliges us to do. Or it doesn't oblige anyone to do anything, as it is sometimes interpreted and presented, but then there's no point in presuming such a contract, let each state or state. State groups establish some internal rules in which they decide whether to go the way of nuclear energy, go the way of other sources, or go the way of existing fossil fuels, which, in turn, does not create such a major problem. But the idea that this is so terribly important, because it will help everyone, but at the same time it is not binding, I find the Ministry of Environment and Government as a whole incredibly dishonest, because one of them must pay. At the same time, it cannot be true that it is noncommittal and, at the same time, that it will undoubtedly help the whole world, because everyone will be obliged. And if it's binding, and I'm a little worried that it's actually binding, at least in the fact that the pressure that will then be applied to us will be very fundamental, then the constitutional question must be answered, and that's who and what they commit to. [[11.40 hours]] The fundamental problem is that this treaty says: states commit to some reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, it does not matter whether it is 20 %, 30 % or 50 %, or they may also commit to it by a grouping of states, probably, I assume that it is so that a grouping of states can commit to some minimum restriction, and individual states could commit beyond this minimum decline to some higher one. But then I ask who's gonna tie those states up. And that's a question that's not even answered in the treaty, but it's not fatally answered in the explanatory memorandum that the Ministry and the government are submitting to us. Because, in fact, the explanatory memorandum is that the legal provision of the Paris Agreement will be within the European Commission - I will read it for sure. "However, the implementation of the Paris Agreement will require partial adjustments to EU law in the area concerned. To this end, the European Commission published the following legislative proposals on 20 July 2016: 1. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years under the general budget of the European Union. 525/2013 on the monitoring and reporting mechanism for greenhouse gas emissions and the reporting of other information relating to climate change 2016/0230..." I'm not reading these codes. '2. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). 525/2013 on the monitoring and reporting mechanism for greenhouse gas emissions and the reporting of other information relating to climate change 2016/0231. In view of the legal nature of the regulation, those provisions will also be directly effective in the Czech Republic after their adoption. As regards the joint national reduction contribution to which the Czech Republic has also applied as a member of the EU, it is based on the common objective of the European Union and its Member States, which has already been adopted by the European Council as part of the conclusions of the European Council on the Climate and Energy Policy Framework by 2030, approved on 24 October 2014.' By which we are actually told, in simple terms, it does not concern us, all of this will be approved for us by the European Commission and the European Parliament and the Czech Parliament and the Czech Government have no say in this. That is, of course, one part of the truth, I and this part of the truth agree only in part, because I think that these are things that are not to be regulated from the level of the European Parliament and the European Council, but I understand that today is such a state. At the same time, however, this treaty certainly allows us to accept some other commitments beyond European commitments. And I ask who would accept such commitments on behalf of the Czech Republic, how they would be imposed and how it would be ensured that such commitments are decided by this Parliament, and not by any sub-alternary official at the Ministry of the Environment, or possibly by governments as a whole. We've seen governments here before, and I've even been their supporter, sitting in greenery and leaving us with big ones, I'd say almost inconspicuous damage in some areas of industry or overall social functioning. Imagine that in some future government... I see it's not very interested in this hall. And I'm kind of sorry because I think that's one of the most important things we're discussing here. Compared to the things that have happened in the morning, or with the various funny things that we normally discuss here, as where driving licences may or may not be issued or what salary will be paid or will not be paid by emeritus constitutional judges, I would say that this is something that has completely different and absolutely more fundamental implications. But obviously we say not for next week, but for 5 or 10 or 15 years in advance, so the interest of the House is very small and they all feel "it's none of our business, it's going to take place behind us." [[unintelligible]] I think that the question of who has the right to bind the Czech Republic in such agreements must be resolved in the course of the discussion. Whether it's a government or whether it's a parliament. I think that's a perfectly cardinal question. It's the usual trick that we're getting today in those international treaties. In the past, international treaties used to have the character of saying "yes, we have such rights, we have such obligations and such obligations," and then they were quite complex in a constitutional way, including, for example, that. The Senate was incorruptible, had to commit to ratification, the President of the Republic was incorruptible, he had to sign, then they were applied in some way to the legal systems of individual countries and to the legal order of the Czech Republic. Now these strange contracts are being accepted, which - you commit to something, but they don't say who commits, but then, when you commit, suddenly what you commit to will be internationally enforceable, or at least internationally sanctionable. And here I think that we need to lay down a rule that the Czech Republic can have within the framework of international treaties of this nature - which undoubtedly have an impact on the whole economy - have an impact on the lawmaking system, in fact they mean that some things must be done - who can therefore bind the Czech Republic. This is, after all, a key problem that arose around deepening the integration of the European Union, that governments suddenly started - and that is why there is such a high degree of dissatisfaction both in parliaments and in individual Member States and in the population - that suddenly governments began to commit their countries within the European Union to doing something. Although it is already formally approved by the European Parliament today, but we have been in a situation many times, and we see it again today, for example, in the arms legislation, that many countries will put a yellow card, they will say it is a problem, but if it is approved at European level, by de facto decision-making executives and underlined by the dissipated European Parliament, then suddenly the individual national legislation has nothing to say about it. And I would hate to say that, after we have launched this problem in relation to the European Community and then to the European Union, which really leads to the deep crises of confidence that Europe is in today, so that we can trigger this problem to other international communities, such as the Paris Agreement, where the government can talk at some point, say: So we will be the most modern in the world, we are here accepting a commitment that the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 50 per cent will not be by 2030 or by 2050, as the European Union has told us, but will be by 2022." In the next parliamentary term, each of our successors must do so. He's going to let this be our obligation. No doubt the government is acting on behalf of the state on the outside. Undoubtedly, the government acts on behalf of the state on the outside, it does not act in Parliament, but is it really a commitment that can commit the European Republic to 5, 10, 30 years in advance? Or does it have to be a commitment that has to be passed through Parliament, to go through the approval that this treaty has to go through? [[11.50 hours]] In this I see the key constitutional danger of this material, which says: It will be binding for you, you commit, but the one who commits is not clarified. And there really isn't a word in the explanatory memorandum. It is not said at all: we have such an idea. I regret, therefore, that Minister Chvojka has already left, whom I, as President of the Legislative Council of the Government, would call on us, as well as the Legislative Council of the Government, to clarify to us how the question is with those who can commit the Czech Republic in areas that will undoubtedly require legislative action, and to what extent these commitments can be definitive for us. Thank you for your attention. I will see in the next debate whether or not I'm still going to sign up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u15	I thank Mr Benda. I have two factual points here. Firstly, the rapporteur, Mr Václav Zemek, with a factual point, followed by Mr Ivan Adamec. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u16	Thank you for the floor. I guess my colleague, Mr Marek Benda, whom I greatly appreciate, will disagree in view of the future of Czech energy, the Czech industry. I take the view that the century of steam and coal was the 19th century and we live in the 21st century, but I didn't want to talk about it. What I have to respond to, however, is that there has been a challenge to scientific research on global climate change. I just have to say no. Today, a broad platform of scientists, climate scientists, takes the united view that global climate change is taking place. Of course, the influence of a person is debatable, but the change is here, and we have to deal with it in some way. And while there are a few rejectors of the type of one of our former presidents, I repeat, the broad platform of scientists, it's proven statistical facts, it's proven that climate change exists here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u17	Thank you. Mr Ivan Adamec and his point of view. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u18	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, fellow Members, I am also one of those opponents, and I do not want to discuss this here because I would speak for about an hour, and I think that climate change as such has always been done locally. When we look into the history of our state, we see how the weather changed here. It's not unusual, it's normal. I also remember the 1970s when they told us that oil would end with the turn of the millennium, it's not true. And I would definitely respond to my colleague Benda, and, of course, I would just supplement it. I also think the ratification, virtually. The whole treaty is not impunity. I don't know the Benda, I can't imagine them, but I definitely think they will. But I wanted to add it to renewables. Centuries of couples are gone. Well, I don't know. You know, it's deformed the market for us. We all know that, we're all dealing with the problems now - solar barons, wind power plants, but we're forgetting one more problem that's connected to it, and I'd like to draw attention to that. Actually, we're the central power generation, the electric current, we've started to turn into local production. It seems very simple that nothing happens, but it does. And we have come across this recently at the Economic Committee, where Minister Mládek and the Director of the ERU came up with the need to change the system and payments for the use of grids, because it takes a huge amount of money to change these networks into intelligent networks to communicate with local sources. This is not a negligible question at all, and the distortion of the market that comes after this change will be even greater. So let's be honest. That's just the way it is! We've changed the central production for local and problems that come and come, and there have already been signs, I remember the blackouts that came from Germany a few years ago, they'll be here. [[Time warning]] And to my colleague Klána, the last sentence, I apologize, Mr President, of course we can do a thermonuclear reaction. It's a hydrogen bomb, but we don't know how to drive it, and I really wish we'd spend money on research in this area because I see the only reasonable way here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u19	Thank you. With a factual remark, Minister Richard Brabec. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u20	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to keep this in mind for my brief final words, but since I can no longer respond to this, I will not resist it, and at this point I will not be able to respond to it. I am a geologist of origin, as you may know, a fellow rapporteur, too, so we can certainly agree that in history on this planet, and even in this state, even though it was not the Czech Republic or even Austria-Hungary at the time, it was much warmer than it is now. Absolutely. Only, of course, there were species other than us, and some of them were extinct. And it could probably happen to us. But what Václav Klaus older and younger can't deny, because at least Václav Klaus older was always like a coffin for those numbers, is the fact that every year for the last 15 years he beats the temperature record of the past and it's the coolest summer in the history of temperature measurements on Earth. I think these are just facts that can't be denied in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u21	Thank you, Minister. Mr Martin Novotný, Mr Marek Benda, followed by Mr Ivan Adamec. All factual points. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u22	Colleagues and colleagues, I do not want to be involved here in the debate on the existence, causes and forms of global climate change, rather I want to say that it is crucial whether any such potential problem is better solved by humanity through mechanisms and systems that are based on innovation, technological change, human knowledge and science applied in the economy, or whether the management system is regulation, some central planning, prediction of developments and inventing regulations for decades in advance. So experience shows us that such projections do not usually work. The assumptions on which they are based result from the momentary state of knowledge and most of the reality evolves completely differently. To the debate that Mr Klán here has set up, about the guilt of global capitalism on climate change. It is simply nice to remember what the response to environmental problems was to that centrally managed, centrally planned and centrally regulated system in the form of a communist regime. Undoubtedly, the ability to adapt to development was infinitely worse and smaller than that of the bad, then non-global capitalism, which brought innovation to many and methods and ways to approach environmental issues, brought far more than the centrally planned regime. I therefore share the view of my colleague Adamec, who said one particular example that he, in the end, capitalism for ecology would be more important and more stimulating than those anti-capitalist efforts. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u23	Mr Benda and his point of order, after which Mr Ivan Adamec. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u24	Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I was surprised by the fact that dinosaurs or other followers are responsible for warming up their country and have died out. She seemed a little brave to me. I think she's very brave in her relationship to a human, but I think she's really a little over the top with those poor animals. The second sentence to what was said. Yes, maybe the last 15 years have been a little bit warmer than we've had 15 years before, but that someone would be able to say really hard it's the man's fault and the amount of carbon dioxide released into the air, so I'm not really sure. And the people who paint it say there's probably a bond, but we don't really know if it's getting close to ice time or global warming, and every couple of years they always start telling us, it's going to be the other way around. [[12.00 hours]] And then just, let's not always forget the unimaginable consequences. We've been trying to start some genius combustion here, not oil, but things that are produced in the field. Your boss is quite politely alive because he has most of the processing plants that turn rape and others into oil. No offense. It's his absolute right. But didn't we notice that the bills started burning rainforests halfway across Indonesia to extract palm oil because we were the ones who started burning oil in tanks?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u25	I thank Mr Benda. Mr Ivan Adamec and his point of view. Please be polite for two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u26	Yes, thank you, Mr President. And I will do my best, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I am glad that the Minister has spoken in the debate. We really don't like it then the final performances that we can't respond to. Appreciate it. Well, the animals, the gas discharge. I wouldn't comment. But I want to say other cases that are significantly younger and they're from when the temperature just wasn't measured because de facto it wasn't what. But you know that the first plagues in Europe came with a huge warming in the 14th century. That's one thing. Second thing. If you look at the Alps, today at the Alpine glaciers that we're running low, you'll find that there are remains or remains of Roman settlements underneath them. Does anyone want to say that the Říman were building settlements on ice? I don't think so. On the other hand, it is no longer said that icebergs may grow in New Zealand. So there really is a question for discussion. And the real change in local weather, now I mean in Europe, in Central Europe, it's always been. She always has been. And since we have historical data from the time, let's say the last thousand years, that's one way to track it, of course. But the measurements didn't exist from that time, they couldn't have existed, because they weren't thermometers at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u27	Thank you. Good noon, ladies and gentlemen. We will continue with Mr Janulík's factual remark and then Mr Karamazov duly registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u28	Thank you, Mr President. So I, by your means on Marek Benda as an echt Moravák, must say, do not produce in the field. It's grown in the field. Maybe here in Prague, but we grow in the field in Moravia. We don't make anything there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u29	Thank you for the clarification. We were still short on agritechnical deadlines. We're good to go. Mr Karamazov now. Mr. Ivan Gabal will be ready. [[Noise in the hall.]] Please calm down if you still have a discussion on another subject, please in the lobby and maintain a dignified environment for my colleague Karamazov. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard many arguments from both advocates and opponents of the ratification of the Paris Agreement. I must clearly join those who reject the whole document, and I would like to explain my opinion. It has been said several times that the agreement practically does not contain anything that the Czech Republic would no longer meet. I could therefore say that it is completely unnecessary to deal with such an agreement at all. However, we have to deal with this agreement, so allow me a short suspension over its content, or rather over its absence. The whole text of the agreement is obviously the result of many compromises and, above all, political agreements and has a very superficial character. On the one hand, it is certainly okay that an agreement of this type and scope gives significant autonomy to individual states in choosing how they want to achieve the objectives. However, if you have read the Paris Agreement carefully, you know that it does not lay down practically any specific measures. And we won't even know what the impact on our lives would be. It's an unmistakable sign that there's something wrong with the deal. By logical reasoning, we can deduce that the effects on our lives will be, and will certainly be significant. We would probably get a more specific idea if we read the draft of the upcoming so-called. Anti-fossil law. Although it is intended to be one of the main regulations closely related to the agreement, it has not yet been submitted to the Chamber of Deputies, and not even to the Government. Moreover, it follows from the available sources that even this proposal does not produce very specific numbers. So I have to ask, like some of my previous speakers - shouldn't the debate in the House be directed in this direction first? According to the Paris Agreement, global warming must be stopped, behind which greenhouse gas emissions are responsible. Is it really that simple? If we think a little bit critically and consider the fact that the description of climate development is such a complex problem that even current science will not be able to deal with yet, you must conclude that the abbreviation "more greenhouse gases equal to global warming" is at least suspicious. But more questions are being asked. Even if only greenhouse gases were beautifully behind global warming, does man really cause a significant proportion of total greenhouse gas emissions to affect global temperature? And that brings us to the most fundamental question. Is there even global warming? And if we're really watching global temperature rise in recent years, it's something unusual, or is it something that's been here in Earth's history a million times, without the existence of humanity and with it, and it's probably going to be repeated periodically, whether we like it or not? The view, which is currently best promoted by wannabe environmentalists, can be described very simply: Global warming is bad in all respects and must be prevented. The main culprits are the people who, through their activities, release such a number of harmful substances into the atmosphere, especially carbon dioxide, which is incompatible with maintaining global temperature. This must be prevented by all means. Often also very radical. In short, we can't break up the globe, and whoever disagrees, we'll spin it. Let us first focus on the very fact of global warming, especially the last two centuries, which are most mentioned. If we want to know whether the temperature increase in this period after the industrial revolution was really so radical, it is practically impossible not to get acquainted with a lot of quoted Professor Mann, respectively. his team. He contributed to the debate with a hypothesis now called Mannův's hockey stick. The theory to which everyone refers widely in their official materials follows the evolution of global temperature from the 14th century to the present. The name was given by the graph according to the similarity to the sports equipment mentioned. This shape expresses the steep increase in global temperature especially in the last two centuries, while before the industrial revolution the temperature was constant. The authors are directly linked to the increase in carbon dioxide in the air and completely ignore the fact that in historical and geological times the amount of carbon dioxide fluctuated at significantly larger intervals in both directions, and often, I stress, in conflicting tendencies. These environmental scientists merely give a hypothesis for a scientifically proven fact. They completely ignore that the same increasing trend in temperature and CO2 content observed only in a very short period - two centuries what it is - is probably random. There is sufficient evidence that this was often the case in the past. The CO2 content grew and the temperature dropped. But let's go back to global temperature itself. The important fact is that accurate temperature measurements and all the necessary technological procedures have not been available until the end of the 19th century. Data from previous years were therefore obtained by indirect, so-called Proxy methods. We rank among these methods, for example. measurement of tree circles, pollen analysis or isotope analysis of marine corals. All these methods are certainly serious scientific procedures, so it was quite appropriate to use them. As it turned out later, the methods were actually appropriately chosen, it was worse with interpretation of the results. Although the authors themselves completed their research with presentations and the subsequent enforcement of the said hockey stick, more and more scientific arguments point out that there are serious shortcomings in the results of their work. It can be said that this theory, which, however, is still referred to by Green doctrine advocates, has been convincingly and completely refuted. [[12.10 hours]] Let me give you an example from 2003. At that time, two Canadian scientists, namely Steve McIntyre and Ross McKitrick, conducted the same study as Professor Mann did before them. The difference was only in the use of data. The authors of the study found that in the original text all available data were not used, but only those suitable for the likely expected outcome. For example, only a few trees from one single area have been examined for the analysis of the summer circles. If I literally quote the contribution by Mckitricko and McIntyrea under the name The Facts, sent to the Climate Change proceedings published in 2014, it was a few pine trees somewhere in the mountains in the southwest of the United States. When all available data were used, it turned out that the current moderate temperature increase was neither historically exceptional nor worrying. Over time, many other studies appeared with the same result. I mention this above all because it reveals to us very well how the global climate debate receives and interprets data used for the subsequent drafting of contracts. In a word, fraud. That was to global warming itself. But how did the belief that CO2 emissions are the source of most of the problems? Are there any real numbers, scientifically based, that confirm this theory or disprove it? And isn't it in the end that carbon dioxide isn't nearly as harmful as it is constantly being presented to us? I've already suggested that the belief that carbon dioxide is responsible for the rise in temperature is probably a random match in a short time interval, a random match by someone very well and manipulatively used. So what are the factors that can affect global temperature? Is it really just carbon dioxide, or are there other factors? Of course they exist. And we rightly need to ask whether these other factors that affect our climate can be completely eliminated. I can quote here, for example, Miroslav Kutílek, a longtime university teacher dealing with hydropedology. In his work on climate change, Professor Kutílek describes, among other things, eight main factors that are historically and currently responsible for climate change. These factors are: different cycles of solar activity, changes in the Earth's magnetic field, continental drift, astronomical factors, change in the direction and strength of sea currents, impact of asteroids on Earth, existence and frequency of vegetation, greenhouse gases. It must be added that we count many different gases between greenhouse gases, not just CO2, but also methane, nitrogen oxides, water vapour and others. These factors thus affect and continue to affect the climate in which we live. There are various other studies that even present factors much more, but I mentioned at least the essential ones. The temperature changes, and I'm not even talking about the fact that they're not always upwards, are caused by a number of factors. In this context, Professor Kutílek points out, in particular, that although we cannot blame all eight factors for the changes at this time, it is a grave mistake to make the opposite, namely to choose only one factor and to boldly determine the average global temperature based on it. That, of course, is exactly what is happening now. As you can see, there are many ways in which we can go about studying this problem. I have presented some of the arguments to you here and, of course, it would be possible to continue this spirit. However, I believe that it is no longer necessary to talk long enough about why I am increasingly convinced that this is primarily about the political and other interests of the various actors. That we are dealing with nothing but ideologically tuned material that uncritically accepts only facts that fit someone's business plan. Finally, let us go back one more time to the text of the Paris Agreement. I mentioned the difficulties that we can encounter here if we try to interpret some of its parts. Partial doubts and objections to the clarity of the text submitted have already been raised here. This does not mean that the subject is exhausted. On the contrary, the text of the agreement is more than rich for such surprises. Delegates to the Paris Conference consider that one of the main reasons why the Paris Agreement must be adopted is the need for greater active participation by all countries, i.e. that, unlike the situation brought about by the agreement of the Kyoto Protocol, so-called developing countries will also participate in reducing the increase in global temperature. But what we see in the final form of the text is the exact opposite. I'll quote directly from the Paris Agreement. Paragraph 1 of Article 4 shall read: "In order to achieve the long-term temperature objective set out in Article 2, the Parties shall endeavour to reach the peak of global greenhouse gas emissions as soon as possible, with the agreement of the Parties to developing countries taking a little longer to achieve this objective, and thereafter, according to best available scientific knowledge, they shall rapidly reduce emissions in order to strike a balance between anthropogenic emissions from sources and reducing greenhouse gases by means of sinks in the second half of this century, on the basis of equality and following sustainable development and efforts to eradicate poverty.' It could therefore be said that the new treaty does not only increase the responsibility of states such as China and India but even marginalizes it. Together, these two countries produce about a quarter of the total share of emissions. However, if these countries first increase their standard of living and then begin to solve the problems they cause, it is further proof that the treaty does not make much sense, on the contrary, it can be harmful in some way. Moreover, in a situation where it is not clear whether the United States, which is one of the key signatories to this Agreement, will withdraw from it, it appears to me that the adoption, if any, is completely absurd and at least premature. It is noteworthy that, at a time when our House is discussing this proposal, the US, under the newly acting president, is heading for the completion of two new pipelines. One of his other decisions then aims to support the American industry, including the automobile industry. The latest information even talks about supporting fossil fuels and increasing the emission limits of carbon dioxide. Although I have not yet noticed that Donald Trump has made a definitive decision regarding the Paris Agreement, there is a lot to conclude from his actions. Pondering the possibility of resigning other signatories, perhaps based on inspiration in the US, is probably not yet appropriate. However, even if the United States were to leave, despite the different attitude of other countries, the legitimacy of the agreement would be significantly distorted. Finally, let me sum up the basic facts. First of all, we have a vague and very unspecific text in front of us on many points, hiding a few unpleasant surprises. Secondly, the Paris Agreement does not even contain the objectives which the Treaty advocates so loudly declare. Thirdly, one of the world's major polluters, the United States, is likely to withdraw from the treaty, and for the other two, China and India, the treaty will not even de facto be valid. Therefore, I do not see many reasons why we, as a country belonging to those developed, should commit ourselves to the supposedly necessary eradication of something that we, as a small country, have a negligible share in. For a specific idea, it's about three tenths of a percent. And finally, fourthly, the direction in which the agreement leads us is presented as the only correct, based on scientifically verified facts and a confirmed hypothesis. The opposite, however, is true. Scientifically verified is nothing at all, and this is totally unacceptable for such essential material. Does it not seem to you that these practices do nothing with the most radical directions of different religions? After arguments and hypotheses are presented to us, we should automatically submit them to critical analysis on a truly scientific basis. But in the case of global warming, it is the opposite. It seems that we have only one socially acceptable option - to believe the arguments infinitely or to accept them uncritically at the end of the day. Those who try to look at the matter with their own eyes, using their own sense and especially with interest in all the information available, are considered conspiracy theorists or irresponsible fools who do not appreciate our common environment. [[12.20 hours]] Despite these pitfalls, I would very much like to appeal to the fact that, at least here in the Chamber of Demagogues of Deputies, we are not afraid to look at the problem of knowledge of all relevant data and contexts. My position on the Paris Agreement is quite clear. This document must be categorically rejected. Simply because it aims to promote everything possible, but certainly not a better environment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u31	I thank Mr Simeon Karamazov, and before we continue with the debate announced, I note that Mr Michal Kučera, who is also reporting on the factual point, is voting with the replacement card number 75 today. Before I give him my word, I state the apologies received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, from 10.45 to 11.30 for working reasons Karel Fiedler, then for the whole day instead of 12.00, Mr Birke apologizes and also from 14.30 Mr Josef Novotný. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u32	Thank you for the floor. I have to respond a little to the words of my previous speaker, who read us a rather slightly demagogical speech on several sides, in order to invite us not to succumb to demagogy in the last two sentences. I'm quite impressed. It kind of feels like we want to stay here in some century of steam, that we want to mine coal, drown in the boiler and make steam, and that this is our future. I have to say no, and, of course, I'm rejected by the entire TOP 09. I mean, and I have already talked about it several times, that the climate change that the Paris Conference is responding to also brings opportunities. And if you don't care about the environment, many, then at least look at it from the point of view of business. These opportunities are business if we move forward to increase energy efficiency, to focus on energy savings, and these are steps that clearly contribute to reducing climate change or combating climate change, so this business is a high-value business. And if we decide to invest in it in some way, if we decide to support it, if we give it legislative support, if we give it to it by the state, it can really be the engine of our economy. And I wouldn't really underestimate energy savings, energy efficiency. And the Paris Agreement is one of the impulses for us to start this business, which is high value added, about energy efficiency, energy savings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u33	Mr. Ambassador, thank you. We still have two factual points, Mrs Černochová and Mrs Zahradník. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u34	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to ask a colleague of yours not to insult anyone here. Demagogy is what we hear most from him. I think that this House could be wallpapered by Mr Kučera's demagogical remarks. Each of us here has an opinion that he can say publicly, and I really consider what Mr Kučera here has just shown that he is already a lot behind the edges. We know that we do not agree with the parties to the Paris Agreement from the very beginning, so kindly allow us to retain our opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u35	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Zahradník, also with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u36	Mr Vice-President, it is a typical reaction of those who have a close idea of what follows, whether the idea is political or scientific. Professor Karamazov has presented some fairly well-known and documented opinions that question the dogma we are trying to accept about the global warming that has been caused by the people. This is, of course, something that does not smell like environmental ideology and climate alarmism, which says otherwise. There is also evidence that some research, which is among the basic equipment of those who proclaim the existence of climate change and global warming, has been falsified. Somewhere something was hidden, somewhere something was added. Of course, this ideology is being taken over by some political parties, an environmental ideology, which has so far been held by the Green Party, so now it is accepted by the TOP 09, where we are witnessing its significant greening. What Mr Kučera said that TOP 09 supports is evidence or indicator that TOP 09 significantly green.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u37	I thank Mr Zahradník for his time. Mr Kučera, once again, claims a point of fact. My colleague Gabal is on hold. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u38	Thank you for the floor. I am very sorry to hear from my previous speaker, Mrs Černochová, especially because it is on the part of her that the words on environmental terrorists, environmental jihadists, on demagoses are being heard. I merely responded to Mr Karamazov's speech, who was just talking about the demagogy, who said that we should not succumb to one party's demagogy and that we should listen to his party. My performance was merely a reaction to the conclusion of the speech, where he directly attributed the demagogy to one party. There's no way I wanted to touch anyone in person. If that's what I did, I apologize to him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u39	Thank you. We've exhausted the factual points. Mr Ivan Gabal is duly enrolled in the debate, he has the floor. A colleague, Grospič, will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u40	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I will try to be very brief, and I would rather give you a few things to consider. First of all, anyone who joins can watch the Thomson Reuters News. Yesterday in Antarctica, the measured temperature reached 17.5 degrees. At 90 percent of frozen fresh water, if it thaws, our levels will rise by about 60 meters. It's pretty much argued in detail and it's quite interesting to imagine what would happen then, or what would be melting. But that's just to the edge. It's a really distinctive temperature record. As for... Of course, I can't test here with your honored professors from statistics whether they can or can't explain the variation and use the explained variation, but the models are about the different factors that cause the variation of temperature movement, and the model has been systematically showing a significant statistically significant contribution from human activity in recent years. If it's 2 %, 3 % or 1 %, we can have fun. But there's a statistically significant contribution to human activity. I don't have that professorship, I've had statistics for a few semesters, I've only done it for a few years, and I don't even know how to read those models. I'll ask Bedřich Moldan to send it to you, and you can take a look at it. It's a pretty interesting math thing, pretty routine. It's the first test in the stats. [[12.30 hours]] As for the next thing that's important, we'll go from statistics to law school. Article 7 of our Constitution says: The State takes care of the gentle use of natural resources and the protection of natural wealth. I don't know if the drinking water is or isn't natural wealth, whether the Constitution pays or whether it's taught in Pilsen in law school or not. But consider that we have it in the Constitution. That means we're talking about a constitutional parameter in this matter. And then the last one. As someone who lives in Africa with one foot, I can call myself Afričan. So if you don't mind, we Afričan are a little surprised to see you Evropan taking the climate change and the warming lightly. Because there are really millions and millions of people who are drying it out under their hands, the cattle are dying, the fields are drying up, and those who are just moving north, probably to Europe. So even if it were only a probability, even if we had a small chance of such a contract and subsequent activities, which your colleague Kučera mentioned here through you - do we want to risk it? You fly through the Sahara for five hours, men and women will pass. They don't need planes to get here. So do we want to take that chance? Who wouldn't believe, so I recommend and invite you to Namibia, there's a lot of Max Planck and NASA labs that measure the impacts of climate change on local things, on the soil, on the air, on the movement of aerosol clouds, on everything that goes south to Antarctica and north, where the fields are drying up. Look at the demographic situation of those countries involved. Now in one part of Africa it rains as it never and in another El Niño has changed and shifted seasons and it doesn't rain there at all and there are tens of millions of people starving, in a humanitarian crisis already. Are we going to take this into consideration, or are we not going to take that into consideration? Of course, the people, the millions - it's demagogy, it's ideology, it's alarmists. Last year and last year, we just tasted a little crisis migration. This would be-- it would be far more massive. [[There's a constant noise in the hall.]] Personally, I think that, of course, whether in the development funds invested in those countries, in their local water management, with land, rescue and so on - of course it is not 100% successful, of course a lot is lost, stolen etc. But should we try, or shouldn't we try? Can we thicken the population in Europe? We're gonna be short, okay, so we're gonna hire 40, 50 million people, right? Of course, I'm probably wrong. But what if I'm not wrong? Shouldn't we be more careful? If we're gonna talk like that? The climate agreement is negotiated by Europe. For me, the argument that the United States may be considering stepping down from it is a strong argument to support it rather than abandon it. Not because we should or shouldn't let the Američan tell us what to do or not. But Europe is a headquarters that is interested in giving Africa water, a field, and to sustain and support its people, in particular, and to help do so. Compared to those countries where you can move, even in the safe southern part, in the sub-Saharan part, we are extremely rich. If we want to secure our wealth, we must invest and do what the European security strategy says. Only when they are stable and have a relatively good time will we be safe. And one last thing. As I attended a few lectures at different South African universities, not that I lectured, I listened to it there to meet, a series of performances by my previous speakers would make African students laugh today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u41	I thank Mr Ivan Gabal. Mr Jan Zahradník and Mr Grospič are now duly registered, with a factual remark from Mr Jan Zahradník and Mr Grospič, once the factual remark from Mr Jan Zahradník has passed. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u42	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Gabal here just now drew attention to Section 7 of the Constitution and to the need to save natural resources, and he also emotionally called for a great deal of precautionary measures. Of course, he meant caution on a global scale. The amendment of the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act was approved here yesterday in this House, as well as the votes of his and his political party KDU-ČSL, which legally introduces the wilderness in the majority territory of the national parks, i.e. Šumava. The Šumava until recently was the green roof of Central Europe, an important reservoir of water. Now after a similar procedure in 2007 Sumava is drying up and its water accumulation capacity is disappearing. If there is an over-half non-image, all of Sumava may also be dry. And now Mr. Gabal can say that it's my kind of Sumava alarmism, and say, it's not going to happen, it's not possible, it's not true. But I, too, call for caution. I have called for this in vain throughout the negotiations of the law. The government coalition added 78 votes to the 100 yesterday, another party including the communists another couple, i.e. 94, supplied the rest to the TOP 09. So the Šumava law went through the TOP 09 votes, unfortunately. [[President: Mr President, you have made a point of fact.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u43	Thank you. One more point in fact, Mr. Ludvík Hovorka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u44	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I listened very carefully yesterday to the debate on the law on the conservation of nature and landscape, and I think that my colleague, Mr Junek, spoke very clearly about what Mr Zahradník, mentioned here. He said that it is also necessary to look at maps of the Hydrometeorological Institute and his records of water supplies, including in Sumava. And so if we're talking about the fact that lower water levels have also fallen in Sumava, it's certainly not just the credit or the impact of barking calamity on Sumava, but it's the reason that it was simply dry and the level of groundwater has fallen throughout the territory, even in Sumava. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u45	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Stanislav Grospič, duly enrolled in the debate, will prepare his colleague Petr Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u46	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable members of the government here, I would like not to delay you too much, but I have been led by the reflection that has been made here by my previous speaker, Mr Benda, that this treaty and its discussions should also be brought to the level of the constitutionally-legal committee. In a way, I am leaning towards the idea, because when I look at the way in which the Paris Agreement is legally implemented, I think we will definitely agree on the need for such an agreement in all those threats, the need to reduce greenhouse gases, the retention of water in the countryside, and so on and so on. However, I think that from the point of view of the mechanism, the agreement is very vague, regardless of whether all states or some states such as the United States of America have joined it mostly, are considering ultimately not ratifying the treaty and resigning from it. So here is a role that will bind us in relation to the European Union and translate into our legal order. From this point of view, I am quite sorry that the explanatory memorandum in the press presented to us in the Chamber of Deputies is somewhat different from the explanatory memorandum in the press submitted to the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. I am quite interested in what led the government to these reasons, whether it has any other, divided opinion about it, which means that something else is being defended in another way and the ratification and internal mechanism for implementing the Paris Agreement, if we therefore agree to its ratification in the Czech Republic, in relation to the second Chamber of Parliament of the Czech Republic, to the Senate, and if another interpretation arises in relation to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. I consider the problem to be very serious and I do not want to downplay it, because at some point it would mean that we would ratify this agreement, but at that point the matter would fully go into the power of executives, that is to say, the power of the executive, by virtue of the European Commission, and the Czech Republic would lose one of the other moments to express itself fully as a sovereign state to these very serious problems, which, after all, my previous speaker mentioned, concern the territory of the Czech Republic and, for example, the already mentioned Šumava and Šumava National Park. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u47	I thank Mr Stanislav Grospič. We have two factual points before Mr Bendl's speech, namely Mr František Laudát and Pavel Antonín's de facto remark. Now, then, Mr František Laudát, with a point of fact. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm watching the debate here. It makes me a little sad. We already have politicians whose life-long theme is likely to be the shape of the Šumava National Park. It's starting to remind me a little bit of the famous passages from the book of How I won the war, when the general concerned, whatever it was and had the exercise for, always returned to his beloved Afghánec. But quite seriously now. Please, the fact that groundwater reserves in the Czech Republic are falling is a fact. This is due not only to the change in the nature of the landscape caused by inappropriate farming, but as average annual temperatures increase, there is a greater vaporization of water into the atmosphere. We don't talk much about this phenomenon. Mr. President has been telling us things that are very out of order on this matter. The Czech Republic has enough groundwater only in the areas of the Czech chalk basin and a few localities, otherwise everywhere else it is actually subsurface water resulting from rainfall, which is the main donor of river systems in the territory of the Republic in the event of rain rainfall reduction. And, unfortunately, Šumava belongs in this category. Whether there was a barking tree or not, it's secondary because it doesn't have that kind of influence, and in what form it is preserved there, or doesn't preserve the forest vegetation, because the primary reasons are somewhere else. But it would be good if not only Mr. President, but also other people bought a little bit of professional literature from our top institution, which is the Czech Geological Service, it was under the Ministry of Industry and Trade by the way, and his institute then came to transfer to the Ministry of Environment years ago. Please try asking the question there so that we don't deceive the public. And the attitude of some parties. You know, when we get a sticker on how green the top is, I personally confess Margaret Thatcherová's policy. That was the first lady to say and use the term, if I'm not mistaken, global warming. And I'm applying to prereagan conservative politicians in the United States. Most of them were their presidents who actually started promoting and declaring protected territories, nature reserves, national parks. So please compare your values.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u49	Mr. Ambassador, you have made a point of fact. You're trying my patience. Mr Pavel Antonín also made a point of fact. I don't see him. The application's expired. Mr Jan Zahradník, Mr Marek Benda, with a point of fact, followed by Mr Marek Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u50	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to comment on what my colleague Laudát said about the water balance at the beginning of his performance. He was only talking about the water level. I have at my disposal records of levels and flows of Šumava rivers since 1859. They show that whenever there are changes in the forestation of Šumava, when either there is some passive deforestation or when it happens just as we are now witnessing, there is a gradual drying of ever larger and larger Šumava territory, that there is a drop in the levels of Šumava rivers, but there is an increase in the intensity and frequency of extraordinary phenomena, i.e. flood conditions on these Šumava rivers. This was recorded in the second half of the 19th century, after the crusty calamity of Klostermannovsky, actually after the deforestation of Šumava. And this is also recorded in the last decade, when 20,000 hectares of Sumava have dried up and it is possible that hundreds and thousands of hectares will continue to dry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u51	I thank Mr Zahradník. Mr Marek Benda's point of view. Please, sir, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u52	Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to respond a little to my colleague Gabal, whom I... said that all these ideas are just the ideas of different scares. The idea that this treaty, this convention that deals with whether or not the temperature will rise by 1.5 degrees or 1.7 degrees in 30 years, which is the debate we're having here and which some of us aren't sure if it's even legitimate and whether it makes any sense at all, but that's the debate that's going on. If we feel this will solve the current problems of Africa, the migration wave in Africa or something, then I really don't understand what we're talking about. That's what I think is typical of the alarmism. I have no doubt there are states in Africa where there are problems. More often, these are countries that are broken up by internal administration, various senseless socialist and other attempts that lead to no internal governance. But if we really think that the situation in 30 years, and if the temperature rises by 1.5 or 1.7, solves the current migration crisis and migration wave, I think we're making fun of each other.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u53	I thank Mr Marek Benda. Mr Petr Bendl has now duly signed up for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, colleagues, colleagues, I don't know which one of you has actually read the entire Paris Convention and detailed it. Those of you who have read it know that it is full of words such as mitigation, adaptation, global evaluation, implementation, but nothing concrete, in the form of which adaptation, what concrete measures will apply to us, is not in the Convention. I think, both for those of you who applaud the Paris Convention and who are possibly skeptical, the information that should be added to this treaty could be far more relevant, and that is how we will apply the Paris Convention specifically to the Czech legislation and the economic environment as a whole, because we are undoubtedly committed to certain restrictions on forest management, certain restrictions on agriculture, but also, of course, in the Czech industry. And I think we should have the right to know what concretely converted into legislation on us by the Ministry...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u55	I understand that, Mr. Ambassador. I'm going to try to keep you calm. I promise everyone I'll call a lunch break at 1:00. I therefore ask that you allow my colleague Petr Bendl to make his remarks on the Paris Agreement in a calm and dignified environment. If there's anything else you want to discuss, please, in the lobby, whether it's colleagues from your club or from other MPs. Thank you. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u56	I think that we have the right to know what specific measures are being turned from the Paris Convention to cover the Czech legislative environment and how they will relate to forest management, what this will mean in practice for forest owners, what it will mean in practice for agricultural farmers. I think it would be very unfair if there was no such thing anymore if the Czech Republic made a commitment to approve such a convention so that we were no longer legally clear what it would mean. I think that both the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture must have an idea of how it will start to limit the management of these areas. And it would be fair if we had a draft of legislative measures on our table that would be brought about by the Paris Agreement. Because if there are no legislative measures, then we're actually talking about this whole thing for nothing, because it's just a slap in the air, and it doesn't really matter, and it doesn't have any impact. And what is fair to say, what we are actually supposed to be helping with and that it is not only the funds to which the Czech Republic commits to this agreement, which it will send to finance the Authority, which it will assess, control, or propose sanctions to individual countries, which may not meet the conditions of the Paris Agreement as a whole. And then, of course, there are funds that we should send to countries that do not belong to developed countries, but are among the least developed countries in the world. I don't want to look like a person who doesn't want to help the needy. But I would much prefer that there should be some amount of money in the state budget, which we will also specifically help in the areas referred to here by Mr Gabal. Because I do not believe in the redistribution system that the Czech Republic will send some funds and that someone else will send them to someone else and that someone else will install them, invest in less developed countries. I do not believe in the effect in this regard and I am rather a supporter of the funds we are supposed to help, whether they help the state, and not at the expense of limiting the management of the areas I have talked about, whether it concerns forests or agriculture, but also of course significantly our other companies in the field of engineering or other types of industry, as this will affect them and they will apply it. Now we're just going to tell them that we're going to limit them in the future, and I wish the Ministry of the Environment and the Department of Agriculture had the courage to tell us what it is. What they will want from the Czech economy and companies in the Czech Republic to limit. What are these adaptation measures going to be in practice? And how do we defend ourselves against them? Because in that convention, if you read it carefully, it is also said that then it is necessary for those who will participate in the Paris Agreement, so we will probably create some grant titles at European level or at mandatory level, for example, the Czech Republic, and we will create other and other subsidy systems to deal with losses, because that is also what we are talking about in the agreement. Losses that cause global warming in the economy and so on. This seems so unspecific at the moment and rather misleading to the sense of a kind of salami method. Today, we will adopt a treaty in which it is difficult to navigate without knowing the specific measures that the government, when recommending this treaty... does not have on the table. And then all of a sudden we find that we will be presented with legislative measures and argued: Well, you approved it! We made a commitment to this in the Paris Convention, so you have to approve, whether you like it or not. And I want to know what it is about, and I want to know it in advance, and I don't want the future parliament, which will work here in some form in a few months, to get into a situation: Well, you have already approved the treaty before us, and you are obliged now, because we, as the Czech Republic, have committed ourselves to it, are obliged to approve the legislative measures that the government is proposing to you. As we often do in the Brussels agenda. Brusel will approve something, and we have to accept the agenda here. We're not in this situation right now. We have enough time to know legislative measures. And I would ask the Minister of the Environment very much if he goes through this proposal at first reading to prepare, or at least publish, whether they have anything at all, but because the Paris Convention is to be paid or we are to apply to it and it is to be operational from 2020, I suspect, and we are in one quarter of 2017, then it would probably be appropriate that we have such an idea and that we know what the Czech Republic as a whole is going to contribute to solving global warming and gas reduction. [[Permanent noise in the hall.]] [[12.50 hours]] My colleague Gabal here was talking about possible migration from Africa. And I have to say that when we have been on a business trip with the committee several times in different countries, I confirm that this is very much talked about and it is a matter that is probably not going to miss Europe regardless of the Paris or non-Paris agreement. That is why I would rather - and this is towards the members of the government coalition - support, if there are concrete projects, let us make a contribution from the state budget, where we will save, and let us support specific things rather than send funds somewhere and actually can no longer decide how they will be or will not be dealt with in the future, because I consider this to be inspecific and, in fact, a little bit from the perspective of our taxpayers, those who are involved in fulfilling the state budget as unfair. I'm not saying we're not ready for this kind of help. We're ready for it, and if you come up with it, believe me, we'll support it if it's concrete projects. This seems too incomprehensible to us, and it's hard to fight for.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u57	I thank Mr Petr Bendl and interrupt item 209 in the general debate before Mr Jan Zahradník's speech. I'm declaring a break until 2:30 p.m. when we're going to deal with oral interpelations that have been drawn. The order of the interpelations is on your desks. So, enjoy your meal and I'm looking forward to seeing you this afternoon.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-005-209.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, it is 14.30 p.m. and we will continue this House meeting point
