ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-005-020.u1	20. Government bill amending Act No. 99/1963 Coll., Civil Code of Procedure, as amended, Act No. 292/2013 Coll., on special court proceedings, as amended, and some other laws / House print 987/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, the bill submitted will be presented by the Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-005-020.u2	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, I have already presented this proposal in detail in the first reading, and because I want to leave as much room for discussion as possible in the second reading, but at the same time I would like us to finish this, so very briefly. It is a comprehensive amendment to the procedural rules in the field of civil procedural law, where we meet the application practice of implementing, say, technical changes that have proved necessary in practice or even necessary. We are trying in some way to regulate the idea of things on the Supreme Court, which is overloaded in the current state, implement European Court of Human Rights judgments and strengthen with the help of so-called. the automatic generator of the assignment of cases right to a legal judge. For starters, I think that's enough, and then in the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-005-020.u3	Thank you. We ordered the proposal in the first reading to be discussed by the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 987/1 and 987/2. I ask that the rapporteur of the constitutional committee, Mr Lukáš Pleticha, take the floor, inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Mr Pleticha is not present and I will ask Mr Tejc to represent him and give us the opinion of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-005-020.u4	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer briefly to the press 987/2, which contains the resolution of the constitutionally legal committee No 304 of 20 April 2017. We have adopted a number of amendments, in substance, to the judicial fee in matters of liability of the State for damage, to the possibility of allowing videoconferencing equipment in civil proceedings, today it is possible to do so in criminal proceedings. We have also adopted technical arrangements so that it is possible to respond to a substantive change which concerns interest on late maintenance for a minor who has been adopted in connection with the new Civil Code. A change has also been adopted concerning legal charges for summons and also changes in the case of summons, respectively. It shall provide for the withdrawal of the proposal, the unfoundedness of the summons and the time limit for the resolution. These are the basic things on which the Constitutional Committee has spoken. And I would then come forward no longer as rapporteur until a detailed debate on further proposals relating to the very discussed generator of the distribution of individual matters, i.e. the automatic distribution of cases to judges. This matter will certainly be discussed in the third reading and at the meeting of the guarantee committee, as there are several options of possible procedure, and therefore I would leave it to the debate in the committee or at the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-005-020.u5	Thank you. Be sure to sign up for the debate, Mr. Ambassador. I am opening a general debate in which I am registering one application, Mr Martin Plíšek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-005-020.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, dear colleagues, I would first like to comment on the amendment itself in the general debate and then justify two amendments. I must say, and by interrupting the previous point, we have seen that the current government, instead of fulfilling its commitment and presenting new modern procedural rules, which will improve, make effective and, above all, speed up the legal proceedings, including the Civil Procedure Code, so here it presents one amendment to the Code of Civil Procedure after another, resolves completely unrelated matters in a disproportionate manner, and, as I mentioned in my comments on the Public Benefits Act, this remains a big debt for the next parliamentary term. And if one of the citizens feels that justice or judicial proceedings do not work effectively, quickly and often simply, then of course he can also thank the current Minister of Justice. I want to justify and present two amendments here, because, unfortunately, instead of submitting new procedural rules, the Minister is still coming up with various experiments from my point of view point of view pointless. And one of them is precisely the provision misleading so-called. automatic generator of the selection of the legal judge. [[12.20 hours]] So my amendment is aimed at releasing these provisions that are related to the introduction of the automatic generator. I'll say in a nutshell why. Mainly because this has not been properly discussed with the representation of the courts, with individual courts. On the contrary, they criticised the unpreparedness, both factually and technically, of this new system. I can't imagine this being introduced without some more general consensus on the power of the court. Moreover, the justification given by the Ministry of Justice that corruption works in the allocation of individual cases within specific courts and judges is extremely unfair and, above all, untrue. If there are problems in any particular courts with the assignment of the case and the order of the hearing, this should always be dealt with quite specifically, not introduce a new system. Unfortunately, this is already the infirmity of this government - if it can't cope with specific enforcement against specific entities or people, it will burden everyone else and think it will solve the matter. It won't. I would also like to quote the statements of the representatives of the Supreme Court, the Supreme Administrative Court, the representatives of the Judging Union, as well as the regional courts. I think they are quite representative subjects for us to consider carefully in the third reading whether we are really going to introduce this generator into our legal order or in what form. According to judicial officials, it is not clear why a new system should be introduced when the existing system operates practically without any problems. As I mentioned, there have been or are specific problems, but these can be addressed by quite specific measures without implementing this system. Justice representatives are afraid of technical implementation of the whole system. By the way, the technical solutions, or various IT projects, are not very successful in implementing the current Ministry of Justice, and therefore we should not really take this path. And, as I mentioned, the Ministry of Justice did not quite, or practically, discuss the actual functioning of the case with the representatives of the courts before they even submitted the proposal. There are therefore clear, logical arguments, which means that there is no consideration at all that an electronic generator - or we cannot imagine that an electronic generator will ensure an even distribution of those cases, i.e. an even burden on judges if the individual matters are so different in scope, complexity and number of defendants. Therefore, it cannot be viewed only from the technical point of view that a generator divides cases and cases, regardless of how complex and in what number they are against individual judges. This means that there is some kind of finished solution, which is also imperfect and whose technical implementation is in great doubt. And that is why I propose, and then in a detailed debate, I will sign up for the proposal that the automatic generator is launching. I add that there are other amendments, or there were those on the committee that said: let us do this only for one type of procedure, e.g. for insolvency proceedings. But I also consider it non-systemic, because why is it for one type of management, and for all the others, yes? This means, if this matter is not discussed, if it does not have broad support, as in my view, that it does not have such views, as it is conceived in this proposal, broad support, then I do not think that we should introduce such experiments at the end of the parliamentary term. My second amendment, to which I will then sign up in a detailed debate, aims to ensure that, not only the annulment of the arbitration agreement, but also in the proceedings for the annulment of the arbitration award under Part Four of the Arbitration Act, the competent regional court was at first instance. Allow a short explanation. The main reason for the change of jurisdiction is, inter alia, the fact that the proceedings for the revocation of arbitration awards and the invalidity of arbitration agreements constitute a kind of review or appeal against an arbitration award, which is also apparent for the reasons for the revocation of the arbitration award provided for in the arbitration law. It is also necessary to point out the amendment to the Arbitration Act itself, which has become effective since 1 December 2016, and which has now ruled out the conclusion of arbitration agreements between the consumer and the entrepreneur, thus excluding disputes from agreements concluded between the entrepreneur and the consumer from decisions in arbitration. This amendment can therefore be seen as an expression of the legislator's will for consumer protection in arbitration as a weaker Contracting Party. It follows, therefore, that this procedure, which I propose in my amendment, is therefore more logical. In particular, in view of the technical complexity of the matter constituting a kind of review of the arbitration procedure and an appeal against the arbitration finding, it is appropriate to leave the decision on these matters to the regional courts which have decided on these issues before the harmonisation amendment to the Civil Procedure Code since 1992 and which are also competent for the decision on appeals against decisions of the District Courts. Another substantial reason for the change of jurisdiction in the case of annulment proceedings, arbitration agreement and termination proceedings is the foreign context of the modification in the selected states of the European space, respectively. States with which we are associated with similar historical developments in the field of law and legal science. Such states are undoubtedly the Republic of Austria or the Federal Republic of Germany. In the Federal Republic of Germany, the Supreme Court, like in the Czech Republic, is the third article of the judicial system, is responsible for these proceedings for the annulment of the arbitration award as a single appeal. And one of them is precisely the provision misleading so-called. automatic generator of the selection of the legal judge. In the Republic of Austria, the regional court, which, as in the Czech Republic, is the second article of the judicial system, was competent in the proceedings for the annulment of the arbitration decision by 2013, and the subsequent amendment established the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court, which, as in the Czech Republic, is the fourth and highest article of the judicial system, since 2014. So many justifications for my amendments, which I will then sign up for in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-005-020.u7	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. I will read the apologies: from 11.30 to the end of the day of urgent duty within the Ministry of the Interior, Minister Milan chovanec apologizes, from 12.00 for reasons of work Mr Karel Pražák apologizes, from 12.00 to the end of the day for personal reasons Mr Komárek apologizes, from 12.00 to the end of today's meeting Mr Milan Šarapatka apologizes and from 12.15.00 for reasons of discussion Mr Martin Lank apologizes. Mr Marek Benda, who has been duly applied for, will now appear. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-005-020.u8	Mr Vice-President, Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I see that it is Friday afternoon after 14 days of meeting and that we are really all a little tired of this, so I will try not to keep you for too long. And I have no reason to brake this bill in any fundamental way and prevent it. I wanted more or less to sign up for what my colleague Plíšek said in quite detail about the onom generator, which I know is that the Ministry has a deep mind, but the dissent in the judicial system, absolutely across the judicial system, is so crucial that at this point, I think it would be a huge mistake to accept the generator. [[12.30 hours]] Concerns about the centralisation of data collection are also very fundamental within the judicial system and I think that we should then support the proposal by Mr Plíšek or Mr Tejc, who is also entered in a detailed debate and will give a lecture, I suppose, similar or moderated proposal to cancel the generator. I applied here more or less at the moment I saw that Radek Vondráček's application, which did not come forward in the general debate, had landed in a detailed debate, was not going to defend his proposal. But since I know what is in it, because the proposal has already been made by another Member on the Constitutional Legal Committee once, and today it is in the system and once the Constitutional Legal Committee has rejected it, I would just like to say briefly and briefly that I do not recommend that, in the context of a second reading which is still under way as in this House atmosphere, we approach proposals that quite fundamentally change the powers of the authorities of state, without it coming relevant from the government, without really quantifying what it will cost. And that it's going to cost something, it's quite, quite obvious. Unfortunately, in the Justice Department, we're like a notorious delay in a whole bunch of things. On Wednesday, we discussed this with Mrs Válková's amendment to the previous amendment to the Law on Advocates, where free legal aid was being caught up, which was also to be from the government workshop, and it was clear that it would not be able to make it. But what is happening now is that one whole part of the recovery of claims from the current model, let's say, divided by the judicial system - the courts themselves enforce something, they enforce something through the Customs administration, or through the bailouts - suddenly to Customs with me a very imperfect and definitely non-compliance with the RIA and not fulfilling the other parameters of the justification. I would like to ask that we consider very much at third reading whether there are things to happen that will mean further demands on the state budget - and they are quite clear and I think that they are very incalculable, or I would like to repeat in third reading the calculations that are at risk - without having a clear and unambiguous government position on this, and for it to be some process that goes somewhere, and it was not just a one-time, random shot. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-005-020.u9	I also thank you and ask if anyone else is joining the general debate. I don't see anyone. In that case, I conclude the general debate and ask whether, at this point, the appellant or rapporteur wants to take the final floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-005-020.u10	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, just a very brief response to the last speech of my dear fellow Member, Mr Benda. This is not far-reaching, at least in our opinion, change in competence to explain it to the uninformed. The point is that we sometimes have some outstanding claims in the judiciary for the parties, which, in your opinion, are situations where someone doesn't pay a court fee and it's too late, because normally the principle is that a court fee is paid first, then they're suing. Or maybe we'll keep the cargo outstanding for an expert opinion. These debts, which are not large, we are trying to be a proper economy and prevent them from being created, so they have a catastrophically low yield. So low that when several courts tried to make a deal with the bailiffs, if they weren't gonna enforce it for them, those bailiffs gradually started testifying to the contracts because they said they didn't care. The current principle of functioning was that it was done by the judicial department, which was in charge of the enforcement of the decision, i.e. as it carried out decisions for ordinary citizens, so it did for us, for the courts. But the department's basically disappearing today because their jobs have just been taken over by the executives, and we're only feeding them because of these very harmless claims. Economically, it would just be economical to write off the claims. But to my dear colleague, the concept of moral hazard is kind of expensive, so in order to avoid moral hazard, we think that the state cannot write off these claims and must at least in some way enforce them. And since it's such a residual agenda, the idea was born to move it to Customs, which otherwise enforces public-law claims for the state, and we managed to persuade the Customs administration to agree with that by gnashing their teeth. So on behalf of the good administration of those county courts, where they're having a really big problem, I'm asking you in that third reading for more support. I don't think it's as far-reaching a change as it seems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-005-020.u11	Thank you. I will read an apology: today from 12.30 pm to the end of the day, Mr Okamura apologizes for reasons of work. Vice-President Radek Vondráček is still applying for priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-005-020.u12	Hello, I'm a little sorry for using priority rights, I don't often enjoy it. I did not speak entirely intentionally in the general debate, I did not want to prolong it, because the amendment is quite justified. He's already stepped up for me, and I've basically been defended by the minister. So I would just add that it will also relieve those workers who do it, who basically don't have the skills to do it many times and get it almost as punishment. And unlike, for example, the discussed generator, this is a measure that the system and the justice system welcome. He's got support. There's a little bit of killing two birds with one stone. Customs will be busy and justice will be relieved. And we're all doing a little bit of court-martialing, and we're all doing more or less this whole term in line with the programs here. So I think it's a smart idea, it's worked out well, it's relatively simple and legislatively simple. And I know that on the Constitutional Legal Committee, where I no longer had the opportunity to support him, that was one vote, and I may have hesitated a little bit, that with better information from some of the voters, it would have turned out differently. On the contrary, I am asking for the kind support of this proposal in the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-005-020.u13	Thank you. The rapporteur does not want the final word. I therefore launch a detailed debate when I register four applications. First of all, Mr Plíšek will appear, Mr Tejc will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-005-020.u14	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues, since I have justified my amendments in the general debate, allow me to sign up to them. They are contained in the system and listed under numbers 6358 and 6420. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-005-020.u15	Thank you. Now Mr Tejc, Mr Radek Vondráček, will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-005-020.u16	I will allow myself to sign up to the amendment under number 6389 to this press, which, as I have already explained, concerns modifications to the generator, or that it would be confined to insolvency proceedings only.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-005-020.u17	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Radek Vondráček, Mrs Válková will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-005-020.u18	As has been announced, I refer to Amendment 6281 concerning recovery of claims by the customs office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-005-020.u19	Thank you. Now, Mrs Válková, Mr Kádner will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-005-020.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, unlike my previous speakers, I did not have the opportunity to justify the proposal in the general debate, nor did I want to use the general debate for a long interpretation. So I'm signing up for the amendment, which is inserted under number 6182 in the system, and I just wanted to point out that I went the middle way. You have heard arguments about why to introduce or not to implement an automatic generator, and I think that in the most controversial agenda that undoubtedly insolvency matters are, at least in the public, there are doubts as to whether everything is going to be done properly, it is appropriate to test the automatic generator - on the one hand. On the other hand, I do not know how the entire agenda will be managed in the way the Minister presented it here. Indeed, as Mr Benda said, this does not exactly resonate in the area of justice. [[12.40 hours]] justice is concerned that the introduction of the system will be accompanied by a number of errors, so there is a long enough period of time here, and in particular in my amendment until 31. 12. 2021, i.e. several years. Whenever the next political representation, or Members who come after us, will be able to change the law if the system were to fail, of course, so that the other agendas, or even the insolvency agenda, will no longer be used by the automatic generator. However, I hope that it will be used, that I am too skeptical and pessimistic, that the realist is the minister and that in the end we will be glad to find out that my concern was not justified. Therefore, I propose that we introduce an automatic generator on the insolvency agenda, in insolvency cases, and in other matters wait to see if it works, until 31. 12. 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-005-020.u21	Thank you. Now, Mr David Kádner.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-005-020.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me formally sign up for Amendment 6183. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-005-020.u23	Thank you, too. I wonder if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate. I don't see anyone. If that is the case, I will conclude a detailed debate. I am asking the Minister and the rapporteur for the final vote. It's not like that. Since no other proposal has been made, I am ending the second reading of this proposal. I'm opening another point in today's meeting, and that's
