ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u1	297. Final report of the Chamber of Deputies investigating the activities of members of the Police Presidium of the Czech Republic, the Organized Crime Detection Unit of the Police of the Czech Republic and prosecutors of the Supreme Prosecutor's Office in Olomouc in connection with the reorganisation of ÚOOZ and ÚOKFK Police of the Czech Republic on 1 August 2016 /Departmental Document 5661/ We interrupted this point after the rapporteur's speech. That is, at this point, I will start a general debate, in which I have five applications. I ask the rapporteur to settle down at the rapporteur's table, and in the general debate I will give the floor to Mr Dolejš Richard and after him will be prepared by Mr Chalupa. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it. And I ask the House for peace. Please take your seats and listen to the speakers' speeches. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u2	Mr President, dear government, dear colleagues, allow me, as a member of the committee of inquiry, to comment on the final report you have at your disposal. In my opinion, this report is balanced, objective and non-political. I am pleased that it has been approved unanimously by all the members of the Commission across the political spectrum, which, of course, has great importance and great value. Behind this report are many hours and days of work by members of the Commission, but also professionals who have been asked by the Commission for assistance. So it is not only the work of Members, but also the professionals who actually participated in this final report, and I would like to thank not only the Members, but also those experts that we had at our disposal, which I personally consider essential. There is no point in repeating what has been said here by the President. However, I would try to pierce the most fundamental of my point of view. In my view, it is crucial that there was no established speculation that the organizational change was designed on the basis of a political assignment. This was actually the subject of a political dispute, particularly with Andrej Babiš and the ANO movement, and this has not been proven. There was also no evidence of speculation that the unit merger was carried out for the purpose of the purpose of the removal of Mr Šlachta, a member of the ÚOOZ. That hasn't been proven. Plus, we've all witnessed that Mr. Šlachta left the police alone and didn't wait for the trial set up by the police president. There was no evidence of accusation against the police president of the so-called a brutal leak of information to a criminal environment. That was a major attack, this accusation against the police president. I think it was an assassination of the police president. And it is crucial that the Commission has actually reached conclusions, where there may have been some manipulation with the police president. There was also no evidence of a link between the so-called A Šlachtův report and an organizational change in the police. This is also important to poke out and remind yourself. At the same time, it has been demonstrated that various versions of reorganisation and merging of units with nationwide application have been mentioned in the conceptual materials of the Police Presidium and the Ministry of the Interior since 1993. So, in fact, the measure that has been taken is, I think, the outcome of long-term discussions, and there is nothing new that we should be surprised about. I personally consider the decision of the Police President and the Minister of the Interior to be a step in the right direction, the right decision and the necessary decision. The truth is, it could have been better communicated. That was also the conclusion of the commission. However, what I consider to be a big problem, and this brings me to the political commentary, is that the reorganisation, if you will, has been politicised by the police. And it was politicized by Andrej Babiš in particular and the ANO movement. Andrej Babiš, together with his media, was involved in the launch of a media campaign and, as I said, the speculations mentioned were refuted as facts. Virtual reality was created, mud was thrown into the Minister of the Interior and the Police President, but above all to social democracy. And I'm asking why? Of course, Andrej Babiš himself replied to this question, who apparently abused the police and the prosecutor's office in the campaign. I will quote Andrej Babiš, who, in connection with the reorganisation of the police, said: "The ČSSD has charged us. The chovanec has won the reorganization issue, he will see in the election campaign." I say it in Czech, I won't say it in Slovak. I don't speak Slovak well. [[11.00 hours]] And, of course, they saw social democracy and Minister Chovanec. If you look at the billboards that put up the YES movement, they say for themselves. If something brutal happened, it was a brutal attack on social democracy and the Home Secretary. It says here - I'll read it to you: "We deserve a better Czech Republic without politicians destroying independent police." No liquidation of the independent police has been demonstrated. Of course, a number of similar attacks followed, not only on billboards, but also on media. Of course, the ANO movement's henchmen, such as Mr Jančura and others who had launched a campaign that had no parallel to the Minister of the Interior, have also joined. I mean, again, none of what was on those billboards has been proven on the buses. You know, a decent man would apologize to Andrej Babiš on the spot. However, we cannot expect that from Andrej Babiš, it is simply not in his nature. He is close to aggression, he is close to brutal attacks against political opponents and economic opponents, that is his standard method. Not an apology. You know, what I'm saying here is pulling the police into a political struggle is a game of fire. And that's where the police pulled in. I would like to remind you of the so-called Šlachtův report. This was nothing more than an attempt to create Kubice's number two report. Because the whole story of the so-called Šlacht report had the same, almost the same scenario as the Kubice report. I would like to try to remind you what was really going on in Kubice's report. Kubice's report then, at the time of Jiří Paroubek's reign, pulled the former ÚOOZ into political games. At that time, the Security Committee of the Chamber of Deputies was pulled in and served as a valve for various speculations, conjectures, rumors, lies, and unsubstantiated accusations against social democracy against Jiří Paroubek from Kubice's report. Before the election, a bubble with outrageous filth blew up, and then the accusations didn't prove. However, Kubice's report served its purpose. At that time, it influenced parliamentary elections, weakened Prime Minister Paroubek and created room for the accession of right-wing governments. You will remember that Mr. Kubice's former head of the ÚOOZ was subsequently awarded as Minister of the Interior for reward a few years later. Šlachtův's report is similar. Before the election, it served as a filling for Babišův's media dungeon. After examining the commission of inquiry, the structure contained in it collapsed as well as Kubice's report. And this is mentioned here by the chairman of the commission of inquiry, which you have in writing. It has not been proven that the constructions contained in the so-called Šlacht report are related to the organizational change made in the police. The Šlachtův report, in my opinion, can therefore be described as Kubice's report number two. With active media support from former members of the ÚOOZ Babišův media empire, if you want a fertilizer, the result of regional elections worked and certainly influenced the result of the election, as in the time of Kubice's report. And Mr Šlachta, like his predecessor Kubice, was given an important position in the administration for good service. By chance, at Babišův's Resort. The question is whether in the finals Mr Babiš will not be rewarded with a ministerial function as well as Mr Kubice, if Mr Babiš has an influence on it. And a few words in conclusion. I am convinced that bringing repressive and security forces into political warfare is unacceptable and threatens the very essence of democracy. Using the state's repressive apparatus to gain and maintain political power is a method of governments of authoritarian and totalitarian regimes. We should all be aware of that. I understand that this vision of the world is probably close to Andrej Babiš because of his past, but it cannot be acceptable for democrats, for genuine democrats. I just fundamentally disagree with these methods. That is why I call on Andrej Babiš and the ANO movement to no longer politicize the police and prosecutors, so that it is not repeated that these forces will be dragged back into the electoral struggle and be abused in the clashes before us. Thank you for your attention and I believe that Mr Babiš will also take the conclusions of this committee to heart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u3	Please, Mr Plzák, with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I look at my previous speaker's speech - with the view of a normal citizen. Mr. Colleague, you can hang my nostrils all you want, but if the OOOZ was praised in the spring as it is expected and so on, if Mr. Laube in the eavesdropping - and I don't quote him precisely - he says: I came here to destroy Mr. Šlachta, so you can tell me what you want as a citizen, I just won't trust you. And don't be mad at me. [[Laughs in the hall.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u5	In fact, Mr. Home Secretary and then Mr. MP Stupčuk.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u6	Mr President, you have committed a gross foul. But a rude foul! Can you please show me the wire you're talking about? What's with the wire? Why are you insulting the man who served this state? I invite you to either apologize immediately or to prove what you are talking about. I've never heard of a wiretap like that. It's very likely that you read it in the Lidové noviny. Put the wire on or apologize! You can't insult decent people from this position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u7	Mr Stupčuk, Mr Birke and Mr Plzák. All factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u8	Dear colleagues, colleagues. I didn't originally want to perform, but I have to. I would like to respond to the words of my colleague Plzák. I think you haven't even listened to what has been said about the report that has been read here. And hopefully you won't question the report voted for by a member of your committee. I think the most valuable thing about this report is that all the members of the Commission have agreed unanimously on it. And the end of the committee is clear. There was no politicalization of the police force in the implementation of the so-called - professionally speaking - reorganisation. And in this regard, the truthfulness of Andrej Babiš's statement and of the Minister of Justice, Robert Pelikán, cannot stand. And it's time for a responsible decent politician to apologize to the Home Secretary and Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u9	Please, Mr Birke, then Mr Pilsen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u10	Thank you for the floor. Through Mr President, Mr Plzák, you are a liar, in the words of your President. You know, it's the same thing you were waving here six months ago when I was before the D47 election, a kind of notebook that never existed, where there were some things where I'm corrupted in the D47 case. That's the same nonsense you just said. Please apologize and stop fooling the public all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u11	Mr Plzák, Mr Blažek after him. Then Mrs Lorencová, then the Prime Minister. All factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u12	Thank you. Yes, Minister, I didn't really know which newspaper I was coming from. And if that information really isn't true, then I apologize to you and to Mr Laube. Is it enough like this? Otherwise, about the notebook, I was talking about Mr. Hal, who was being investigated, and I wasn't even referring to the D47 motorway.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u13	I beg Mr Blažek to make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u14	Thank you for the floor. I have a request. First of all, let's all remember that the wiretap you read in the paper is illegal. But, okay, they've become part of public space, so they're used here. Oh, please, let's not keep one thing, and that's this case. When some wiretap, when two people are talking about something somewhere, there's no evidence that the third guy said it. This needs to be emphasized terribly. I remember what came out in the Lidové noviny at the time, but please, if we had any of Mr. Laube's wiretapping, if he had said that, the message looks completely different. But we don't have anything like that, and no one has it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u15	Mrs Lorencová, with a factual remark, then the Prime Minister, then the Minister of the Interior and then Vice-President Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u16	Mr President, colleagues, colleagues. In my opinion, what we have read, what we had at our disposal, and, of course, what has been said in the media, the outcome of this commission's work is quite clearly an example of how we can manipulate the same facts. The same facts are available and can be dealt with differently. For me, for example, the report shows things that are completely different from those of the summary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u17	I ask the Minister to wait his turn. Now the Prime Minister will speak with a factual remark, then the Minister of the Interior and then a long number of others.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u18	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. Establishment of the commission of inquiry The Chamber of Deputies is an extraordinary thing. Such commissions have not been set up in the past. They are chosen in an emergency situation. I would just like to remind you that the police reorganisation was accompanied by extraordinary hysteria, what was happening on the political scene. The YES movement even then wanted to leave the government or to consider abandoning the government. This means that there was also a breakdown of the government in the ANO movement, so it was an extraordinary situation. And I have one thing to appreciate. I must say that she brought some methodical procedure into the hysteria of the committee of inquiry, as I have studied her report, and brought the work with the facts. I want to appreciate the fact that the commission was working with the fact that she was verifying the facts and trying to get into that shitload of truth, half-truth, slander, lies that appeared in the media space in connection with the police reorganisation, so she tried to bring some rational approach into it. And that is why, after all, we have also encouraged the formation of an investigation committee to have someone standing outside the current political conflict, which unfortunately took place between the two coalition parties primarily. I have to admit that, and it doesn't please me at all as Prime Minister, but it took place within a government coalition. And I supported the emergence of this committee of inquiry so that someone here would be impartial, independent, where all the parties would be represented, and look at this thing with distance and rationality. And I'm convinced that I'm watching the report that the committee had that distance. So the facts were being dealt with, and the facts made it clear that there was no brutal leak of information from the police president and that there was no political pressure or political assignment to implement a police reorganization. These are two important conclusions that are of great importance. In the midst of all the hysteria and political struggle that took place around the police reorganization.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u19	Mr. Home Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u20	Mr President, fellow Members, I would like to thank your colleague from YES who can apologize. I really appreciate it. You know, I thought we were going to have this debate today in a non-hysterical spirit, where the committee we created, and there were representatives of all the political parties and, of course, the ANO movement could nominate its representative, so it approved the report, which these members approved unanimously. I'm probably wrong. We had to endure your criticism, your accusations, your suspicions, your invading, your abuse of this topic in the regional elections. So please, you'll survive a return to the past, which we're here to at least partially enlighten the public. You know, I was really naive, I thought we'd accept the report and get out of it. And that would be enough from the YES movement - unfortunately, there is no Andrej Babiš, because he was the main promoter of the attack on independent police and the Ministry of the Interior. I'm sorry, I was wrong.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u21	Mr. Lank, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Vice-President Bartošek was before him with a point of fact, then Mr Lank.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u22	Mr President, thank you for the floor. As a member of the committee of inquiry in my factual point, I would like to say one thing. We can have a lot of ideas, speculations, and conjecture about what the reform of the police was inspired by. I'm not buying it. But as members of the committee of inquiry, we were based only on what we were able to prove on the basis of evidence and various materials. And if you think something about something and you can't prove it, it's just a hypothesis. Do you think that the two criminal charges that fell were based on conjecture? Do you think we gave it on the basis of what Lidové noviny or some other newspaper wrote? Do you think it was the relevant material we were based on for the conclusions of our committee? You really think we're capable of naming people in our final report without being able to rely on relevant evidence? That we would expose ourselves and the House's work to show us that we're bringing people in and we don't have the proper evidence? Do you really think we would submit such a report? I can think of a lot of things about it, I can have a lot of conjecture. But if I'm not able to prove it, it remains my hypothesis, which I keep to myself, and I don't put it outside as something that's valid and documented. It's not like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u23	Mr. Lank. I'll ask the Minister if this is a factual point. With priority rights, so only after we've exhausted the actual.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u24	Good morning again. My colleague Bartošek said in part what I wanted to say, what I wanted to point out paradoxically from the opposition. I'm gonna try to calm this place down a little bit and get back to the plane of things. I understand that each of you interprets the conclusions of our commission, the final report, in its own way and simply politically purposeful. We're here in a political body, each of us holding a party and her opinions, so we can understand that. But I want to draw attention again to what has basically been said here by the previous speaker. Only things that have been verified, demonstrated and documented can be found in our Commission's final report. Nothing else. And absolutely - and I'm sorry to say this, but it is - it is absolutely impossible to say that when it says that something has not been proven, it simply does not mean that it has not happened. You just can't prove it. Pure pragmatically, no offense, but this is how it must be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u25	I ask Mr Sklenák with a factual remark, and then also President Fiala with a factual remark. Then it seems to be the priority rights of the ministers. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u26	Thank you for the floor. I volunteered on the basis of two of my fellow Members from the ANO MP's club, and I want to ask them how far you want to go with your fantasies, your lies, your bullshit, which you constantly accuse your political colleagues of. The story began in June when your colleague called him without his knowledge when he was chairman of the Security Committee abroad. And what was supposed to happen there? There was to be exactly what my colleague Dolejš was going to talk about in order to present some imaginary, unsubstantiated information that you would get into your party press and live your life. This was essentially not possible and the House decided in the only right way that it had set up a committee of inquiry. I understand you don't like the conclusions, but what are you going to question next? Now you are questioning the report of the committee of inquiry, which has been adopted by all votes, and by the voice of your representative! Next time, will you question the entire Parliament? So please respect that and behave!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u27	President Fiala, with a point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u28	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I, on behalf of the Civil Democratic Party, want to say only two statements that will fit into the factual point, which is why I have taken advantage of this space. One. I, like the Prime Minister, agree extremely much on this - believe that the Commission of inquiry has done a very good job. The report submitted is balanced and factual. And not just that. It contains not only some statements, but also proposals for solutions, proposals for further action, and this is very valuable. I believe that the Chamber of Deputies can be proud of the work of this commission of inquiry, because the commission of inquiry has acted in a matter of fact and has brought the matter back from the plane of political abuse to the facts. The second statement that follows is that the Civil Democratic Party agrees with the Commission's conclusions and the Civil Democratic Party fully supports the proposed resolution by the Chamber of Deputies on this matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u29	Mr. Pavera, then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u30	Have a nice morning. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, just a brief statement from me. I fully understand my fellow Members from the ANO movement that they are not satisfied with the conclusion of the Commission because they were counting on something completely different to come out. But they have to accept that not everything they've said is true, and that other personalities, as well as other parties, are right to point out that something unfair has happened here. I have a question for the Prime Minister about Mr. Šlacht's opinion that Mr. Šlachta was stationed at the Ministry of Finance, the Customs Administration, as to whether it would be possible to conclude any connection between Mr. Šlachta and Mr. Babiš. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u31	Mr Fichtner, then, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u32	Good morning, thank you for the floor. Thank you for the report, even if we can think of it as anything we want. However, I would like to protest as an ordinary Member against one thing, against the fact that I was actually familiar with the report today. I don't know what's classified about her, but I'm assuming the media already have her, and if they don't, they're gonna have her in a minute, 'cause everyone's on the table. I'd like us to have enough time to study the report in detail. I am trying to study it now, but there is not enough time to do it, and especially during such a heated discussion, I do not think that it is possible to study the report. I don't know why we've been discussing it at a zero-time distance since it was submitted to us. I think that even the break that was here is hardly enough for all of us to study it. So that's my protest. Again, I'm trying to study it, I'm gonna need more time. At this point, I'm going to leave the point of fact, but I'm going to propose an interruption of this point. So much for me at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u33	I take it you're not suggesting interruptions, you're merely announcing your intention to do so in the future. Mr. Stanjura's point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u34	If you wish, Mr President, to file a complaint about how this is going today, that is the right bench, where your chairman of the MP's club is normally sitting, with whom we have agreed this procedure. He even said if the hour wasn't too much. And now I just, I don't know about you, but when I read in my mind, not out loud, I read faster. And I suppose a grown man understands what he's reading. We heard the whole thing, it took less than an hour. If you're gonna complain, you're gonna have to clean up your club. That was the agreement of all the presidents of the MPs since Tuesday! The report is public. That the reporters have it today. Well, they wouldn't have it. that's really something at the top of the line that when the chairman of the committee here reads the report, he'll probably end up in the media. It even aired live if I have the right information. You're right. It's in the media. Really! And that's all you told us in your factual reminder. So if you're complaining that you're running out of time, start at your club. Because if the deal wasn't, we were looking for another deal. We didn't vote on it!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u35	Mr Fichtner, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u36	Through Mr President, I don't know about you, but I get those things if I have to vote on them like that, so I study them in detail. Indeed, the fact that someone will read it and that I will get it in writing in a few minutes is not enough to vote on such important material in two hours. I have to study it, I have to read it, I understand it, I read every sentence several times, then I can get a picture of it. Maybe I can see here that there are some logical contradictions in the report. But again, I need enough time to read it properly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u37	Mr Blažek, with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u38	I'm gonna follow up on my colleague Stanjura, and I'm just gonna do it again. In the agreement on how this is going to work, the representative of the ANO movement, your chairman of the club, was. If it were to be otherwise, the committee suggested a different solution. It wasn't important to us when it was going to be dealt, how it was going to be dealt. We respected the agreement of all the political parties, and that is exactly what happened. That you guys didn't tell each other, okay? You're actually telling us "Mr. Faltýnek doesn't have a mandate" because he's gonna set something up and you're gonna come up with another version. With all due respect, Mr. Faltýnek - I have no reason to pick on him, so I have to stand up for him - he has the mandate, he is the chairman of the club. And I don't understand the debate here at all. Then choose another chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u39	Mr. Schwarz.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u40	Mr President, at least I have the honour to perform in the House under the chairman once, that I am also lucky... Colleagues and colleagues, I'd like to go back a little bit. Mr. Fichtner said what he needed to say, said his opinion. Once again, it was an agreement. I understand, Mr. Stanjur. But we didn't know how big the message would be. I suppose not even Mr. Faltýnek. He just wanted to come out and make a decision when the report came forward when it was read. But I'm sorry to say that there was a deal... Yes, all right, we honor that too, we're here, we're listening to the message, we've had it read to you as it was. But when someone finds out that the report is six or seven pages, there's no way to vote on it. [[11.30 hours]] As a cop, I know what it's about, the report. I read it. But there are people who have never been to the police, they haven't interrogated, and they want to read it in detail, and they don't know what it's about. And I don't have time to explain it to everyone. So please tolerate it. We honor the agreements, Mr President. I'd like to tell you that we honor the deal. I also honor them as vice president of the club. He only said his opinion. You might have noticed, too, and you haven't said that before it's over, that it doesn't suggest that he's just suggesting that he has a problem with it. And that's it. So please, let's hold on, let's let those who want to talk about the report. After all, my colleague Chalupa is looking forward to seeing him, and let's not say these things that we don't honor agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u41	That was the last point of fact. At this stage, we have two applications with priority rights. Minister Chvojka, then Minister Pelikán.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. First, I'll respond to my two previous speakers. First for colleague Fichtner, then for colleague Plzák. Mr. Fichtner - I don't mean any harm at all, I also need to read the report. Because I, like you or Václav Klaus, like to highlight, chant, blue, so I'm sure I'd like to read it the way it's supposed to be and it belongs, that's 20 pages, and I'm gonna yell at them, yell at them, yell at them. But I think the conclusion that was made today is clear. What Andrej Babiš presented happened, and how to use the police, it didn't happen. [[unintelligible]] There's no need to read it now, that's what we've heard here, the conclusion is clear. So we can easily read it at home, underline it, undermine it, highlight it. But the conclusion that has been read here is, I think, quite clear. To Mr. Plzák's colleague. I would not be angry with him, through the President, because he simply believes what the group press wrote, Lidové noviny. When I went to the brigade at different factories, there was a racing press that said about the company's success and how good the company was. The Lidové noviny is also basically the racing press of the group, which the employees of Agrofert trust. So I'm not surprised that Mr Plzák, through the President, believes that when Lidovky wrote that Laube had said something somewhere, it was true. Just an employee trusts the group press. And, of course, there were more articles. For example, Šlachta wants to take down the mob, thinks Jančura, the Lidové noviny group press. How to get rid of Šlachta, the Lidové noviny group press. Justice normalization in the direction of godparents, Lidové noviny. So the group press, which all the employees of Agrofert and the ANO movement must trust. And I'll show you more pictures. [[He's pointing.]] Before the regional council elections, we had a country filled with such not entirely in my opinion normal billboards, but OK. We deserve a better Czech Republic without politicians run by mobsters. We won't stop fighting corruption, even though the boys are trying hard. We deserve a better Czech Republic without politicians destroying independent police. There were 70 such billboards in the Czech Republic, Andrej Babiš had them hanged around the Czech Republic during last year's campaign before the regional elections and reported on them his vision of a better Czech without politicians destroying independent police, without politicians running the mob. We can see it on the billboards. It was part of the huge machine that Andrej Babiš unleashed around the reorganization of the police, and he did not hesitate to use his own media, he did not hesitate to abuse police, police leaders and prosecutors. The target was clear. The goal was absolutely clear - to tarnish your political competitor, who, of course, is ČSSD. I feel that today this bloated bubble of lies and fantasy has definitely snapped and tarnished those who inflated it themselves. It was not a reorganization of the police, which was politically motivated or purposeful. This was, in my opinion, the campaign of Andrej Babiš and the ANO movement. By his abuse of the Police of the Czech Republic, such a disgraceful campaign can, in my opinion, only be compared to the so-called Kubice report. Andrej Babiš likes to say about himself and often says that he is not a traditional politician. It's not always like that, but I have to agree with him here. In this way, politically exploit the highly professional issue of reorganization of police for its own benefit is really nothing traditional and, in my opinion, it is very reprehensible. I hope it doesn't happen traditional anywhere, and best of all, it never happens again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u43	Before I give the floor to the Minister, Mr Hájek, with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u44	Mr President, fellow Members, I have expected my colleague, Mr Černochová, to speak silently so far. I see empty benches here, there's no Home Secretary, there's no Chairman Babiš, so I'm making a procedural motion to interrupt this item until the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Finance arrive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u45	Yes, that is a procedural proposal that we will decide by vote. I'm asking you to re-enlist, because there's a motion for a check-out, and I'm calling in my co-workers from the lobby. It is a proposal to interrupt this point in the presence of the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Finance. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who agrees to interrupt this point, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a 309, vote registered 102, for 39, against 42. This proposal has not been adopted. Let's keep going. Mr. Justice Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u46	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, a moment ago there was a debate about whether or not the time was sufficient to study the report. Many of you said that they must have read it and understood the text. And yet, unfortunately, the reactions that are being heard here that are spreading on the networks are not responding at all. Here at random - the Prime Minister wrote on Twitter: The report of the commission of inquiry refuted rumors and lies that spread around police reform. None of what Andrej Babiš claimed about reform was confirmed. Or the President himself: The reorganization of the police was neither purposeful nor illegal, so there was nothing Andrej Babiš said about it. I think we've read every other report. [[Jollyness and expressions of consent from ANO.]] I have read a report in which some things have not been proven. [[With emphasis:]] There's a hell of a difference between unproven and refuted. For example, the fact that the earth orbits the sun has never been proven with certainty. Still, I wouldn't say he's disproved. We may even be very likely to believe that this is the case. Now, what is really in that report, or in that part of it that really deals with facts, which are the most relevant factual findings of pages 3 to 7. I read here: The directors of the affected departments were acquainted with the organizational change in the second half of May 2016. It is not said when exactly, but in the second half of May 2016. There was no record of introductions. At the end of May 2016, the state prosecutors promised a general meeting. That's right before sending a reporter to the Home Secretary. It was sent to 31. 5. 2016. The decision of Tuhý and Laube to merge both departments was presented as final and non-variable. What am I reading here? Conceptual or strategic materials processed under the responsibility of the current police president do not deal with or mention the merger of units with national competence. There is a sentence missing here that the last of these conceptual materials, which does not even mention something like this, is dated May 2016. [[11.40 hours]] The representatives of the Police Presidium did not have any actual and detailed analyses or statistics to support the reasons presented by them in connection with the draft organisational change. I'm reading this! And so the question arises, and it arose even then - what happened? [[Very strongly.]] Why was it suddenly necessary in the second half of May to prepare for a change in 14 days, such a fundamental change of police force, and to submit it as a permanent minister of the interior for approval? And that's what the investigation committee was supposed to give an answer to. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee of inquiry has given no answer to that. The investigation board said they didn't know. And everything else in that report, the final evaluation, that's just speculation that Trump would probably call alternative facts. [[Laughter and applause from the YES benches.]] I insist on everything I've ever said about a police reorganization, because the facts I've said have remained the same. Including the fact that - this is again in those factual findings - there was strange communication from the number, from the simka, which then strangely appeared on the phone of a family member of our police president. With the fact that these things, as I have learned, I did not know, they are again under investigation by law enforcement authorities. And with the fact that - I didn't know that either - the police president could never explain how it happened and where the phone was. These are important findings to me from this report. Finally, I just want to strongly oppose one of the accompanying resolutions. I do not agree with any of them, but I strongly object to the political decision being tasked by the Minister of Justice in carrying out his personal responsibility to the State Prosecutor. The prosecutor's office is and must remain independent. And the state prosecutors will not appeal on the basis of the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u47	Now we have a few facts. Mr Váňa, then Mr Gabal was signed in, then Mr Blažek and then Mr Kováčik. So, all of you, after two minutes. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to the Minister. I liked the speech very much, even the voice touch, it was very nice. I would just remind him of what is not really in the report, and there the Minister was right about the reform of the police, so I would recommend that he read a book called Reform of the Police of the Czech Republic. The book was published in 2012 and there is a commendation of Mr. Robert Šlachta. Well, it's just the time data. And of course, the committee didn't deal with that, because it's a different period of time. Otherwise, since the Minister has already spoken here - perhaps you remember the debate last time we talked about having to defend him because someone was accusing him, even for speakers who would perform, that someone was to blame him for saying that he should have resigned when he said so. So let me just remind you again that Minister Pelikán never said that he would resign in this regard, because Minister Babiš said that Minister Pelikán would have to resign. So just to be clear, let's reminisce about the events back the way it was. Even if the report doesn't write about it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u49	Mr. Gabal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the government, I have also unfortunately not been able to study this, I am used to studying these things thoroughly, so I have done a rather simple thing that I have looked at the extent to which this report reflects the key meeting of the Security Committee, to which Minister Chovanec brought the request and proposal for police reform and the analytical basis for which he justified it. In this analytical basis, it was necessary to maintain and strengthen the independence of the OOOOOO because, in terms of counter-terrorist and other tasks of the OOOOOOO, it must maintain its autonomy and be strengthened. Interestingly, of course, they failed to maintain this in the following debate, and the result was a vote by the Security Committee, which interrupted the discussion of the police reform point, and still did not return to it and did not finish it. I consider the fact that this report does not contain a key resolution by the Security Committee on interrupting and not having an opinion on police reform to be a serious deficiency. And second, I am at the same meeting - it is a pity that the President, by your means, forgot the Committee on Security - has delivered a negative opinion from the Attorney General on reform. The message doesn't contain it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u51	I ask Mr Blažek to make a point of fact, after which President Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u52	In response to the Prime Minister's speech and the Minister of Justice, I can only say that there is a saying when two say the same thing, it is not the same. So here, it's even true that when two read the same thing, it's not the same thing. And maybe it's more than that. As far as his sentence is concerned, he is somehow interfering with the independence of the prosecutor -- well, if it were so that Mr Blažek calls to the Minister of Justice and says to him: we will call off, and perhaps Ištvan, that is what he must not be. But I would like to stress that we are a parliamentary republic. The government that is responsible for us is responsible for the prosecutor's office. This resolution is only about this: Dear Government, deal with the Olomouc! Is everything okay in there? That's all it is. That's not a hit. And the fact that there is a 'including personnel' resolution in this is up to the government, its responsibility, how this prosecutor will let it go on. That is certainly not a politician's intervention. And if this resolution is adopted, it will be the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies. About what Mr Gabal said. That part is called the Most Important factual findings. And I'll add, which we've heard. What you said is public affairs. It's not there. This is not called all factual findings. But they're most important, and the committee had it at their disposal. Not to mention that some of the members of this committee were also members of that committee. So we knew about this. But it just didn't appear to be the most relevant factual findings. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u53	Mr. Chairman Kováčik, then Mr. Member Chalupa.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have a little bit of eyebrows on how this debate is going. I want to say that the KSČM MP club appreciates the fact that the commission dealing mainly with the substance of the phenomena it was supposed to explore has done its job well, and after a long time there is no end to the commission's work with any conclusion. I appreciate that. After all, our member of the Commission has done his job very well and is thus evaluated not only by us but also from a broader perspective. I also appreciate the fact that part of the parties to the debate hold that position of substance. I am less appreciative of the fact that, on the background of this material report, which basically only sums up what has been brought there, it does not evaluate the evaluation, it is already on us from the point of view of the resolution, that it provokes an open internal coalition war. I'm begging you to do that somewhere else! I know it's before the election atp., but here things are more serious than who brought or took or hurt whom in the coalition, stepped on the chicken eye and stuff like that. [[11.50 hours]] But the biggest eyebrows pulling out not only in me is the position of the Minister of Justice. Don't be mad at me, I see not only me but also a number of my fellow Members from the House of Deputies in the speech, especially at the end of the speech by the Minister of Justice, a kind of contempt for the Chamber of Deputies. I ask everyone to realize that the government is derived from the Chamber of Deputies, as the President of the Blažek Commission has also reminded me here that he is confessing. The Chamber of Deputies, therefore, that this resolution, which the Minister referred to as being a bit above all, corresponds entirely to what the Chamber of Deputies may want from the Government, and if such contempt by the Chamber of Deputies - I believe that the Minister knows well what the position of the Government towards the Chamber of Deputies is - will continue, I would ask the Prime Minister to consider the dismissal of the Minister of Justice from the Minister's office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u55	Mr Chalupa, after him Mr Korte - still factual remarks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u56	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, I wonder when you're gonna let me talk, because what's happening right now makes me really sick! And Mr. Sklenák here was talking about what the beginning was like. The beginning was that the prosecutors called against the reorganisation, not the YES movement. And only the YES movement had an interest in solving the problem. First of all. Secondly, it was I who first called the Security Committee, it was I who wrote a public letter to the Prime Minister on this matter, and it was you who destroyed all the others who were meeting with the Security Committee, the hearing of Colonel Šlachta. So we'll pour some pure political wine here in a minute if you let me talk! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u57	Now, Mr Korte, with a factual remark, and then, in fact, Mr Blažek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u58	Thank you. I just want to set the record straight with what my colleague Ivan Gabal said. Yes, it is true that the Security Committee adopted a resolution to deal with the organizational change of the Police of the Czech Republic, after the completion of the work of the commission of inquiry. Two. The resolution proposed by Ivan Gabal to express its opposition to the organisational change was therefore not adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u59	Mr Blažek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u60	It's just a brief reaction. We have February, so it is good to say something about a similar crisis that happened in 1948, and it is good to compare it. When I hear here that the crisis was not triggered by the YES movement, and it did, it was just a simple example. On February 13, 1948, during the government - I stress this - Prokop Drtina Drtina and I think Hubert Ripka and Minister Stránský of the fact that the Earth's Security Commander had done, and now I will make it very simple, huge changes in the police by calling off x officials in Prague. Throughout the reign, these ministers have proposed a resolution ordering this resolution to be suspended, and a government crisis has arisen. What did the yes ministers do? A weeping press conference at Strakovka's! So we don't take credit for what they are. These guys dealt with it immediately, and that's what the report says to make us realize again, and no minister has thought about how it was possible. That's the problem. So I would be very happy if you were the YES movement and anyone else, virtually. Ministers, I have nothing to blame Members for not taking credit for what they did. They didn't do anything except press releases. Unlike those, study what they really did during the government. They responded immediately and wanted to stop it. The adjustment is exactly the same today and your ministers, and here I am telling you this as an opposition MP, and I am telling you this in fact and without any emotions, they didn't even bother to suggest this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u61	Really, Mr. Justice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u62	Thank you. I have to respond to that. My dear colleague has cut into history, but we need to know the exact history. At that memorable meeting of the government, Prime Minister Klement Gottwald was not at that time. And that is the only thing that allowed non-communist members of the government to enforce this resolution, because the government's agenda is now decided by the Prime Minister, who is the Prime Minister, and when he is not there, the Vice Prime Minister. That's what happened the other day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u63	Calm down, please! Let the Minister speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u64	And the other thing. We've done quite a lot. There was a lot. A meeting of the Security Council of the State was needed, where our proposals were ignored by the President, etc. But after all, some things did. For example, the change was postponed a month later. And over the course of that month, there were a number of comments from the D.A.'s office, and I dare say that if it hadn't been postponed that month, it would have been a complete disaster, because the whole month was coming up with what everything wasn't being thought about when it was being proposed. And the second thing that succeeded was that the officers who worked on the Berett case were earmarked for our objection, and it only allowed the case to go to the phase of realization, which, as we know, has happened, and we'll see what happens next, but you know that a few people are in custody. So it's definitely not true that we didn't do anything. We did everything we could. That's all I could do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u65	Mr Blažek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u66	The Minister is right about February 13, 1948, but there have been a few governments since you had the press conference. No one's ever tried it in there either. And the interpretation of the Government's Rules of Procedure so that the Minister cannot propose a point in the programme is completely out of reality. And it was also Gottwald's fault, so so did the Sobots, except that none of your ministers suggested it! Neither do you, Minister. So it wasn't the last government to take place. There were several other governments within two months. And I really say to the members of the ANO movement, this committee couldn't cancel or suspend anything in terms of what's going on in the police, but your ministers could have done it, or at least they could have tried. So I would hate to see the debate evolve so much that the committee is almost to blame for what happened or didn't happen. The government, the government, and once again the government, and that is where your ministers are, not the ODS ministers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u67	I have no further factual point. Mr Chalupa will wait because the President of the ODS Club will take the floor with priority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u68	I don't think I'm gonna say the microphone I heard in front of me. Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, it is always said that those who are new in politics are very often making excuses for this: we are new, so forgive us. At the same time, there are very experienced manipulators like Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán. Dramatic performance of his performance - number one, maybe underlined. Facts - zero! He questions the report first, then reads the paragraphs he likes, so they're in the report, not that they're not, which is why we said it's balanced, it's not one-sided, but he wants to take responsibility for not doing anything. So let's see what he could have done and what he did. Except for the billboards and the press releases and the dramatic expressions: I'll consider resigning. A worthless sentence. Demise is either served or not. I'll consider it. We'll see. Dramatically. The result? Nothing! Nothing at all. The Minister is trying to tell us that the Minister is like a poor robot. He comes to the Office of the Government, he has a reserved place, a laptop, and he can't really influence what's going to be discussed. It's all Klement Gottwald or Bohuslav Sobotka. [[Laughter and applause of ODS and especially ČSSD.]] [[12.00 hours]] It's not exactly like that. I think we all know that, even those who laugh, and those who don't like it. For example, the Minister of Justice did not propose a discussion with the Government in the section with a debate on, for example, the Information of the Minister of the Interior on the upcoming reorganisation or the Government's position on the forthcoming reorganisation. And he could and could expose his colleagues to a vote in the government. Of course, he didn't have to push that point. We of the opposition know that very well. We design, we don't enforce. But we're still trying and suggesting. Every meeting, every day. And you don't usually comply. And that's normal. He didn't do anything, and he said it was Klement Gottwald or Bohuslav Sobotka. What about me, Pelican? Then he will say on TV - there is nothing to be done about it, the Minister cannot propose a resolution. Again, poor robot. He comes to the government, he sits in his chair, he can't even propose a resolution. He doesn't know what's expected of him to vote with the Prime Minister or the Party Chief. I don't know. It's really hard work. Then let's remember - today he also showed that dramatic performance, as he always looks so... As he carries the weight of the world on his shoulders, he says - I consider demise. He didn't hand it over. He didn't give the resignation. He stayed in that government. What are you complaining about, Minister? To your own government? You've been sitting in it every day since then. That's your reorganization. Yours, not ours. It's your reorganization. You just don't want to admit it. You could have called for a government vote or tried to place a point. I can already see how the Prime Minister would not have complied with you if the Chairman of the YES movement came and said, Prime Minister, I want to place this point. And our strong prime minister, the despot, we all know him, says, "I'm against it! Nothing's gonna happen! The YES movement, nothing at all! Who rules here?! I did! [[Laughs in plenary.]] I guess that's how you feared it would be, and then you didn't file the motion. You should've taken the courage to file the motion. Then it would become clear how the ministers vote YES, how the ministers vote ČSSD and how they would stand today absent and not express themselves on the issue by KDU ministers. That's the best position, of course, because whatever happens, they're with the winner. Because they didn't criticize the loser. But you didn't just put it to the vote to place a point. And I believe that point would pass. Then you could use the constitutional option to ban it from the Home Secretary. And once again, you could put him to the vote and say to the public and to us, "We wanted it, we were outvoted." It's not our reform anymore. It's not our reorganization anymore. We did our best, but these at least nine ministers or nine members of the government, because each member of the government is a minister, so at least these nine members of the government have given a green police reorganization. We did everything we could... You didn't try again. I know it's not easy to lose a vote. We know it from the opposition. These are constitutional solutions. Surprisingly, if he doesn't know it or tells the public it's not possible, Minister, that's surprising, sad. And that the Minister of Justice doesn't know... Who else should have studied all the processes? Like we said, what's not documented isn't disproved. Well, I hope you don't use it in criminal proceedings. That's not disproved, it's not proven, we're still gonna condemn you because you didn't disprove it. Then you had political options to prevent it. The Prime Minister also spoke of it. It's not fun to cause a government crisis. At a time when you would actually resign, not by your chairman's mouth, but by yourself, and not only did he say that you would consider giving a resignation, it would trigger a government crisis. I'm not saying how serious. You've already replaced the Attorney General once, maybe someone else would sit there and move on. Then you had the third option, the strongest, political one, as the YES movement - to leave that government, to terminate the coalition treaty, to create a serious government crisis. But what would you write on those billboards? Why don't you guys just back off and you guys figure it out? What would be wrong with the billboards that Minister Chvojka was showing, currently absent? So the answer is pretty simple. You turned it into a political theater. You used the police - and I blame you most - for the political struggle, yet you have the full mouth of words about the independence of the police, and you used it yourself in the political struggle. The fact that you used some ex-cops as figures in your game is sad, and I think they'll figure it out in time, for example. You have used legitimate concerns in your political work, in your political activity. I must join the criticism of your position with the House. You are a member of the government, the government is accountable to the Chamber of Deputies. And you say I won't allow a vote on this! Well, you're out of line with this proposal! You're here to serve the Minister of Justice. Either you're lying or you can't read, Minister. The Chamber of Deputies calls on the government - the first sentence - to call on the government. Minister Robert Pelikán told us "I am the government" because he says "you want to do my job." A challenge to the government is an assignment for the Minister of Justice. And what does the House of Deputies call for in this proposed resolution if we approve? In order to consider - we should agree that the government has constitutional responsibility for the state prosecutor's activities, so that the sentence is in order - to consider whether to ensure legality - I think that the government should ensure legality - is sufficient for a disciplinary action not brought by the Chamber of Deputies. But if I have good news from the media, the Attorney General has filed a disciplinary action. The independent Attorney General has filed a disciplinary action. And you're just supposed to consider, as a government, and not you as Minister of Justice, whether it's enough to achieve the goal - the legality of the conduct of the Supreme Prosecutor's Office in Olomouc. Is it a bad goal for the High Attorney General in Olomouc to proceed in a legal way? Sounds like the right target to me. Just like any other prosecutor, like the Supreme Attorney's Office. And there were some suspicions of possible misconduct from that report. Some errors are directly described, e.g. that the prosecutor on whom the criminal complaint was filed had been unlawfully given information and provided it to another. That's a hypothesis or suspicion of a committee of inquiry, not mine, I don't know anything about it. And I think to investigate the legality - that it will still be investigated by law enforcement authorities. So what is wrong with ensuring the legality of the prosecutor's office and considering the steps needed to do so? No mission for the government. And you know what the government often does with the resolutions of the Chamber of Deputies. I might remember others, but I don't want to debate elsewhere, but on another occasion, I'll remind myself, the government's recommendation, the government doesn't realize... All we can do is ask the government... And you read it a whole different way, there's no such thing as coming in, making that dramatic expression and saying to us, "No! I will not fulfill the personnel assignment of the Chamber of Deputies! I agree, Minister, I really agree. Do not complete the staff assignment of the Chamber of Deputies. I'll just add the second sentence - no one gave you that assignment! And if this resolution goes through, it's not in him either. So maybe someone else is giving you a personnel assignment and you're used to dealing with it. However, it is certainly not the Chamber of Deputies as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u69	Good noon, ladies and gentlemen, members of the government. Let's keep going. My colleague Chalupa will wait because the Minister of Justice has made a point of fact. Before I give you my word, Minister, I will state my apologies, because I am not sure that they have been read into the protocol. Mr Milan Šarapatka, Mr Jaroslav Zavadil, Mr Michal Kučera, Mr David Kasal and Mr Roman Kubíček apologizes for today's meeting. Mr Petrtýl also apologizes. Minister, you have the floor on a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u70	Thank you. That remark will indeed be purely factual and will relate to the Rules of Procedure of the Government. Meeting of the Government, says Art. Whereas: 2, the Prime Minister and, in his absence, the first Vice-President of the Government or the Prime Minister appointed by another member of the Government. The Prime Minister is always present, so the next one will not be used. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 4 says: The government acts according to the agenda of a government meeting set by the Prime Minister, or possibly. the relevant Vice-President of the Government. Unlike, for example, the Chamber of Deputies, a member of the Government may, of course, propose a point of the agenda, but it is purely up to the President, the Prime Minister, whether or not that item will be included. In contrast to what you imagined, there is no such thing as a vote to place a point in the event that the Prime Minister does not propose it. We tried it on the State Security Council, which follows the same rules. We have proposed several resolutions and these proposals were simply ignored by the Prime Minister at the time. We had no reason to expose ourselves to this awkward situation again in the government itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u71	That was a factual remark made by Minister Robert Pelikán. Mr Petr Fiala's point of order now. And then maybe there'll be a proper debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u72	I'm the third member of the former government to perform here and who doesn't understand Minister Pelikán's argument at all. I cannot imagine that as a minister, I would like a point to be discussed with the government and that I could not agree with the Prime Minister that I would not be able to follow the Rules of Procedure and reach a decision. You've read the government's rules of procedure here. You haven't read the next part of the paragraph. 4, which says that the Government's agenda may be supplemented by an urgent discussion of matters and oral information. In such cases, the appellant shall, as a rule, submit at least a draft Government resolution and the matter shall be dealt with in accordance with the procedure laid down for Part B and so on. Minister, I really do not understand the argument that it was not possible that this did not happen at the government meeting. You didn't even try. You can't argue that way. You as a member of the government, or even the YES movement, if you had any doubts about the reorganisation of the police, I would almost say that it was your political duty to provoke such action in the government and try to change the procedure of Minister Chovanec, which, of course, the government could. You didn't do anything like that, so don't make this ridiculous argument here, don't bend the government's Rules of Procedure, because it clearly gives you those powers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u73	I thank Mr Petr Fial for his time on the point of fact. We will now continue the debate. I will ask Mr Bohuslav Chalupa to take the floor. I will still ask the House for peace so that we can watch the performances. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u74	Thank you for the floor. I think I'm gonna start by saying that he was on TV again this morning, where some reporter speculated that a member of the Chalupa movement from the ANO movement, because he's from the ANO movement, was leaking information. I wonder how Mrs. Romancovová can handle it, whether she calls it misinformation or information. I don't have the information that the gentleman said there were two messages. I don't know where these people come from. Then I was surprised that the MPs behind the ČSSD were as well prepared for this meeting as they presented it here, they probably knew ahead of time how it would be going to take place here, but that is speculation. [[Dissenting voices from the left.]] As far as Mr Dolejš is concerned, Mr Dolejš here is talking again about some fertilizer and basically making his own business card. But I refuse to have a debate at this level. You can keep that at your congress club. As far as my work on the Commission is concerned, I have done my job in accordance with the assignment and mandate as the Chamber of Deputies entrusted it to me. Just to remind you, when the commission's assignment was defined, I suggested an adjustment to a wider commission's assignment. This Chamber of Deputies rejected it. And I think I know why here today. Because, of course, all of us who are a little oriental know that the police president and the minister have some competence. The assignment from the beginning was so that we couldn't actually find out much on the committee. So let's drink this wine. I'll keep going. The investigation committee worked all the time in the boards, as I said, what the House has defined for us. There were a number of comments, a number of votes, a number of suggestions, which, like my colleagues who submitted it, some were not voted on. The Commission operates as a whole, that is to say, votes are being taken and what is voted majorityally is, in fact, a resolution or other work of the Commission. One of these cases, when I failed, was the proposal to call Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka, unanimously rejected, not just the Prime Minister, but the Head of the Security Council of the State. I thought it was entirely legitimate to demand that the country's Prime Minister explain why and on what basis he agreed to violate the existing coalition treaty, or the promise of government to the citizens of this country, about how it would be, or we would work in their favour. Yesterday it was said, I think from Minister Zaorálek, that following the agreed rules is what must be an essential part of our work, the work of legislators. Especially when we disagree with the majority opinion. I add, if we are unable to accept our own rules, either in this or in that field, in executive or in politics, i.e. democratic principles of political struggle, then there is nothing good for us. In this sense, from the point of view of competences and legislative standards, as this honourable institution has defined throughout its activities, including with regard to the competences of ministers, executives and so on, the final report is based and only respects the rules that this House has established, sooner or later, or will determine them in the future. On what we agreed unanimously, I will not change a word because I will not make a tearing calendar out of my mouth. And as the Commission President and colleague Lank have said here, the Minister simply cannot appear in the report. But I agree on the other hand, and I'm saying it completely honestly, and that's what I mean. Just because it hasn't been proven doesn't mean it didn't happen. The Commission has very anxiously avoided this issue with a legitimate appeal to the House's already mentioned second, no less significant aspect of the entire reorganisation of the Police of the Czech Republic, and this is the overall political culture, political responsibility and political adjustment of the rules of the game. And in that sense, I am very disillusioned and actually disappointed. I believe that, in this case and in the light of the above, there has been a situation where the executive, which, by targeting and operating, depends on the political will of democratically elected Members and government coalitions, which commit themselves to their citizens and voters by their electoral programs and the government by means of a programming declaration, undertakes not only to direct the executive in a direction that the citizen is asking for and requiring. In my view, neither in this case nor in the future can it be accepted that the executive will behave arrogantly towards the legislature. I can't. And if I am a Member, I will defend this mandate very strongly. I will strongly oppose thinking in the sense that the Home Office has shown us: it is none of your business, it is our business, the matter of us senior or lower officials, whether in civilian or uniforms. Not them, but we are responsible to the citizens of this country for the functioning of the state, and therefore also the executives, i.e. the Police of the Czech Republic. We are the ones who determine or should determine the trajectory of our country's direction. I take it for granted that, as the holder of the mandate of a Member, I have the right and duty to check that the political ambitions mediated by the will of the people are being fulfilled and that I have the right to correct it permanently in an executive way so that the government is fulfilling its promises to citizens. The first promise at the very beginning of any government's ruling is that programme statement built on the basis of a coalition treaty. What exactly am I talking about? You have the right idea, I am talking about a completely flagrant violation of the coalition government's promise, a violation of the programming declaration that has been presented not only to this House but to the citizens of this country, and I do not agree with some Members here and from the opposition that it does not concern them. It concerns them because this government rules us all. [[12.20 hours]] It is certainly no secret for either of us, regardless of political affiliation, that there is nothing pleasing about how the public perceives us, how politicians judge us and how we have authority, credibility, and therefore legitimacy. [[President: I ask for peace in the House.]] Why is that? Well, it is for reasons similar to how the Czech Police reorganisation took place. How the rules and promises that we have voluntarily accepted have been broken. Now I'm talking more about the coalition. To remind you, I quote Article 1.11.1 from the coalition contract of the Government's programming declaration. "We will maintain the basic organizational structure of the Police of the Czech Republic, Police Presidium, all-republiky departments and 14 Regional Police Directorates. In case of inefficient operation, we will propose the establishment of one organizational body of the state or the modification of the current system within the Police of the Czech Republic. - We didn't come across any facts in the course of that committee of inquiry that testified that somebody had ever defined that units with national competence were operating inefficiently. The less it was designed or discussed somewhere. I'm sorry, but following what I've just quoted, I can only say that the ČSSD is, in this sense, an untrustworthy and faithless party. The way you, colleagues, have approached the police's reorganisation in direct connection and, in short, the Prime Minister - politician, minister - politician, police president appointed by that minister, the deputy appointed by that police president, you have contributed to the next... [[Some Members discuss it in a row.]] I'd like some peace. I let you talk, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u75	I'll settle for peace, Mr. Ambassador. I'll cut you off and ask my colleagues to take their seats and listen to your speech calmly. I'll give my word to anyone who applies properly. I have six factual remarks so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u76	This has contributed to the further significant discrediting of the policy of all of us sitting here. Then there are any activities of the type e.g. a center for combating terrorism and hybrid threats only by idle gestures that don't solve anything if people don't trust us. And it's not about mistakes that we can and do and we will commit, but it's about credibility. If people don't believe us, then we don't have much chance of being those who do their job well, for which we have been given a mandate from the people. For the sake of illustration, I wonder how it all went down. How is it that people who are stupid, incompetent, immoral, incompetent are placed in the most responsible positions in the state executive? People who cause damage. Colonels, generals, deputy directors, officials. Why do I say that? Because that is often said by those who put them in their place in one way or another. And it happens especially when these people start to behave differently than expected. So they have to be replaced because they're not actually going on the key. They're not the robots. I do not understand how it is possible to praise, reward, exalt someone for years, but at some point and in a very short time, to set things up so that they are actually expressed by distrust that their position is actually a mistake. And I refer to the coalition agreement article that something worked inefficiently. There was no such thing. Either these confirmed truths are that those people there are incompetent, and then those who deserved that these people are there deserve to be punished. Or they don't tell the truth, and then they deserve to be punished even more. The organizational changes of this type and meaning do not really excuse the fact that the responsible person, in this case the deputy, was not able to manage his position. And it is even more surprising for me that such a person is soon moved, even though she has actually left the service for health reasons, it is moved again to another important place, namely the Czech Post. That's the kind of hoodlums, hoodlums, move. And this has nothing to do with it, it really has nothing to do with credibility, and it's more like it's connected with the rejected atmosphere of clientelism and corruption. You've all had your mouth full of Andrej Babiš. I thank you for the ad, but you should each be concerned about having your own house covered before you criticize others. This is how the weighing, and I see it more and more clearly, some part of it is built by executive power in this state. And that's our problem, that's how it works in this state. In many cases it is not the expertise that decides, but clientelism, lollipop, false loyalty and incompetence. If they did this, for example. In Israel, so would they - do you know where? I'm not even gonna say it. But luckily there works for them differently. There's a lieutenant, if he's right and he can defend it and prove his abilities, he'll have a chance, and the general must command without apologies, because if he didn't, Israel doesn't exist anymore. So let's see how it works differently, and let's start thinking about why this state still works as bad as it does. First conclusion. We have high time to think about these symptoms of a deadly disease in our society and quickly continue the recovery process and to enable those who have proven themselves to have done something in life and have managed to fix the country. Talking heads really, really don't. Otherwise, there's nothing good to be done...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u77	Please, Mr. Ambassador, just a moment... Ladies and gentlemen, if you are discussing anything other than the final report of the commission of inquiry, please be in the foyer. If you wish to comment on the speech of the Member, of course you have the right to do so, but after a proper application. The rest of you, I ask for peace! And the other discussions in the foyer. We'll wait... I'm serious. Thank you, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u78	From my point of view and from what I've become familiar with in the course of the investigation, there are too many more or less related coincidences in the case of reorganisation. Unfortunately, no commission of inquiry can prove an unfair intention where for example. Suddenly, the salary increase is realized. It's been talked about for a long time, but it's never been realized. And suddenly, within a few days of expressing the discontent of a part of the members of the IOOZ, it is decided on a quite decent salary increase. And once again, by chance, disgruntled voices will be silent and just real men, I won't tell you who they have to keep their spines straight. And it's not about whether Colonel Šlachta got an offer or not. If I were him, I'd give up on you, too. Another example. While the investigating authorities were concerned with finding out where and where some text was headed from. And their findings turned out to be completely wrong, thanks to the committee. The fact remains that the SMS was actually sent from Mr. Tesařík, not the other way around. But wonder to the world, no one knew who was the recipient of the SMS, which Mr Tesařík proved and in a clear context with the whole problem of the investigation, where corruption and hundreds of millions of crowns were involved, reported on what was happening or is to be done. What is even more wonderful and striking, the police did not spare the most important - who is or was the source that Mr Tesařík mentioned in his SMS and who was the one who delivered and delivered police sensitive information to Mr Tesařík and probably warned the suspect that the source was not one of the very close surroundings of the police president. And I warn you, as a politician, I have the right to speculate on this, some of it, or some of it, because I've listened to it and I don't take it individually and I don't take it as circumstantial evidence. I'll take that as a sort of system procedure for how the reorganisation was actually carried out. Like me, I don't mean to chop it into individual parts and judge it separately. In other words, just so we're clear about the texts. No one can confirm or deny that the source wasn't someone close to the police president. We've already heard about this phone. The Commission has not demonstrated this. It doesn't mean that things didn't happen. That's what happened. We just don't know because wiretaps are canceled after six months, so this country will never know what really happened. This is how the Police of the Czech Republic and GIBS worked. bohužel, too bad. What a coincidence that after six months, telecommunications records are being erased and we have nothing. As they say, where there's nothing, death doesn't take and the villain laughs. [[12.30 hours]] Escapes from police and GIBS environments have clearly occurred. Unfortunately, we didn't prove how, we didn't find out, we didn't have thumbnails or a rack, so the committee just couldn't. Someone's briefed the wanted persons. And I have no doubt that what we've come across is certainly not an isolated case. Personally, I believe, and after reading and listening during the investigation committee, I have the right to see it this way again, that it was and is probably still a criminal and established activity for some of the policemen, with which they have no problem. Because that's how it's worked for decades, that somebody's just been hanging out with someone, exchanging information, going to meetings, see the last birthday party of somebody, and so on. [[The noise in the hall.]] The way they talk about themselves, their superiors or subordinates, not insignificant police members, and what they discuss with them is equally warning. But it's not strictly criminal. The Commission assessed this legally correctly as inconclusive or indirect evidence. She couldn't have done anything else. But the fact that the committee hasn't proved it doesn't mean, at least to me, that the police are in good shape. And please, I'm not talking about regular cops on the streets, in investigation teams, in URNA, but I'm talking about cops on white collars. There's been talk of reorganisation for years. It's true. Since 1993, there has been talk of different scopes of reorganisation. Over time, many interested parties have changed their attitude by 180 degrees. It concerns not only Colonel Šlachta, but also Deputy Minister Laube, former Deputy Police Minister Laube. Since 1993, this has been mentioned, and suddenly, in the course of 14 days, somebody decided out of the blue to reorganize, coincidentally before the regional elections, regardless of the fact that, for example, in the police president presented the concept of development of the Police of the Czech Republic, there was no mention of any reorganisation. Similarly, the national safety audit of the Czech Republic as certainly valuable analytical material, on the basis of which systemic changes should be made leading to higher efficiency of the capabilities of the Security Corps of the Police of the Czech Republic, was still in a state of development. By the way, as there has been a long talk of reorganisation, there have also been clear ambitions in certain circles to remove Colonel Šlachta from the leadership of an independent and anti-pressurized business and policy unit for combating organised crime for a very long time. Is it a coincidence that, on the contrary, the inclusion of the national drug centre is being announced well in advance and will be discussed in detail? The Minister did not have information that there was a roar between the ÚOKFK and the ÚOOZ. Mr. Police President and Deputy Director Laube also had no such information. And all of a sudden, we realized that it wasn't, and that, in fact, such roaring was here, not for a month or a year, but for years. And these two formations, these people who weren't very close to each other, were violently and very quickly merged. Do we really think, Dear House, that these people are 100% efficient at the moment and that they are able to work effectively and cooperate? Do we really think that we have helped the police with such a realized reorganisation that, as politicians, we have given a signal about depoliticizing and strengthening its independence? I don't share this feeling, I'm sorry, I don't share it. The merger of both departments was evidently and proven without the necessary preparatory phase, without consultation with the prosecutors and the professional public, without discussion with coalition partners and without discussion in the Security Committee. We're talking about a major step. The merger of two departments with national competence, i.e. the elements of the Police of the Czech Republic, whose working relations were not ideal. Isn't that a lot of coincidences at the same time? But the committee couldn't prove them. Coincidence is coincidence. So are we going to blame active police officers for suspicion, including, for example, wearing wiretaps that never happen without the consent of the state's attorney and judge? We're paying for it. We pay them to be vigilant and suspicious. Otherwise, it doesn't have to be there or we don't have to pay it. We pay them not to be afraid to go for them as well as the life of dangerous things, where criminals stand on the other side of equipment with unimaginable financial resources and contacts, acquaintances and so on. Are we going to force the prosecutors to confide cases to those who are known in advance that they have neither the competence nor the courage to investigate matters for various reasons? It is undoubtedly for our further discussion here in the House and I believe it will be very detailed. It is quite likely that some of the people I mention here are giggling at the moment: what you, Mr. Ambassador, can do to me. I'm sure there's something we can do. Regardless of the committee's conclusions, we can and we will. The Commission ceased its activities six months after the reorganisation and establishment of the National Centre for the fight against organised crime. That's an indisputable fact. The indisputable fact remains that the IOOZ no longer exists, that his then boss Robert Šlachta is now working with the Customs Administration. As the changes made by Minister Chovanc and Police President Tuhý for the approval of Prime Minister Sobotka show, time and, of course, our permanent attention. I refuse to see the whole process of reorganisation as an individual activity. On the contrary, everything consists of a complex of knowledge, a mutual context, which consists in an overall picture of the state of quality of various levels of relations within the Police of the Czech Republic, between the police and prosecutors, between this circle and another circle of judges and between this circle and another circle, the Ministry of Interior and politics. It can therefore be agreed that the reorganisation was not a sabotage in the sense of how it worked and how the House was commissioned, but it was a change made within the framework of the laws and rules approved by this legislature. So it's the responsibility of all of us for the reorganisation. However, this in itself does not in any way say anything about the real motivation for its implementation. And I must say, for me personally, there remains a very strong aftertaste of something bad. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u79	That was Mr Bohuslav Chalupa. The number of factual comments has spread, I will read them so that you know in what order the factual comments will be. Mr Libor Jakubčík's first factual comment, then Minister Milan chovanec, then Mr Pavel Kováčik, then Member Jana Černochová, Member Pavel Blažek, Roman Sklenák, František Adámek and Jiří Petrů. That's the order of actual remarks, then we'll continue. I now ask Mr Igor Jakubčík to take the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u80	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would have responded very briefly, only in my remarks to my colleague Chalupa. He here expressed the amazement that some of his proposals were not approved that the commission was not discussing them. I think that's crying on the wrong grave because the commission is a democratic body and I think that the commission should function democratically and not as a company. First thing. Second thing. There was a slight amazement that the commission followed the assignment of the Chamber of Deputies. The Commission is called a parliamentary committee of inquiry, not a company committee of inquiry. Things about whether or not there were any newsstands or quotes, we've already had newsstands here before. And I find that now the same thing has happened again, see the example of Colonel Šlachta. Finally, only a small seed bead, why ČSSD MEPs react so quickly. ČSSD MPs are smart, intelligent, readable, I dare say they're beautiful, which means the hour was enough for them. [[Laughing in the hall]] If an hour isn't enough to read that message, I don't know, I don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u81	Well, thank you. And please respect each other's performances. Anyone who wants to sign up has a chance to do it for a while. Please, Minister, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u82	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my colleague Jakubčík has offered me a small replica that, Igor, although we are smart and fast, so they are smarter and faster, see Mr Chalupa, who was able to write a seven-page speech in an hour, so he is certainly faster than we are. [[Laughing from the left side of the hall]] You should admit it. In essence, there has been a lot of untruth here, Mr colleague, through Mr President. You know, you tried behind the President's back. Want to call a committee where you wanted to set up Kubice's case, alias Šlachtův's report two. I witnessed a prosecutor bringing this report to the committee and saying, for God's sake, hopefully the media will never see it. Well, the fragments from the report immediately started printing Lidové noviny and the Mladá fronta, immediately, almost online. When you look at the media hunt that was here, 60 percent were in the hands of the Lidové noviny and the Mladá fronta, these articles. Journalists Koutník and Shabu, fragments from wiretaps, fragments from live cases, wiretaps, speculations and other things. [[12.40 hours]] And I would be very interested, Mr Chalupa, through Mr President, for you had in your hand the exact same evidence that Mr Šlachta and Mr Komárek had, and your commission with the same evidence was unable to accuse the police president or anyone else. So what did these people use to make public accusations? You had the exact same wiretaps, the exact same results in each protocol, you had the exact same material that they had. You're saying and you're crying over spilled milk that someone's swept something under the carpet. But the police president of the inspector general, not the police, has been investigating for months. That means nothing's missing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u83	Minister, even for you, a factual remark is only two minutes. So there's nothing I can do but take your word for it. If you sign up for a proper debate, of course you can also exercise your priority right. Now, President Pavel Kováčik, then Mrs Černochová in order. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u84	Sorry, like. [[Laughter on the left.]] What are you saying, Mr Chalupa, through Mr President? What are you trying to put in our heads? Your preaching about the rules, yes, would, I would say, be very appropriate if it were to apply to what is to apply to all of us and to citizens, and these are the laws. We're supposed to follow those, after all, by my judgment, and according to my information and information from the media, including the Mafra media, she brought them. Where the commission found fault, she filed a criminal complaint. Where, in my opinion, the Commission found error in those rules, it proposed a resolution, or a motion for a resolution, which, even in that hour, we were able to judge quite well and treat each other. But the rule is not a coalition contract. It is not exactly what you have said here through the President that we must respect that you rule us. We don't sit there in that government, we didn't even vote for a government statement, we didn't sign a coalition agreement. After all, I have heard that not all government MPs have signed a coalition agreement, some have had some reservations and only signed that they have been familiar with it. That's irrelevant now. So the coalition agreement doesn't apply to us. And I repeat again what I said a while ago. Deal with coalition disputes elsewhere, don't bring it here! Maybe make yourself a pair of shirts. Or - and these are my two questions in conclusion: Why are you sitting there in that coalition with that unreliable partner, why are you there? Is it better to be in government than to follow the rules? I guess so. Why did you vote for the committee when you attacked the results of the committee? And I'm not even asking where the information that the Home Secretary was talking about came from. And the conclusion. The things you're saying here are serious, very serious. [[The President speaks with the speaker: I will take the floor with you, Mr President, because...]] Apply them to the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u85	Excuse me, I'll turn off your microphones after two minutes. Please follow the rules of the factual remark or apply properly to the debate. Now, Mrs Jana Černochová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u86	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would also like to respond to this deus ex machina performance by my colleague Chalupa. You know, I suppose and I hope we don't suffer from memory loss in this House. What my colleague Chalupa was saying here, maybe anyone else could be trusted, but not him. It was me who repeatedly suggested to the Fayad case committee here. And they were ANO colleagues who blocked it. Why do you think? They blocked it because their Secretary of Stropnický is sitting at the Ministry of Defense, who doesn't know what he doesn't know. Remember the press conference. Mr. Chalupa is the chairman of the commission that deals with Military Intelligence, and to make matters worse, Mr. Pelikán also sits in the government from the ANO movement, who did nothing but instruct the Minister of Justice to negotiate in the Fayad case by letter from his brother Pelikán. These were all the things we wanted to hear on the Fayad case committee. You've blocked it for us. So what are you guys playing at? And just like my colleague Kováčik said here. You sat there, Mr Chalupa, through the Vice-President. You voted for it. You know, it must be really hard for you. I'm sure you must have gotten a terrible lens in the YES movement. I saw it from my desk when Mr. Pelikán read the report on you. [[Fun.]] I assume you didn't write that speech. Because it's really impossible to write seven pages in an hour. So please don't play us here. Don't act like you're the only one who's righteous. No one here believes you anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u87	Thank you, Mrs Černochová, for keeping the time to make a point of fact. She was the first. President Blažek also made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u88	Thank you. The President is no longer President, fortunately I haven't been for two days. [[The President laughs: We are not finished yet...]] I'm just kidding. I'm just in response to Mr. Chalupa. I know his views, of course, until now we've been sitting on that committee. I would even say that with a lot of things, as he describes the current executive power, including the government, I can only agree as an opposition MP. And I would just like so much to remind not only him, but the entire club YES that the Constitution uses a beautiful word of trust. Three years ago, you expressed your confidence in this entire government. Not only Andrej Babiš or Martin Stropnický, but also Minister Chovanc and so on. Listening to hypocritical statements here, like you're not in that government, and you're in it. You didn't withdraw that trust. And I don't have anything to call off. I have never expressed any confidence in this government. When I observe the police crisis, I am not ashamed of this decision. And until you recant your trust, this government will work, and the police reform will continue to evolve through the swamp of black rocks. But it's your responsibility, even if the government is all of us, but you trust it. I don't. As for one more page on which I would like to comment. I also disagreed with the argument that I have often heard in the media that it is actually just a matter of the Minister of the Interior and the Police President who will be in the police. I refuse her. Again, speaking of February, February, these are literally the words of Václav Nosek from that time, and whatever is happening in the armed forces of this state is, of course, a matter for all of us. So I would like to make this argument publicly here that I consider it completely untrue from the start. And it was one of the mistakes that the reform was making, without any discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u89	I thank Mr Blažek. Mr Roman Sklenák is now also making a point of fact. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u90	Thank you for the floor. In response to my colleague Chalupa's speech. You, as representatives of the ANO movement, have surrounded the Republic with billboards in autumn. "We deserve a better Czech Republic without politicians who destroy independent police" and similar. You have used police, police leaders and prosecutors in your political struggle in an unprecedented way. And today, the committee here noted that this entire campaign, which ran on billboards, in the press, in your press, in the press of Andrej Babiš, was designed and manipulative. And you, my colleague, through the President, are telling me in this situation that the ČSSD is untrustworthy? I'm leaning towards what my colleague Kováčik said. Really, let's not bring in a coalition contract. The coalition contract is between ČSSD, YES and KDU-ČSL and we do not have to deal with this here in front of others. This is not a question of parliamentary land. I don't want to look like our predecessors in the past period, where they've been talking about whether K Six meets or K Nine. I didn't give a damn about it. But speaking of which, which part do you consider corrupted? We will maintain the basic organizational structure, i.e. the Police Presidium, all-republiky departments and 14 Regional Police Directorates. That's true. Then leave the coalition contract with the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u91	I thank Prime Minister Sklenák for keeping time. Now, Mr František Adámek, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u92	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, Members of the Government, I must stand up for Mr Chalupa a little. The message, please, wasn't meant for us at all. That was a defense for his bosses. Don't any of you get it? That was for the fact that he had to raise his hand as part of the democratic principles that carried him in the commission's work. And now he just had to defend himself in some way. At least that's how I see it. And as for, let's just say, the reservations that were made in his speech and, above all, speculation, I think he's on his rounds on the committee to assess whether there's anything wrong with the truth at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u93	Thank you, Mr. František Adámek. Mr. Jiří Petrů now. And I will ask for a service - I accidentally greased Mr Daniel Korte's entries in the debate to return it to me. I didn't like to do it. I'd hate to take his order. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I, once again, to my fellow Member Chalupa. At the beginning of his performance, I said, I planted, I wanted the committee of inquiry to be on this matter. At the end of his speech, he said: no committee of inquiry can find out anything. Well, I'm out of my mind. Just the split, Mr. Colleague... Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u95	Thank you. Now Minister Chvojka reports with a factual remark. Thank you this time for keeping time from everyone else. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u96	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'll tell you a deep secret. Through you, Mr. Vice-President, I am of Mr. Boba Chalupa, as he is called, I think he is a very smart man. I'm sorry about one thing. I don't think we're gonna see him here anymore, but let's wait until the next election. [[Glee in the hall.]] But I'm sorry about one thing about his speech. He used a lot of argument fouls. Probably the basic argument foul is: It was said something, our group press wrote it, it didn't prove it, but that doesn't mean it didn't happen. That could've happened when it didn't show up, couldn't it? It's as if I'd heard in the House's gallows that you were harassing a minor dog, now it wouldn't have been proven that you were harassing him, it would have proved that you wouldn't know the difference between a dog and a cat, but we'll just keep saying, "It didn't work out, but there's something about it, Bob Chalupa probably molested a minor dog." There's just something that hasn't been proven, that's just not how it is. And this unfair argument that something might have happened, something has been said, but it hasn't been proven, but I guess that's how it could have happened, that's ridiculous. That's an argument foul you can't use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u97	Thank you to Minister Chvojka for keeping time. Now, Mr Chalupa's factual remark, Mr Seďa, will prepare himself for a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u98	Thank you for the floor. Some may have listened badly, so I again: I did not propose a commission, I suggested a Security Committee be convened. I was the first person to design this place. So that's it. My colleague voted in the Committee on Military Intelligence for the final explanation by the Minister. I don't know why it's opening up here right now because you finally agreed to it. I didn't mess around, that was discussed on the committee. And you know it. And you agreed to the way the Chief of Military Intelligence and the Minister argued. It took longer, but you finally raised your hand for it. Moreover, I am a Member, I am not even a Member of the Government, I am a Member of the citizens of the Czech Republic, I speak for myself, not for Col. I'm talking for myself. I voted for the report, and I say it again, I don't take a word back, I signed it, and I didn't question it. All I'm saying is that very interesting coincidences happened here within 14 days or three weeks and a reorganisation took place, which was planned since 1993, before the regional elections, was destroyed by the ÚOOZ and disappeared colonel. Šlachta. That's all I'm saying. And the citizens will take it from here. I have nothing more to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u99	Thank you, Mr Chalupa. Now, Mr Antonín Seďa, Mr Fichtner will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u100	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Just a few notes on the performance of my colleague Chalupa. This has already been done - violation of the coalition agreement, or the government's programming statement, if this has happened, they are to deal with coalition parties, not the commission of inquiry. Secondly, the questioning of the report by the commission of inquiry is shameful to me. Third point - please do not confuse and confuse the competence of the executive and the legislature. Perhaps it would be appropriate to study the Constitution of the Czech Republic and the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. For another - your medialization and politicalization of the material problem was shameful, faithless and selfless. For the next - please do not budge with the mandate of the citizens, you have deceived the citizens by this cause. You have done them harm, but you have hurt the credibility of law enforcement authorities in particular. And I'm most sorry about that. Finally, I can assure my colleague Chalupa by your means, Mr President, that I have a clear conscience in this case and, unlike you, I have a clear conscience in this case.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u101	I thank Mr Antonín Seďa. Now, Mr Matěj Fichtner and Mrs Černochová will prepare herself for a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u102	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would return to what Mrs Černochová said here. She pointed out that Mr Chalupa probably did not write his speech in an hour because it was extensive, yes, I suppose it took him more than an hour. However, I would like to point out that we should note how those Members from different parties are prepared for this debate. Mr Chalupa, of course, prepared the speech for a long time, certainly. But also why? Of course, because he had an approach to what he was going to talk about for a long time. He was a member of the investigation committee, and there was some final resolution, a final report, so he could respond in advance, which is nothing abnormal. He just sat at home with his computer, started writing his speech, that's perfectly normal. What is striking, however, is that so are some ČSSD MPs who were not even members of the committee of inquiry. They even have some props printed here that are pulling out here, etc. I have nothing, because I learned about the report, the particular text, this morning, so I gradually studied it. I will then sign up for the proper debate. Now I'm not gonna take advantage of the de facto remark. But what I wanted to say is that it is really interesting that I did not know the report, because Mr Chalupa did not, of course, share the content with me, because the content was not public until it was submitted. So I don't know how it works with the ČSSD, so I guess that information is shared in a different way. But in our country, it works standard by law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u103	I thank Mr Fichtner. Now, Mrs Jana Černochová, with a point of fact. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u104	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. In that case, it works even worse at the ANO team than we thought. Because if Mr Chalupa was preparing his seven-page speech, it is quite sad that he did not introduce you to that speech as members of the club. Maybe it wasn't my colleague Faltýnek, it was my colleague Chalupa, who was a member of the committee. And I'm sure he could tell you some information that wasn't in the regime. About what my colleague Chalupa said. He's lying again. I didn't see any comprehensive report from the Secretary of Defense. Mr. Beroun didn't give it to me because he said he was just commenting verbally because the report wasn't public. Even though I have a background check by law, like all of you, I still have a background check on the National Security Bureau to grade T. Yet no one, a comprehensive report, has introduced me to this report. Only verbally this report - verbally - was commented by Mr. Beroun. No offense, but there are a lot of colleagues here who would also like to know how it all happened and what happened. They didn't have the information. We had it limited. And you're reprimanding someone who's been working on this investigation committee for hours, really long hours, slowly for days, and who's made these conclusions? It really seems to me that you can't quite see yourself in the mouth, if there's anything like this here, you can put up with criticism like that on the heads of your colleagues who worked on that committee. It's shameful!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u105	Thank you, Mrs Jana Černochová. I'll cancel the meeting by 2:30. Ladies and gentlemen, in agreement with the Presidents of the Clubs, we will continue at 14.30 hours with oral interpelations. Please note that there are very few oral interventions, a part of the Members have decided to withdraw the oral question to complete the discussion, so I expect all of us to attend, and I am glad that we can continue. We will therefore continue with oral interpelations, after their exhaustion we will continue with this item, i.e. the final report of the committee of inquiry, by factual remarks by Martin Lank and František Adámek and then by the duly registered Mr Daniel Kort, who I apologize once again for the deletion from the applications. That's all. Enjoy your meal, and I expect you to meet me at 2:30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-002-297.u106	Hello, everyone. We will continue to discuss the agenda for today's meeting. The next item is
