ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u1	24. Government bill amending Act No. 111/1994 Coll., on Road Transport, as amended, and other related laws /house print 998/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, Dan Ťok, the Minister of Transport, will state the draft bill. Minister, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u2	Mr Vice-President, honourable Member, honourable Members, the main objective of the proposed bill is to regulate licensing procedures in scheduled passenger bus transport, to regulate the operation of taxi services, to extend the authorisation of municipalities to issue specific requirements for the operation of taxi services on their territory, to punish more effectively administratively fundamental violations of legal obligations and the black operation of taxi services. The draft law also contains a set of partial formal adjustments to administrative punishment in the Road Transport Act following the adoption of the new Act on Liability for Misdemeanors and the Regulation on Misdemeanors. The Ministry of Transport, as well as the Guarantee Economic Committee, takes a recommendation on amendments which specify the draft law on the assessment of the reliability of the taxi driver and regulate the proof of the integrity of foreigners. [[There's a lot of noise in the hall!]] Other amendments concerning taxi intermediaries or the introduction of another type of taxi service, transport based on previous electronic order via digital platforms, are not recommended by the Ministry of Transport or -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u3	I apologize, Minister, for entering into your speech, but I will ask you, colleagues and colleagues, to keep your voice down. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u4	So I'll take that paragraph again. Other amendments concerning taxi intermediaries or the introduction of another type of taxi service, transport on the basis of a previous electronic order via digital platforms are not recommended by the Ministry of Transport or the Economic Committee. Finally, I would like to say that the amendment proposed by the Government does not explicitly address the arrival of modern technologies, but it is already possible to do business in the taxi service using modern technologies in accordance with the law. The Ministry of Transport is actively involved in the new concept of taxi service in the future and possible conceptual changes are discussed at the meetings of the working group, which are attended by representatives of the competent authorities and the professional public. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u5	Thank you, too, Minister. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 998/1 and 2. I ask that the rapporteur of the Economic Committee, Mr Karel Šidlo, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and of any possible amendments. I will ask you, my colleague and colleagues, to be patient, because the rapporteur will arrive in a matter of minutes. He went for some background material to discuss this point. [[He's waiting.]] So, the rapporteur has arrived, we can continue to discuss this point. I will ask you, rapporteur, to take the floor and inform us of the committee's discussion of the proposal and to justify any amendments to this press. Breathe calmly and please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and all of you in a moment, because it was very quick for me. I left one of the legislative technical proposals in the office, so I had to run for him. Now to the resolution of the Economic Committee. At its 53rd meeting on 31 May of this year, the Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the 998 press. His resolution is that he recommends that the Chamber of Deputies discuss and approve the House press as amended by the amendments approved. These amendments are included in the press 998/2, you have them available on the database of the Chamber of Deputies. So that is all for the rapporteur's report so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u7	Thank you. I am opening a general debate in which I am registering one application, Mr Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u8	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have loaded two amendments into the system, one under number 6423 and one under number 6624. So then, in detail, I'm going to apply. Just for a little while. You know that shared services are coming on the market, there has already been talk about it, big discussions on the Economic Committee. The predecessor of a moment ago, a confirmed president, tried to communicate in some way with the providers of these new forms of business, and they didn't get any results. I confess that both amendments are being led by an effort that, if we want to avoid chaos in this business, legal regulations should be adopted. I am very helpful to the debate on the Economic Committee next Tuesday, 4 June, which is also legislatively quite all right, what the Ministry of Transport has and does not have a problem with. So I don't want to escalate it. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, not only in this matter, it is, of course, everything known to Uber. They'll come here both in the banking sector and in transport, it's already here in the banking sector, in the accommodation it's already running, just these shared services. But we cannot, on the one hand, burden classical business in this field with a huge amount of regulation, responsibilities and so on, and on the other hand, that there will be absolutely no regulation, without supervision and freelance someone doing more or less the same, but without any regulation with others, with a fraction of the cost and so on. So this is what motivated the two of my designs. You seem to have received some kind of notification from the AAA or an opinion on the amendments. I'll save it for the debate on Tuesday at the Economic Committee. There's something I'm suggesting that he agrees with and that he doesn't. This will be entirely at the debate, and then the Economic Committee will take a position on this. So then I'm going to sign up for those two numbers in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u9	Thank you, too. The next duly applied is Mrs Pekarová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u10	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I am also proposing an amendment, and I would like to justify it in a small way. I present a proposal that aims to move the transport services market to the 21st century. At a time when the vast majority of cars are equipped with GPS technology, I do not consider it justified for those interested in carrying out a taxi service's occupation when entering the market to be placed a barrier in the form of proof of the knowledge of the site. I believe that the transport services market is currently far too regulated. The rules required by the taxicab drivers arose at a time when no one knew the speed at which technological progress would move forward. But we now know that, and we have the opportunity to dismiss some of those already meaningless rules from the law. Let us release our hands to transport providers, remove a pointless obstacle to entry into the transport services market and create a healthy competitive environment. Instead of loosening the rules, the Ministry of Transport is presenting us with a reactionary proposal that ties the transport services market even more. That's the government's business card. Controlle, create new and new obstacles that make it difficult for future entrepreneurs to enter the market. I therefore propose an amendment which responds to the newly proposed obligation for taxi drivers to undergo a transport-psychological examination as a condition for starting or offering a taxi service in the territory of the municipality. I consider this condition to be an unwarranted obstacle to the right to free enterprise, which complicates access to the market for taxi drivers. Contrary to the freedom of business, there also seems to be a new authority for municipalities to speak to taxi drivers, for example, into what their cars should be the color of the body. I believe that this new regulation can deprive certain entities of the possibility of participating in competition on the market. I beg you to support my amendment, which alleviates the barriers to entry into the passenger transport market and at the same time protects this market from new nonsense rules. I beg you to support a proposal that does not aim to move back to the last century, but, on the contrary, to finally bounce back and move back to the 21st century. In a detailed debate, I would like to sign up for an amendment, so I am applying for it, and it has a number of 6634, so you will find it in your systems. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u11	Thank you, too, Madame. Now with priority rights, the rapporteur. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me make this very brief. I have been asked by legislation both by the House and by the Ministry of Transport to apply for legislative technical adaptations. There are two, I will read them in detail in the detailed debate that I am reporting to. And for the record, the first legislative technical regulation concerns an error in the text and the second legislative technical regulation concerns a correction of the date of effectiveness. Which is basically logical to move to the real term the effectiveness of a law that is still being approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u13	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Blažek is now duly registered. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u14	Hello. Thank you for the floor. I would just like to follow up on my colleague, Mr Laudát. I would like to support his proposal, he has actually said almost everything here, but I will add one more thing, and this is an unpleasant international dimension of the so-called shared economy, which clearly discriminates against our citizens. About what? It's very simple. So the Czech citizen, if he wants to taxi, so to speak, must meet the conditions for the concession, that is, for the strictest trade licenses that exist under our rules, while, and that is mostly the case, foreign companies under such a nice neoplasm called shared economy - it sounds nice because it seems to be extremely advantageous for consumers - they do not have to meet any such conditions. This means, if I admit the existence of what is called a shared economy, for example, in a taxi service under the current conditions for our Czech citizens, this clearly discriminates against our own citizens, which is an unprecedented thing, such a state probably does not exist in the world, which would give stricter conditions to its own citizens for business than to foreign ones. So I would like to join this proposal and consider this proposal entirely correct. And when it comes to a shared economy, they warn against it in other areas, because it is also close to me, so that everything is cheap and so on, so be it, but then for our citizens, let us also abolish the regulations. Maybe there doesn't have to be regulations in the cab drivers. That is a question for the legislator, or for us, but if they have them, let the non-citizens of our state do the same for the business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u15	Thank you, too. Now, Mr Kučera. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u16	Hello. Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, here the term shared economy has been repeated several times. I can assure my previous speaker that here in these proposals, or in a business that we are trying to regulate in some way or liberalize, there is no shared economy, not on either side of those performing entities. The fact that it has some features of a shared economy is possible, but it is a shared economy - or, as I might understand it, I understand a shared economy as an economy where I share the cost of my means or, as a matter of fact, the service that I myself perform. This means that if I stayed in the transport terminology, or in the taxi service area or the various co-drivers, we could perhaps call the shared economy some forms of carpooling that are offered on the Internet, which means I'm going to Brno to visit Mr Blažek and take two or three passengers on the way, who will contribute to my gas. This can then be called some form of a shared economy. The fact that it has grown to dimensions that are unfortunately perceived today so that on the one hand we have a highly over-regulated service, and of course a regular taxi service, and on the other hand a service that uses some possibilities, I don't want to say that it doesn't respect, but it goes around a whole lot of things, maybe somewhere it moves on the edge, so I certainly wouldn't call this a shared economy. If we're going any way, there's two basic moments. The first moment is really to face the challenges that the shared economy brings, because we are dealing with here today, and I will say for nothing, unfortunately, we are dealing with this here with parliamentary proposals, because here the Ministry of Transport, as it is his custom, I will use the word to ignore and let the centre actually flow to the Chamber of Deputies. And the other thing is to look at how taxis are reregulated. And taxis really, there the regulation is perhaps one of the biggest in the business business that we have in the Czech Republic. The reasons are logical. The reasons, of course, are some negative experience that everyone has with taxis, so there's always a wave so that we have to tighten it all up, so we tighten it all up, we tighten the screws everywhere, we put nonsensical regulations on it, and then we find that on the other hand, there's just going to be a service that looks like there's no taxi service, and offers completely different services that are hiding under the name shared economy. This means less regulation on the one hand and, on the other hand, being able to stand up to this phenomenon, which is called a shared economy. Since this is far from just about cars, it has already been mentioned here that it is accommodation, that it can be a whole range of other activities. And if we can't clearly define when and what is a shared economy and give it some kind of framework, and I don't mean some strict and narrow rules, but some framework, and on the other hand, relatively draconian regulation, it won't work either in the field of taxi services or in the field of any other. My amendment, which I would like to present now, is also just a small possible improvement or a reduction in the draconian regulation that is in the field of taxi services, and concerns the right to withdraw the driver's license from the taxi service, which is currently being held by a member of the Police of the Czech Republic or an officer of the municipal police. Thus, the proposed wording of the law is too broad and could create room for bullying. In this amendment, I propose to give the possibility to withdraw the driver's licence only to the person responsible for carrying out the state's professional oversight. This will prevent potential damages disputes, where authorisation would be withdrawn, for example, by the Police of the Czech Republic and administrative proceedings led by the Transport Office and came to a different conclusion. This would lead to a dispute as to who caused the damage and to what extent, in the event of the unauthorised withdrawal of a taxi driver's licence until the end of the administrative procedure. The amendment was consulted by the City Council of Prague, which considers it sufficient, and according to my information, the Ministry of Transport has a favourable opinion on this. And, of course, we will not know until further discussion is held both in the committee and in the third reading here in the Chamber of Deputies. The amendment is inserted under number 6631 in the system, and I will also sign up for it in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u17	Thank you. At this point, I don't see... I see an application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I originally wanted to speak only in a detailed debate, but on the basis of the debate that has been held, I consider it appropriate that I speak on this, because I am giving the amendment precisely in relation to the so-called contractual transport. For the outsiders who have listened to the previous debate, it is probably hard to explain quickly what is going on there. More or less, the amendment concerns the regulation of taxi services and similar transports. Here, perhaps the biggest such dispute or such the biggest phenomenon of recent times is the contract transport, where the biggest representative of this is the so-called Uber company, and now it is precisely the dispute about how to do this so that we do not close our eyes to the fact that there is some technological progress, essentially the technology has overtaken legislation. [[15.10 hours]] Of course, the condition as it is at the moment is probably unacceptable. However, we cannot close our eyes before this, and we cannot, either by slamming a pen or by lifting a hand, clearly pull something in the bud. It is a fact that for example the Uber - I looked it up - has about 150,000 users only in Prague. So here we see that it's probably not quite simple, and, as I'm saying, the technological development is going some way further. There is a certain new segment, some need, and we should accept and respect this as legislation. Of course, when I give such a simple example today, we usually use all mobile phones and only exceptionally someone uses a landline. And that's just an example here, too, in the field of transport. Of course, the Uber is a relatively new phenomenon, and I understand that it is not entirely traditional in a number of procedures, and in some cases it is also on the edge of the law. But let's change that. I have tabled an amendment in this regard which addresses this issue to a certain extent. I will then join him in a detailed debate, and I think that we can debate this on the Economic Committee as well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u19	Thank you, too. Mr Pavel Blažek has a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u20	In response to the previous speaker, I would say that it was not here that technological progress was ahead of the law. Here, just certain forms of human activity, let's call it business or profitable activity, have gone ahead of legislation. Here's where I'd agree. But the problem is that - and there are two options. Those who want to do business like this should either settle the exact same license as our Czech citizens - because we both know, my colleague, through another fellow President, that they are foreign companies. And here it just happens that a foreign company doesn't have to meet what our state demands from our citizens. And that's just nonsense. Or let's cancel the regulation for those so-called taxi drivers so no one can have the regulation. But that's also wrong. There must be some regulation in my opinion. The question is measure. But for all the same conditions. I remember when there was an ANO movement running, so they were all over South Moravia with Mr. Stropnický - there were billboards: Equal conditions for everyone. And they just don't have them in this area. So I only want to talk about it - and the Minister, I think he can be talked about it - so that the conditions are equal to everyone. And they're not today. And when a new term comes up - it's always done. A new term will come up, it sounds nice - a shared economy. If there's a book in America, it'll translate. Nobody knows what it is, it's not defined, but we all think it's actually legal. We can't do this here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u21	Thank you. I have other factual points. First, Mr Michal Kučera, then the rapporteur and so on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u22	I must briefly respond to my previous speaker, Mr Blažek. I certainly don't think we should distinguish whether the company is foreign or Czech. This is definitely a criterion which I would not mention in any way in business, at least not in the form that Czech yes and foreign no. It surprises me that - maybe it was just some misunderstanding on my part, but in any case, the fact that it sounds from the right side surprised me a little bit. However, I would really warn you very much that we are here to downplay or downplay the term shared economy. It is just a nice lack of understanding of the importance of what a shared economy is and what a huge trend it is in the Czech Republic. We can really shut ourselves down here, as many suggest, barricade borders, not know what's going on in the world, and maybe after a while we'll be happy to have our Czech something here. However, a shared economy is a huge trend, and if we cannot stand up to it here too, that is, legislatively, and give it the right framework, that is, so that - and there of course I agree - that the shared economy as such respects the laws of the Czech Republic and that it is clearly defined when it is still a shared economy and what is no longer a shared economy. I said here in my previous speech that there is no discussion of a shared economy in a taxi service discussion. This is where the names of the companies fell - so neither of the companies says that it is a shared economy. It's just some press shortcut, and unfortunately, we're taking over.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u23	Thank you. Now, the rapporteur with a point of fact. Mr. Adamec will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u24	Thank you for the floor. I'll try to recall a few facts a little bit. Yesterday, the Transport Sub-Committee, which, under the authority of the Economic Committee, with whose resolution I introduced you to you as rapporteur, held one single item in the meeting, which dealt with the press of 998 and the questions of taxi services, where representatives of all platforms currently operating in the territory of Prague and the Czech Republic were involved. And the result was very simple. There was clear support for what the Minister did. This means setting up a working group with the participation of all these platforms and working under the patronage of the Deputy Engineer Němec to create a new form of the Public Transport and Public Transport Act individual regarding precisely modern technologies. It is not easy to implement this in the current amendment of the law and it is not possible to cover the whole scope of the problem with parliamentary proposals. Therefore, this option is correct in my opinion. And I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is an intensive job, so it will actually happen soon that new platforms and new technologies will also apply. And one more thing. You know, I am terribly sorry, and not only as a rapporteur, but also as a Member of the Parliament of the Czech Republic and a citizen, that there is currently such a trend in the Czech Republic that when something new comes, it is not in the law and it is already being applied. This means that I would insist that the legislation will first know the new parameter and will know how to name and set the rules, and then it can apply in practice in the market for those services. So today we can split taxis into legal law-abiding and illegal non-compliance laws that are currently in force. And as legislators, we should respect that we cannot respect the demands of illegal taxi service providers and regulate the law according to their requirements. [[Time warning]] We should objectively regulate the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u25	Thank you, too. Now, Mr Adamec, Mr Blažek will be ready. All factual points. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I was provoked to react by Mr. Zemek. Well, yes, of course, technology is evolving, but on the other hand, I don't know if you've driven a Uber car like this. Well, I did, several times and more or less just because I couldn't get a normal taxi service, she didn't. And my daughter is better at ordering this with her boyfriend. So you need to ask yourself, why are we using this service? Well, because we need to get home from somewhere. And it's the same as a taxi. And I wouldn't mind a normal licensed taxi service using this digital ordering model like this company does. I don't see anything wrong with that. But unfortunately, the bad thing is, the company just doesn't have a taxi license. I see that as bad. And certainly whether the company is foreign or local, or whether it's some kind of Czech branch, I don't really care. It's supposed to be the same for everyone. But what does this Uber show us? That de facto the taxi service can be done without excessive regulation or regulation altogether. On the other hand, we all know that when there were no regulated taxis in Prague, for example, what it brought, what chaos it was. So I guess you have to choose some kind of peace, I'd say middle ground, not to regulate the taxi service in general, and just say that Uber-type companies, just the service, are taxi services. I think this needs to be caught legislatively, and we're done arguing whether it's legal or illegal. Because I really don't know what the difference is on the way home if I order an Uber or a cab. It may be a difference in the quality of the service, in price, but otherwise the purpose is exactly the same.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u27	Thank you. Now, Mr Blažek. Mr. Mr. Čihák will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u28	I'm just following up on my colleague Kučera so I don't look like some kind of cartoonist. Well, of course I didn't mean it. I hope I made it very clear that the practice today is that those Czech taxi drivers who are used to handling permits under the applicable law, or concession, are now looking at the fact that some foreign companies are simply not doing so. That's what I meant. And basically, when I listen to it, I think we all want one thing. In order for those who want to operate the transport services of persons for remuneration to meet all the same conditions. And the practice today is that it's not. So I think we're in agreement. And now it's just a question of how to do it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u29	Thank you. Mr Čihák now, Mr Laudát will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u30	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I have just heard a few contributions where I have learned that a working group will be formed, which is a positive issue. Or it's already been created. The Uber company has fallen. I can add that Liftago, a Czech company, has adapted to the conditions we require, i.e. my concession, driver has permission to run a taxi service, he has exams from the site, which can be replaced by modern technology nowadays, but I think it is also important, and the basic requirement is that the driver can speak Czech. Because you get to the Uber company and the driver who doesn't understand, and it's a big problem. That means those conditions have to be set for everyone exactly the same way. And I think we understand that right now we're only talking about the only company that has earned that place on the market so that it's the cheapest - my daughter also drives Uber because it suits her -- the fastest, etc., but the conditions that the city of Prague has to meet. And without that, we're not really gonna find the right way. I have also prepared amendments on this subject, which I have made through the Committee on Economics, and I think they are dealing with this issue, and I would like you to support them afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u31	Thank you, too. Now, Mr Laudát, Mr Zemek will be ready. De facto remarks again. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u32	Thank you. I'm just talking about what's going on here. I don't think, unfortunately, I'm sure just one department working group is the right solution. You've probably heard, certainly, if you're dealing with a modern economy, peer-to-peer lending, which is a lot widespread in the United States, lending money to a person. We're toiling and weeping here, in socially excluded localities we regulate consumer credit so much that I think it's over-regulated, we drive them into the black zone. And there are these analyses - and in that traffic it's the same thing in pale blue - so they can lead to the fact that - or those analyses are very unpleasant - that they end up in some state or province or local political community, that they have to deal with some social problems. Those who look closely at what they do with longtime residents, the communities in the centers of attractive tourist cities, the renting of lodgings, again: People are leaving it, starting to do business with it, and in the finals the social business aspects in the long term will probably be no glory. I'm not talking about morality. In the United States recently, I feel that a raid has been made on the very people who are doing the service that is referred to here as Uber, and there are serious conflicts regarding sexual offences, etc. So there is a great need, and I think that the government should set up an inter-ministerial committee that would just focus on the issue of a shared service economy in the long term, and that there is a chance that we should set some modern, effective rules in all of these fields in some way together. What he said here, for example. A colleague of Blažek. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Yes. It is simply essential that everyone with regard to regulation should meet at one level. That's all it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u33	Thank you. Now, Mr Václav Zemek, Mr Michal Kučera will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u34	Thank you for the floor. By the time she got my turn, there was a lot of water running out, I hardly know what I wanted to react to. However, there have been several such things that are not entirely true, or there are such different rumors that Uber is breaking all the rules, or these companies are breaking all the rules. Maybe I wasn't talking about it being a shared economy. I told you, it's just some kind of contract traffic, transportation. We just have some new service here that we can't recapitulate, and we just want to get rid of it right away in the bud. I think it's more of a way to make the rules work in some way to keep these companies in line, but we have to expand the boundaries a little bit. Of course, regarding the demands, as Mr Blažek said, it is certainly not possible for anyone to do illegal business here or in any way to benefit greatly against others. I totally agree with that. However, it's a certain new platform that just works here, we can't ignore it. I think maybe... There was something about the non-regulation, or that it wasn't regulated. She's running a self-regulation. It's all through an Internet app, a mobile app where you know who you're going with, he knows who he's going with, the carrier. There's a dispute about whether we can use electronic receipts. I guess that's the big deal about this. Of course, there's a dispute over the licenses. And you need to ask yourself if the taxi service isn't unnecessarily regulated, if for example. nowadays, it is imperative to ask taxi drivers for a place and knowledge when everyone in your car has GPS. So this is also for debate. I am not defending myself, and that is why I have also tabled the amendment. So we're going to see where this is going in the debate. However, my opinion is that we can't ignore what's here. [[Time warning]] One last time. [[additional warnings]] For example, when Baťa was building a sidewalk, he first let people walk the road, and then built the sidewalk there. So let's do a little by reason. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u35	Dear Members, I ask you to respect the two minutes defined for factual remarks. Now, Mr Kučera, with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u36	Well, I've only been here a very short time, because this is where my colleague Laudát got off and more or less named it. I mean, we're dealing with the area of transport here today, but of course the same aspects have a number of other activities, whether it's the said accommodation or not. The hostel itself, of course it's lending money, it's a whole series of others. And why is that? One thing, of course, is that it's kind of a step in the system, but most importantly, it's a reaction to too much regulation in the sector. And this is simply the responsibility of this government and this House. When you project back these four years, what a measure of regulation you are - and I deliberately say you are, because I did not participate - have been introduced. You've tightened the rules in every field. You've tightened control in every field. You've narrowed your boundaries in every field. And the reaction? The reaction is that there is another form of taxi service, another form of accommodation, or money is borrowed outside the banking sector. This is the result of too much regulation. So if we're going to go some way, and I'm calling for that, it's a way of liberalizing the market and releasing those conditions so that we can set the minimum appropriate limit for both consumers and providers of that service.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u37	Thank you. I'm registering two more factual points. First Mrs Pekarová, then Mr Milan Urban. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u38	Thank you for the floor. As I listen to the debate here, we actually agree nicely across the political spectrum, and I therefore want to remind you of what I said here that one of those steps to deregulate the market was to remove some pointless demands that we need to start with the spelling, which is the amendment I am proposing. And then, of course, the debate must go on, which will certainly not end with this law and will not end with this election period. So then let's focus on this also in the next term and gradually reach some ideal model, which will actually be most advantageous especially for the customer, because that is probably what we all want in the first place, so that the rules are the same for everyone, equal, not unnecessarily tightened somewhere and elsewhere so easily broken. That is, as I see it, the objective of all of us, and I think that we could agree nicely on some amendments in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u39	Thank you. Mr Milan Urban now. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u40	Thank you. I just have something to say when I heard my colleagues here. Well, I'm sure we can agree that some regulations in the Czech Republic need to be removed and their hands loosened so that they can develop. However, I think that using a situation to express some party attitudes here, as my colleague Kučera has done, is not entirely adequate, in my view. Because then regulation would have to, reregulation would exist everywhere. Because of the companies you talked about, we know that they are transnational and do not only conduct these activities in the Czech Republic but also in other, much more advanced countries than the Czech Republic. So, in principle, I agree that all obstacles that are unnecessary and unnecessarily regulate the business environment need to be removed. On the other hand, I don't think it's necessary to use it for any political points. You've had enough, the six and a half.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u41	Thank you. Mr Kučera, with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u42	I would only like to ask how many Mr Urban's party has, but I will not fuck alive. However, the fact that these companies are multinational has already been said here once. This isn't some kind of disqualification. On the contrary, there are a number of countries that have been very supportive of these activities. Of course, I do not want to name countries that are overseas, but they are also countries in the European Union. And here I would really mention that Estonia, which is a country from the former Soviet bloc, virtually. Former Soviet country. This means that it had similar, if not worse starting conditions for legislation and for giving a chance to a liberal economy than the Czech Republic has. We as the Czech Republic have had an excellent start and now we are actually treading water in this direction for the last few years. And if it seems to Mr Urban that someone here is taking political points, they are not political points. This is the result of the work of the Government of the ČSSD, YES and KDU-ČSL, Mr Urban through the President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u43	Thank you. Mr Jan Skopeček, duly applied for. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u44	Thank you very much. So much has been said to me to repeat myself. I'll really be short. I'm surprised, virtually. I'm delighted that we agree across the political spectrum. I really think that the way to reconcile the lives of companies operating within the shared economy and those standard ones, especially today it concerns taxi services or transport services, so it is a way not to increase regulation in that segment of the shared economy, but to look at those over-regulated standard sectors. When you look, the sector of the shared economy is really growing, and even though it would win here, as usual, some effort for greater regulation, that life will find its way, and it will always be a few steps behind those who implement these technologies. So I'm very concerned about this and I'm going to support any amendment, no matter what party it is, which will lead to us deregulating the standard sectors and creating comparable conditions for companies operating in the so-called. Shared economy, so the companies standard. I understand today's sigh or criticism from standard taxi services that it is difficult for them to compete with Uber and similar applications or similar companies. I understand, however, the path is not to regulate Uber on the same condition as standard taxi services today, but to think about whether in this century taxi drivers must use GPS or taxi meter. I think the technology went so far ahead, that hold for example. It's really from the last century on the meter today, and it's a long time ago. So let's think about how to simplify and make life easier for standard taxi operators, and let's not try to complicate the lives of businessmen and businesses that do business within a shared economy. The development won't stop anyway, and even if there's an attempt by regulation to stop him, he'll find a way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u45	Thank you, too. I wonder if anyone else is joining the general debate. I do not see any application, in which case I conclude the general debate and ask the applicant for the final word. This is the case, please, you have the final word before the full debate is opened. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u46	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I did not originally want to, but I would like to respond to some of the things that have fallen here. First of all, I would like to say that the motivation of the Ministry of Transport for the opening of the road law was not at all a taxi service. Our motivation was the change in European regulations and its transposition in this law. Taxi service just showed up because it's a theme, it's a problem. I, through Mr President, have to say that I completely disagree with what Mr Kučera said. First of all, we didn't ignore anything, so I'd be very much inclined. Secondly, neither the world nor Europe know much about the shared transport economies. One way, of course, is to liberalize everything completely. Then I'd like to know how we would get to a taxi in the 1990s in the Czech Republic. Or at least we'll follow some rules. I would just like to say that when Uber was down here, there is a Czech Liftago application that has the same characteristics, it just follows the law. And the problem I see with Uber at this point, and I have nothing against him, and I think it's a good service, so of course her problem is that even though it's been said that you see who's going to take you, and you can choose him, it's not entirely true. You don't know who's driving you, and you don't know the basic thing: If he's got his car insured. And now imagine that he's gonna crash with you somewhere, have no insurance car, be a private man who makes a shared economy, has no money, and you're gonna stay around the state with an injury or disability. And these things aren't solved at all. I think there are a lot of aspects, not to mention the aspect of how these services are taxed. So I think that's a big problem. I just want to say that the inter-departmental group is, it's not resortary, so the shared economy is being dealt with by the government inter-departmental group, and part of it is traffic, and the way it's going to be done. And just one note. Here it was said that Uber is a reaction, or even here the new taxis are a reaction to the fact that in the Czech Republic we are constantly regulating and regulating everything more. For my part, it's not true for us. But if that were true, it is the same in the United States, because Uber originated in the United States, and I don't know how much regulation they have there. Notabens in the United States don't know how I'm gonna take it, either, and it's basically out of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u47	Thank you, too. I ask the rapporteur's final words whether he wants to speak. It's not like that. I am opening a detailed debate in which I am registering several applications. First of all, Mr Václav Zemek in a detailed debate. Mrs Pekarová, Mr Šidlo, will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u48	Thank you. As I have already announced, I would like to sign up for my amendment, which you will find under number 6639 in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u49	Thank you. Now, Mrs Pekarová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u50	Thank you. I would also like to sign up for the amendment, which you will find under number 6634 in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u51	Thank you, too. Now, the rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u52	I am sorry, my amendment is not listed as a House document, which is why I would like to read it. Legitimately technical adjustment: First. In the first part of point 53, "§ 21' is replaced by "§ 21c'. Two. In Part 5 of Article VI, "day 1 July 2017' is replaced by "fifteen days after its publication'. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u53	Thank you, too. Two more applications - first Mr Laudát, followed by Mr Kučera in a detailed debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u54	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I humbly report that I am applying to the numbers of amendments under numbers 6423 and 6624.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u55	Thank you. Now, Mr Kučera. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u56	I would like to sign up for the amendment that I have put into the system under number 6631 and which I duly justified in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u57	I thank you and ask if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u58	Well, the debate is definitely interesting. I was impressed by the Minister's speech that we have an inter-ministerial government commission that deals with a shared economy. So I wonder what's underneath when the government commission deals with a shared economy. How long are they gonna deal with it, and until when are they gonna deal with it? The minister didn't like the verb Mr. Kučera used. I don't have a problem with that, we might as well have another verb. We know about this problem that it's complicated, legislatively complex, and it has to be said that it's nothing simple. We won't find foreign patterns that we could possibly implement. But the logical response was described by Mr Kopeček. [[♪ Right, right, right, right, right, right, ……]] And it doesn't matter that we don't know exactly what's going to happen today, how we're going to tax the shared economy. But this government is constantly introducing further regulations that actually create space for a shared economy. I do not like that view very much, because at other times, members of the ANO movement are modern and progressive. And it's modern and progressive. It's kind of all-hugging, and it's not exactly what you imagine under it. But instead of really deregulating here, the motivation of the Ministry of Transport for this amendment is what? Implementation of new regulations, or implementation of new regulations. Am I wrong, Minister? Is there deregulation? Are we implementing any deregulation? If so, I'll ask you to tell us what we're deregulating on the basis of the directive. And it's possible I missed it. Well, in that case, I'm really sorry. And the fact that the Department of Transport doesn't do anything about taxi service, I consider it a mistake. Nothing more, nothing less. I won't use strong words. The problem really exists. There are concerns on both sides, on the side of traditional taxi services, which are long-term policies, I would say, until criminalized flat-rate, instead of possibly saying "we have a lot of excellent taxi services here, but beware, here this particular person or this particular company is not serious" so there are chases for taxi drivers. It's very interesting in the media. Instead of simplifying the rules. I'll ask the Minister if he thinks he's okay and normal in 2017 to rehearse. I think each and every one of us, when he comes to Prague for the first time and has navigation, he'll be fine. So no attempt to ease the terms of the traditional taxi service. None. And when some politicians are doing something, they say they're going to control them, and they're going to make things right. On a flat-rate basis without saying how confident I am that most of them are decent. On the other hand, those who come up with a new innovative solution are also concerned. And here we hear they're out of law, illegal, but at the same time we hear P.R. - Attention, attention, we've got her here... I will not name any app, neither foreign nor Czech. And I don't think it's perfectly normal, Minister, for you to say, look out, there's an excellent Czech application! That sounds a little chatty to me. Maybe just one, and maybe there's three. I don't know, but if there's three of them, then we should mention all three of them. Alternatively, evaluate which is better, which is worse, who has better prices, who has better insurance. It doesn't seem normal to me. But the same goes for those who talk about the foreign app. I'd say that's just a symbol. That she's not the only one, that there's more. But by keeping quiet about the problem and not solving it, there's nothing we can do about it. We're going to go to the microphone here one by one, and we're going to say hmm wisely, the shared economy is here, we're not going to stop technological progress, but it's complicated. But I don't think that's enough from the government desks, Mr. Secretary. That's why you get the D.O.D.s, that's why you get the apparatus to solve the difficult problems. It's very complicated to deal with this with the amendments. I'm glad they're here, but this was supposed to be handled by the Ministry. However, the ambition of the Ministry - I think it is extremely low ambitious - was to implement the European directive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-015-024.u59	Thank you. I ask who else is reporting for a detailed debate. I don't see an application. In that case, I am ending the detailed debate. And I ask the appellant and rapporteur if you want to take the final floor at this stage. Mr. plaintiff, do you want the final word? Mr. Rapporteur? Not either. In that case, thank you and I finish second reading of this proposal. I'll read the apologies. For the reasons of work today, Mrs Martina Berdychová apologizes, from 14.30 to the end of the day the Minister Robert Pelikán apologizes for the reasons of work, and from 15 a.m. to the end of the day due to urgent work obligations within the Ministry of the Interior, Minister Milan chovanec apologizes. And I'm opening up another point in today's meeting, and that's it.
