ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-010-299.u1	299. Tax fraud by the Minister of Finance We will continue to discuss paragraph 299, in the general debate that has been interrupted. I am registering President Kalousek's priority right with a request for a speech in the debate. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-010-299.u2	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, good day. Please allow me to now justify why I have asked the House to include this point with a rather apt name: Tax fraud of the Minister of Finance. I don't know how many are really. Maybe only the Minister himself knows that. But from open sources, four are traceable. They concern two business operations, which are publicly known, and individual numbers are publicly known. And let me describe them in chronological order and, if possible, in a clear way. Before it's eight. 3. 2017 The Budget Committee dealt with the issue of the purchase of crown bonds by Andrej Babiš from his own company Agrofert, the Minister of Finance faced both public challenges and calls on the Prime Minister to clarify whether to purchase these bonds in the amount of 1.5 billion. He had enough resources. The Minister of Finance published his tax returns, which showed that if it were only for this taxed money, he did not have enough legal resources. The Minister of Finance responded to this objection by also having non-taxed income from the sale of shares which, after the end of the time test, are actually non-taxed income and promised to familiarize the public with this by an audit that he would enter with a renowned company. This document was published by the Minister of Finance 10. 3. 2017, he told him audit. After we all read that the auditors pointed out that it was not such an audit, the Minister of Finance also warned us yesterday that the audit was not actually an audit. But that is not so important, it is the public information it has provided, and the figures that it contains, I assume that they are true and that the Minister stands up for them. Those numbers are to a large extent alarming. It follows from these that the Minister of Finance received revenue from the sale of shares of non-taxed income of 748 million in 2010. CZK, and acquired them by selling shares of three companies, namely PROFROST and AHEED Czech Republic... [[Mr. Faltynek from the diaper suggests AFEED.]] AFEED, I am so sorry, thank you to the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Agrofert. [[Member of the Faltynek with a smile adds: Former.]] Ex-wife.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-010-299.u3	I will ask you, Members, not to shout at each other. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-010-299.u4	I really thank you for the repair, it concerns the companies AFEED and AFEED Czech Republic. Income from these shares is legally not taxed, provided that this is done in a standard manner. However, it is not surprising that all these shares were sold by the natural person Andrej Babiš to the legal person Agrofert, and s., under incredibly disadvantageous conditions for Agrofert, that means an incredibly high price. An example can be found on the largest profit, on the company PROFROST, whose shares the Minister of Finance sold for 527.5 million. Crowns. It is a company with a core capital of less than 2 million at the time. The CZK and its credit liabilities were essentially identical to their assets. Totally indebted, I'd say up to an overdebted company with a share capital of 1.8 million. Crowns. However, what is charming is that, at the date of the purchase contract, when the Minister of Finance sold this company to Agroferta, only 20 percent of these shares were sold, since 80 percent of the shares were already held by Agrofert, a.s. [[14.10 hours]] From the method of increasing assets before this purchase contract took place, we can easily get the result that the 80 per cent was purchased by the super-majority shareholder Agrofert, a.s. for CZK 80 million. He bought the remaining 20 percent from the minority shareholder Andrej Babiš for CZK 527 million. Totally pointless business. There is no super major shareholder who would buy 20 percent of a company with such basic assets and with such liabilities at such a staggering pointless price. That only makes sense in one single case where the company buys it from its owner and runs out during this operation... [[A glass of water was brought to the speaker.]] Thank you. And during this operation between the natural person Andrej Babiš and Agrofert, a legal person, two nice tax evasions. The first tax evasion is the fact that the income of 527 million is actually tax-free, because shares after a time test are sold with tax-free income. However, provided that the income corresponds to the market price, because it is a tax evasion and the natural person thereby increases his non-tax income unlawfully, it is to be subsequently taxed and handed over to the law enforcement authorities. The second tax fraud in this operation is committed by Agrofert as a legal entity because it pays its owner a senselessly high amount. For 20 percent, i.e. essentially for worthless property, he pays half a billion crowns and applies this half a billion crowns to the tax base and cheats the state budget. So there will be an operation where a natural person, a stock seller, the owner of the company, loses his company and, in particular, loses his state budget because the state budget at that moment is cheating both the natural person and the legal person. So this is the two tax frauds in the first operation. Sale of worthless property to the company for 748 million crowns. I said worthless, I should correct myself, I should say almost worthless, because for AFEED and AFEED CZ it was some value, but the purchase price, once again it is verifiable from open sources, was several times overpriced and increased. At this point, of course, the natural person Andrej Babiš already has enough funds to buy koruna bonds. And what does he do with them? What's he doing with the funds? Well, he lends it to his company. She, logically, has a problem with cash, because before that she had to make senselessly high expenses for buying almost worthless property. This means he borrows one and a half billion crowns from his owner and issues him koruna bonds with interest of 6%, and again with senselessly high interest at a time when interest rates are around 2%. For your information, Agrofert is borrowing money at that time at average interest somewhere between 1.8 and 1.9 percent, except that her own boss is lending it at 6 percent. It is not without interest that even a much smaller stork nest, at that time owned by descendants of Andrej Babiš, could borrow significantly cheaper, at about 4 percent, than Agrofert borrowed from his owner. This operation has already been dealt with by the Committee on Budgets and expressed great suspicion that the operation itself is not a purchase of koruna bonds, but is a hidden payment of the dividend because it took place at the end of 2012, when really koruna bonds were not taxed. However, any operation according to the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Justice must be assessed on its own merits, and if it is the sole reason for non-payment of taxes, it is illegal, even if it is formally done in accordance with the paragraphs. Almost all of us were convinced on the budget committee, and I think that anyone who looks at the operation with cold eyes is convinced that the real essence of this operation is not the purchase of koruna bonds, but the hidden dividend payment, so that the dividend is not taxed, because it is normally taxed. A simple question is sufficient: Why did Agrofert issue bonds at the nominal value of one crown? There's no other answer than that their buyer didn't want to pay the tax. How come he's the only one who bought them? Agrofert, of course, made sure that this incredibly high and non-market interest, which brings the buyer an unprecedented advantage, had only its owner and no one else. Again, two tax evasions occur during a single operation made by the natural person Andrej Babiš with the legal person Agrofert. The natural person Andrej Babiš receives an incredibly high advantage for non-market interest of 6 percent and does not have to tax it, the legal person pays 6% interest on bonds to its owner and applies this interest to the tax base and cheats the state budget. Both a natural person who did not want to pay a 15% dividend tax and a legal person who misplaces a nonsensically high 6% interest on a tax base cheats the state budget. In particular, the first case, the sale of almost worthless property to your own company, is a nicely one of the oldest and textbook examples of tax fraud. This is what tax controllers learn for the first week of the tax exchange rate in Smilovice. And they're always stressed: Every time you run into something like this, count on one, maybe even two testimonials with round stamps, that the price corresponds, so don't put anything on it. Those expert reviews mean nothing. You are obliged to examine the actual market price of the assets that have been sold and, if this does not correspond, if almost worthless assets have been sold at a high price, you are obliged to tax and report to law enforcement authorities. As far as the hidden dividend payment in the koruna bond case is concerned, this is indeed only a hit case in 2012, which was at 1 1. 2013 was struck by a timely legislative proposal. And none of us doubted in 2012 and no one in the tax administration at the time doubted that in 2014, which would be the first decisive year, because at that time the theoretical tax liability for bonds issued in 2012 was first established, that in 2014, all these operations would be audited and where, by its nature, it would not be the purchase of bonds, but by its essence, the purchase of dividends would be measured and, where appropriate, the relevant notification would be made. [[14.20 hours]] Of course, none of us could have known that in 2014, the tax administration would not really go into this, because one of those who made this optimization is the current finance minister and their boss. And we saw on the budget committee the dance that Mr. CEO Janeček and Deputy Minister Ing performed. Schillerová, when they kept explaining to us that they don't really know what kind of legal instruments they should be saving something like that. And the legal instruments exist. First of all, it's a tax code that requires us to examine the true nature of the operation, not the formalized one. And it's the Supreme Administrative Court's case-law, and it's the Constitutional Court's case-law, which repeats that if the sole purpose of the operation was to cut taxes, then the operation is illegal, even if it was formally purely legal. Why the tax Cobra in this case has become a tax blind man, it's probably not hard to guess. The fact is that we have seen on the air how Janeček's CEO and Deputy Minister Schillerová did not really curl like blind people and cobras. The problem is, of course, the offense, because the bonds are ten years old, so the offense will be repeated every year. From 2014 until 2023. And that is, I am deeply convinced, the real reason for Mr Babiš's proposal, which he tried to implement in the proposal concerning blood donors, to end it by law. Because when it ends with the law, it'll be the last time in 2018. Then it won't show up in Agrofert's balance sheet or his own tax return, and no one will ask. Until then, perhaps he will keep his Janečka in office. But it's hard to hold them until 2023. And I believe, but this is my speculation, and you don't have to agree with me, I believe that this proposal is nothing more than an attempt to take responsibility, probably criminal liability, to commit this act and end it with a legislative proposal. Because the legislation is completely useless. In fact, professional executive performance is sufficient to measure where tax is needed. There is no need to approve any legislative change for this. In summary, underlined. Honest businessman, if he wants to get money from his firm, either he pays the manager's fee and the tax, or he gets the dividend and the tax. A cheater sells his company almost worthless overvalued assets in shares after a time test and does not have to tax that income. And, of course, the company makes money on it in its own way, or it doesn't make any money, but the other tax evasion is committed by the company because it applies the overvalued property to the tax base. If so, the cheater does not pay his dividend, but he pretends that the purchase of koruna bonds is really the purchase of koruna bonds and not the hidden payment of the dividend. I admit there will be more of these guys in the business world in the Czech Republic. In particular, the first case, the sale of worthless assets at a pointless high price, has actually been repeated several times, the Financial Administration has revealed and punished. And there are certainly many undiscovered and unpunished cases. That's likely to be the case. But none of these people became the finance minister who intruded on the shield to fight tax evasion. None of these people are saying that they're stealing everything, and they don't want to squeeze the businessman into the last crown, while laughing in their eyes and saying, "You're all stealing, I'm the only one legally optimizing and pumping." I think it is not possible that this suspicion cannot be met by a credible government of the Czech Republic to fight tax evasion. That is why I dare to make a resolution on this point. It's three-point, it's relatively short. Chamber of Deputies 1. 574 of 8. 3. The Commission shall be assisted by a committee within the meaning of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial 2. Notes that the Minister of Finance has not demonstrated crediblely either his personal legal income for the purchase of Agrofert bonds or serious suspicions of tax evasion resulting from mutual trade between Agrofert, a.s. and Andrej Babiš as a natural person; 3. Asks the Finance Minister to provide credible explanations by 30 at the latest. 4. 2017 or to draw personal political responsibility on that date. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-010-299.u5	Thank you, too. For the sake of order only - it is important that the motion for a resolution also be heard in the debate in detail, which I will open after the general debate. Mr Faltýnek is a member of the Parliament with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-010-299.u6	Good afternoon, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I'm glad we're finally dealing with a point called the Treasury Secretary's Cheats. It's a point we've all been waiting for for the last 25 years. I have here with me, not the file, the book... [[Laughter, entertainment in the hall.]] Here's this blue book that's been published by the Anti-Corruption Fund...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-010-299.u7	Once again, I will ask you, Members, not to shout and respect each other's rules of procedure, although I understand that this raises a smile on your faces.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-010-299.u8	And this book - thank you, Mr President. And this book describes how to put it politely, the various actions of one of the worst ministers of the Czech Republic, Mr Kalousek. I recommend reading this book carefully, my friends, because Mr Kalousek and his functioning in the state administration are an example of non-transparency, disadvantageous sales, and I have to say it, just corruption. Here you can see, in this book, quite in detail his activities in politics in 25 years. [[He's showing the book.]] You can read how he was selling Migy-29, selling hundreds of T-72 tanks to Algeria, Gripens, gambling, eco-super-orders, barracks on the Republic Square, buying Casa planes, buying parachutes on which no one has ever died, and accessing Kalousek's gambling. But he's always the same, which is good, and some people appreciate him for that. You'll just find everything here. So if there's anything to be done and investigated here, it's one of the worst finance ministers in the Czech Republic. [[14.30 hours]] Unfortunately, what the opposition is doing here, with our coalition partners, social democracy and KDU, I consider it to be a kind of hypocrisy, and it is another fictional pseudo-case which, of course, is intended to discourage and remove Mr Babiš from Czech politics as far as possible. Maybe it would be nice if we all showed our tax returns for the last 20 years, like Mr. Babiš did. [[Notes from the benches.]] Allow me to use a few quotations from this book, as my colleague Kalousek imagines democracy. [[The MP still holds a blue book in his hand.]] It is a quote that will amuse us all: It is the summer of 2011. According to the Supreme Audit Office's findings, the Ministry of Finance forgave CZK 31 out of CZK 34 billion from 2006 to 2009. Journalists know specific cases where Kalouskův ministry forgave sanctions, even though the subsidies were subject to final penalties for credit fraud and bribery. Miroslav Kalousek responds with these words - colon: One little monster named Kala - colleagues from social democracy, I am talking about your former member. So once again, my colleague Kalousek quotes: A little monster named Kala decided to make it a media case about 14 days ago, as the criminal Kalousek forgave 31 billion. I consider what is doing extremely Bolshevik exmissary of ČSSD Kala to be an outrage. Probably his colleagues from the ČSSD advised him to bring it to the media and make it impossible for the government. So in this context, I'm quite surprised by the rare connection at the House meeting to enforce this point. However, there are two other things that have also been said here in our political ether to the address of President Lessy of the Police, that he should tread the sidewalk to Ostrava. And this, of course, had to do with the phone calls made by our precious colleague Kalousek to the investigating police officer and the police president, and those of you sitting here in July that night in 2012, I'm sure you remember the debate on this subject and the rare quote. I would revive the memory of some colleagues sitting here: it is unprecedented manipulation of criminal proceedings. As a Christian, I can't recommend to an investigator or a warden to shoot themselves, but frankly, if he doesn't shoot himself, resignation is the only possible option. But the book is long, and I don't want to delay. I have one last thing here, and it relates to the commentary by the editor of Respekt Jan Macháček from 2011, when he says among other things: And finally, let's take the recent case where the Finance Minister called the Financial Office Prague 9, to send control to Sazka, and the officials ran there in ten minutes. Do we even realize that this effective privatisation of power, when the Minister directs the tax office, can at any time turn against any of us? So much for a very brief point of tax fraud by the Minister of Finance Kalousek. Unfortunately, as I asked the Chamber of Deputies, I would not have been able to move that point to the 17th hour, so I would have read the written opinion on the specific things that were said here by my colleague Kalousek when he proposed this point on the agenda yesterday. So it's the opinion of Minister Babiš that I would read with permission when he can't be here at this moment. One. The former multi-year finance minister said yesterday that I sold my companies to my own company and - I quote - thanks to this, the company could reduce the tax base in depreciation by 748 million and give less to the state budget. That's the quote from last night's show. Well, it's a total nonsense that a company could reduce its tax base by the value of a purchased company. I don't know what's worse - first of all, that the former multi-year finance minister doesn't know or that he's deliberately lying. If you were wondering why it is not possible to lower the tax base on the price of purchased shares, just look into the Income Tax Act until § 25. Two. I didn't make companies out of unknown means. As the only politician in the Czech Republic, I have published tax returns in the last 20 years. I really have nothing to hide. I am still waiting for one of my fellow parliamentary party chairmen to join me. Three. I sold the companies at a price determined by a court-appointed expert. Four. Sales of companies between 2009 and 2011 could not have had anything to do with the bonds. It's another lie. Five. The bonds were issued in 2012 after the successful promotion of the Ministry of Finance under the direction of the many-year Minister of Finance. This year hundreds of emissions were issued in the total value of hundreds of billions of crowns. Everyone can look into the register of these bonds, where interest rates were 18 percent. Six. Perhaps the many-year finance minister could explain why if I hold a hundred bonds in the nomination one crown and one bond in the nomination one hundred crowns, I pay another tax. This pointless rule and its author should finally be dealt with. If the law contains such a rule, bond issuers will, of course, use it. After all, they were publicly advised by the then Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Minčič. Seven. In 2012, for ten-year corporate bonds, interest was not 6 percent incredibly high and non-market. Everyone will understand - well, not everyone, but the one who knows something about finance. The former Minister of Finance should understand that. Eight o'clock. Moreover, the market interest rate was verified by an expert. Nine. For years I owned Agrofert transparently as a natural person. No Cyprus, Holland, different islands as friends of the many-year finance minister. He now owns Agrofert Czech Trust Fund. I've never been hiding behind inconspicuous foreign structures. I have no reason to. Tenth and final. Anyone can look up transactions between me and Agrofert in an annual report on the Internet. Everything is public and transparent. However, the unpublished sales of exempt shares were used in the past for dubious transactions. The first thing I put in place as Minister of Finance was precisely reporting tax exempt income to tax authorities if they exceed CZK 5 million. Maybe that's why some of the hits are coming out today. I just wanted to make one final point at the end. It's already fallen from the Minister of Finance's mouth. He, as a natural person for the years 1996 to 2015, paid about CZK 350 million in income tax and levies, Agrofert in the last ten years around 23 billion in taxes and contributions to the state budget. I would ask, through Mr President, how much our dear colleague Kalousek has paid for this period. So much for the Minister of Finance's statement that I have made here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-010-299.u9	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, members of the government. We will continue the open debate. Mr Leoš Heger and Vice-President Jan Bartošek report with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-010-299.u10	Good afternoon. I would like to make a brief comment on the report made here by the President of the ANO Faltýnek parliamentary club. I will not evaluate the second, smaller half of his speech, there is certainly a number of financial experts, I will leave it to them, but I would just like to say that, according to the Rules of Procedure, the debate is to be considered, and in that first half, the debate was essentially the sum of the insults quoted here by President Faltýnek. He quoted them from a book under the impression that what's in the paper or what's in the book is right and must be true. We have seen the book here many times in the hands of colleagues ANO, we have not seen a similar book that is written about President Babiš, but I will not decline to quote from it here. I just wanted to remind you that the blue publication was created by an organization that was sponsored from Agrofert's money, as it is generally known, so it's at least very tricky to hang around here with it. Finally, I would say that there is a classical legal saying that where there are no arguments to the point, there are arguments to the person. This is an old-famous rhetorical trick, and I think a little Mr. Faltýnek insults this auditorium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-010-299.u11	I thank Mr Leoš Hegr for his time on the point of fact and we will continue with the priority speech of Vice-President Jan Bartošek. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-010-299.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'd almost like to say with the classics, let the pussy talk, gentlemen - if the situation wasn't so serious. It's very complicated, and now let me look away from party jurisdiction. I have been hearing repeatedly for 3.5 years from the representatives of the ANO movement who have been stealing or stealing, whether they are attacks on Members of Kalousek, whether they are attacks on Members of Urban or on anyone else. If such fundamental accusations are made here, let them be accompanied by criminal charges and the punishment of the guilty, and then it will be an expression of strength, argument and determination, and if we only hear it for three years, it is only a rhetorical exercise and it is more a sign of weakness than determination. If you had the arguments, I assume you'd file a criminal complaint. And it would be right! If anyone has broken the law, do so. Really do it. The Chamber of Deputies is always and will always be a sovereign. And whoever sits in this government will always answer to the Chamber of Deputies. I assumed that a colleague of Faltýnek would perform, through you, and - [[Mr. Faltynek screams out of place: and he apologizes.]] No, he'll apologize for making any relevant argument. It's just a matter of learning what happened to the vice prime minister's income. That's all it is. It's not philosophy, it's not some reasoning, it's just numbers. And if there is evidence of the controversy, let us go on. On the other hand, Mr President, do not shout at me, you know that I always urge discipline and respect for the Rules of Procedure. [[Watermelon]] I'm sure you'll be able to respond to me. This is not an ideological debate from my point of view; this is a factual debate. That's what I'm calling for. This is what I think will return to some extent the credibility of this Chamber of Deputies that we will be able to have fun at the level of real facts. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-010-299.u13	Thank you to Vice-President Jan Bartošek. Now another factual point, Mr Bronislav Schwarz. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-010-299.u14	Hello, Mr President, colleagues, I am very pleased that Vice-President of the House has spoken, but one thing I would ask him is because I did not want to shout at him. So now that he spoke to Mr Kalousek, as I understand it, he explained to him that if he suspected that Mr Babiš had done something, why he didn't file a criminal report, that's one thing, if he didn't know. Then I would ask Mr Bartošek why he approved the agenda of the meeting when he advises here that when I know about the crime, that I should go to the police, and not to be an investigating judge here. That's all I want to ask.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-010-299.u15	Thank you. Now, Mr Nekl with a point of fact. My colleague Fiedler is still duly logged in. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-010-299.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'd like to respond to Mr. Faltýnek. Mr Faltýnek, please, you are calling here, and Mr Babiš is still calling for everyone, not just the presidents of the club and party, but all politicians, to submit tax returns. My tax returns have been deposited with the Financial Administration in Přerov since 1992, I've never had a problem, they're always well checked. And I think whoever's clean doesn't have to present anything here, because Minister Babiš can check it through his financial authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-010-299.u17	Thank you for keeping time. Now a factual comment by my colleague Jan Bartošek. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-010-299.u18	I will respond to Mr Schwarz shortly through you. I assume you listened to me carefully. I'm sure you didn't hear from my mouth that I'd say your chairman was stealing. I didn't say it. I didn't. All I've said is to make the relevant arguments. That's my statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-010-299.u19	Thank you. Mr Karel Fiedler is now duly registered. Oh, factually speaking, Mr. Chairman, or with priority? Well, with priority rights. My colleague Fiedler... You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-010-299.u20	I'm sorry about my colleague Fiedler, but it's a shame we don't listen to each other. In the first part I spoke about the tax fraud of the Minister of Finance Kalousek and in the second part I explained, respectively. He read Mr Babiš's opinion on the specific questions that were raised here when the point was submitted. And as for what Vice-President Bartošek calls for Mr Babiš to prove his income, I suppose he had his income assessed, I would not call it an audit, but an assessment of his income by two audit firms that said it was okay. So what more does he want to prove his income? And what my colleague said here No, of course it's nonsense to call on the Minister of Finance, anybody, to check the tax returns of politicians through the Financial Administration. You can't possibly be serious, colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-010-299.u21	Thank you. Now, Mrs Pekarová's point of fact. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-010-299.u22	Thank you for the floor. Mr President Faltýnek, through Mr President, I understand that you are nervous. You yourself were the chairman of Agrofert's board, so, of course, you are, or a member in that situation, I'm sorry, but of course that doesn't relieve you of responsibility at all. Anyway, let's really get to the point here. I understand that if you have to represent an absent minister who literally didn't come to this meeting today, because... I don't think we're gonna be communicating like that. [[Mr Faltynek shouts]] You have the opportunity to respond in a standard manner according to the Rules of Procedure, so please follow this. So, of course, he knew that the point would be included, and instead he lectures at some private university in České Budějovice today, holding his campaign, he is not here where he should be, because the House meeting, of course, is one of the basic duties for ministers. So please, let's stick to the subject. And the subject is the tax fraud of the Treasury Secretary today. So once again, in this case, let us not be so cowardly in this case, do not be so cowardly, through the President, and stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-010-299.u23	Thank you, Mrs Pekarová, for keeping time on the point of fact. And I have two further factual points - Mr Martin Komárek first and then Mr Schwarz. [[There's a noise level rising in the hall.]] So now, Mr Martin Komárek. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-010-299.u24	I've only had a short time. It's kind of funny that we think that in this room - I mean, I don't think so, but colleagues on the right think that there's an election campaign in this room. I can't, folks. You're gonna have to work it off anyway.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-010-299.u25	I thank Mr Komárek for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Bronislav Schwarz is now also making a point of fact. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-010-299.u26	Mr Vice-President, colleagues, I don't want to campaign anymore. I would just like to remind my colleague of the facts, through you. For how old you are, my colleague, maybe you can remember and perceive a little bit more. This is where the proposal clearly came in. This House... Wait for Babiš. Let's approve of the interruption until his arrival. He was willing to come here. I know it myself. He wanted to come here. You, too, weren't interested in hearing it so he could say what Mr. Faltýnek read here. He would have told you here. You didn't want it. So please don't tell me he's not here with the pussy and he's somewhere else. I was there. He'd come here. So please don't do this. You didn't approve. So you weren't interested in hearing him talk here. Well, that's how it's done. Why would he come here when the House isn't curious about him? Please, that's what happened.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-010-299.u27	Let's keep going. With priority right now, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, as chairman of the MP's club and after Karel Fiedler, I still have Mr Václav Votava's application. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-010-299.u28	I'll link the de facto to the reaction to my previous speakers then the performance. I would probably have to be a member of the ANO MEP's club to be grateful that the Minister is willing to come to the Chamber of Deputies. [[emphatically:]] He's an MP too, not just a minister. And maybe when he suggests that he wants to reduce the number of Members to 100 or 101, you could also suggest that Parliament sits when Andrej Babiš has time and taste and is willing to come. [[Great applause for all Members except the ANO movement.]] But that's not why I applied. I want to talk about two things, and that is the position of the Financial Administration and then the general problem of koruna bonds. I interviewed the Prime Minister here at the last meeting, and I drew attention to the liquidation fines that The Financial Administration grants small and small businessmen for mere administrative misconduct or delay in sending confirmation that what the Financial Administration has already received, that it is paying. I mean, these taxpayers didn't owe a single crown to the state. I remember those fuzzy sentences of the Minister of Finance, his team, the head of the Financial Administration, when he says, "Don't worry, businessmen, in the first months it'll be more like methodical help, we won't be dealing with draconian punishments and fines." That was true, but only until the end of last year. So entrepreneurs who didn't owe anything only within five days didn't send a confirmation that once what they sent to the state, that it was valid, after nine or ten months, they were fined, for example, CZK 30,000. I told you last time. Compare: Five days has a businessman and the small ones have, for example, external accountants and the like, and the Financial Administration will award CZK 30,000 in ten months. The fact that I was right indicated that last week was the press conference of the Minister of Finance, his deputy and chief of the Financial Administration, where I quote the words of the Minister of Finance, not opposition policy: Financial administration behaves inhumane and has lost sound common sense, and therefore we have modified the methodology and now entrepreneurs have the opportunity to ask for forgiveness again and two such administrative errors for 2016 and one for 2017 will be forgiven. That's the right move, I mean. But it's kind of an old cliché, it's the pyromaniac who sets the fire, so as a hero as a member of the fire department, he comes to put the fire out, and he says it's good, you see how I put it out. But I just want to document the Financial Administration's position here. I remember the first performance of the new Chief of Financial Administration in the Budget Committee, and my colleagues will confirm it to me, it was clear to me why he was chosen. 'Cause he actually told all the robbers. When we said not to be so hard on the little ones, let them be lenient if it's any minor delay in the sense of late filing by a day, by two, by three, so he said everyone's suspicious, everyone's trying to rob the state. On the other hand, I say to him, dare the big ones, the ones that have armies of auditors, advisors, lawyers. I know it's complicated, but it's a lot harder than sitting there and saying, and this businessman here didn't send it until the seventh day instead of the fifth, 30,000. Yes, you can ask for forgiveness. Do you all know that you have to put a thousand-coron line? [[Reactions in the O.R.]] I was describing the particular case. The Prime Minister wanted me to give him all the documents with the agreement of the taxpayer. So you have 30,000 for this delay, then the request of a thousand crowns for remission, rejected, even though it was stated in the request that the first assumption of remission was that he had been a regular taxpayer so far. That's what the tax office confirmed, but he didn't find any important arguments as to why he would forgive. The businessman, because for him it's liquidation, is unable to pay at the same time, asked at least for a payment schedule. Behold, the fee of 400 crowns again. He didn't do anything, he didn't owe the state a penny, and he already paid 31,400. Now I suppose he'll use that option, but he'll probably have to send a request for forgiveness again for another thousand crowns. At the press conference it was presented that it will be automatically. Then I talked to the CEO on the news show tonight, and he actually said it wasn't gonna be that automatic. Let's see. So I would welcome it so that where there was no unpaid tax, only the delay, the state was lenient so that it would be predictable and not so arrogantly treating those small taxpayers who certainly pay. I am saying this because I am behind me, and again, colleagues from the budget committee, last week's 90-minute debate on koruna bonds in the budget committee, and all those who have time and taste, I recommend that they read the tape screen or watch the whole discussion. And you'll find out if I'm very lenient, that it made me unhappy. Then one of the colleagues, even from the government colleagues, described the debate: we about the goat and he about the wagon. Basically, the CEO told us that he doesn't really know how to save it, so let us advise him etc. He kept drawing attention to others and other cases involving abuse of the law. In a moment, I'll talk about how it's characterized and how abuse of law is described. That means he didn't have the guts to say, we're gonna investigate. Of course, I'm not authorized or willing to say that somebody did some tax offense in the koruna bond operation. That's what the Financial Administration is for. This is not a matter to be decided by the Budget Committee or the Chamber of Deputies. And none of us even suggested it. We have asked the Director General to draw up a methodology on the basis of which the Financial Administration will examine all cases of the issue of koruna bonds in 2012. I'm referring to everyone, not chosen. [[15.00 hours]] The director himself said that when he looked at the statistics, in 2012 it was unusual and only one year's enormous increase in the issue of these bonds, and then there is a legitimate doubt as to whether it was in fact hidden dividend payments, where, as you know, dividends with 15% tax. And I want to remind you of our long-term program and the thing for which we have not yet received support, we think it has the character of double taxation and that a much cleaner solution is to exempt dividends tax from tax, from the withholding tax of 15%. Then perhaps, if that were true by then, there would be no incentive to issue koruna bonds. Because I believe that the owner who produces the profit has the right to pay his share of the profit, it is already taxed money and there is no reason why he would tax it again. That is the right and systemic approach to dividends. Not some one-off proposals, amendments after three years in the position proposed by the Minister of Finance. I will try to tell you a few sentences about what is called the concept of abuse of law, it is a matter that is commonly used both in the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union and also in the legislative and judicial practice of the Czech Republic. Let's get back to the methodology. We have asked the Director-General to draw up a methodology. He said to us, I'll sum it up a bit, maybe I'm paraphrasing: "It's none of your business, it's not a matter of committee and Members, it's a matter of Financial Administration." That is why I was talking about the press conference where the Minister of Finance and the Member said: "We have changed the methodology here. And we will forgive the fines." I said, that's right. But one day, it is possible to change the methodology at the direction of the Member and at the same time the Minister of Finance, and the second time it is not possible, and the Head of the Financial Administration tells us that we have exceeded the House's Rules of Procedure, that this is not our place. So I say, without wanting to decide the dispute, it's either always true or never. And not if it's a government MP or a Member who's also a finance minister, it's possible, and we still have a press conference where we're making a solemn announcement -- let's hear the press conference if you haven't seen it last Monday or this Monday, I don't know, I think it was last Monday, and then read the answer from the Director of the Financial Administration, who says it's not really working, that it's none of our business. So let him choose. It's never or always. That's pretty simple. Back to the concept of abuse of law. In principle, it is said when I simplify it, that abuse of law can occur when you formally fulfil all the requirements of law or law, but it turns out that the only real reason was to obtain a tax advantage. Such cases were also in practice. I will use a completely different one to not be accused that it is directed only in one direction, but it was, in the professional public, it is a very well-known case where entrepreneurs have done within the framework of the law, where you have the opportunity to give donations to non-profit organizations, e.g. sports or educational, and deduct it from the tax base under legal conditions. So they did, they didn't break the law. They sent it to a selected organization that had the character of a nonprofit organization, so it accepted it by law. This organization organized a therapeutic educational rehabilitation stay by the sea or by the ocean. Nice, too. And the participants were the owners of the company that stood at the beginning. Everything by the law. Nobody broke the law. But it was stated, and rightly, that the concept of abuse was used and that the sole purpose of all these transactions was to pay a vacation. And I think we can agree that these are not tax-recognizable costs. I'm talking about tax deductible costs, I'm not talking about costs in general. So many taxpayers use this principle, all Western countries fight it, the caselaw exists at the level of the European Court of Justice and in our country. And now the debate on koruna bonds and the fact that - and this is the only and I think the correct request of the budget committee - for the Financial Administration to verify whether, when issued by the owner and purchased only by the owner, there was no fulfilment of the abuse of the right. I don't see anything wrong with it, no personal attack, no political attack. We don't know how that clearance is gonna turn out. We would like this to be checked for all 500 entities that issued these bonds. And the Financial Administration could split them into two groups. To a group where the bonds weren't bought by the owners, and a group where they were shopping. I never claimed or claimed that there was a violation of the law either by issuing or issuing koruna bonds or by selling, or by buying on the other hand. But it's obvious that the concept could work here. Someone's supposed to check it out, and the state has Financial Administration to do it. The CEO has come up with an amazing argument as to why he's not going to save it. Because he says: "Yes, there is a concept of abuse, we fight it, we have experience with it. But that must be a very sophisticated and sophisticated system." And from those words, it turns out that when someone did it that easily, that even the members of the budget committee would think of it, it's just not a sophisticated system. And if it's not sophisticated, it's transparent. And when it's transparent, it couldn't have been an abuse of the law, because what if, how could anyone think of such a simple thing if it's not so sophisticated, covered up, disguised. That's all. In the answer we received yesterday, the CEO tells us that it's quite nice that they would need some evidence to get them to start checking. And that the members of the Budget Committee didn't bring any evidence, but if they do, let them bring it to the tax administration. So if, in general, we stick to this principle that the Financial Administration can only be controlled where it has some proof that there has been an error, then tell me how they will start routine controls for ordinary entrepreneurs, for example. VAT. Okay, they can still say you have an unexpected VAT refund, it's different than usual. But, for example, income tax. And if I followed that logic and went to the company's management and said, "Hello, this is the Financial Administration," we'd like to do a check on corporate taxes for the last three years. And the management says, "Do you have any evidence?" We don't. So when you have them, come over, 'cause you say you won't investigate without evidence, so what's the difference? Why do I and someone else don't? I guess we feel it's not the right concept. That's not how the Financial Administration's control work could work. And in my opinion - and I have raised these questions to the Committee on Budgets, and I have asked for a written answer and I expect what will be answered to all of us because I have asked that all members of the Committee on Budgets receive the answer. I have asked some questions which, in my opinion, should be examined by the Financial Administration and then concluded whether or not there has been an abuse of the law. And I will raise these questions to you so that you can assess whether or not they are relevant and whether they lead or do not lead, or whether they raise doubts that there might have been an abuse of the law. First question: Was the issuer of bonds in a situation where he needed external financing of his investment activities to this extent? Was he or wasn't he? There's a way to find out. Second question: Did the issuer discuss the possibility of external financing of its investment needs with other entities at that time? This can also be easily demonstrated whether he acted or did not act, whether he was willing or not, the bank was, was not, worse conditions, better conditions. It was financing through interest yield bonds, e.g. 6 per cent per year more favourable to the issuer than standard bank loan financing? Everyone can see how many PRIBOR, 1M PRIBOR, 3M PRIBOR were at the time, what were the average bank margins and whether the amount is normal or higher than usual. If anyone was talking today that someone was issuing with 18 percent, it's perfectly obvious that the amount was highly non-standard, and the Financial Administration should have been doing it a long time ago. Maybe she did. [[15.10 hours]] We've also asked them to give us comprehensive information. When the CEO complimented himself - I gave away 102 miles. We checked 100 companies, six of which we found faults and measured together, I don't know what, 10 million, 100 million, billion. Mr. Faltýnek said 1.5 billion. Yesterday on TV. The Director General told us - and I can then quote his statement, authentic, live, when he said: I have not yet noticed that this issue of koruna bonds has occurred with some tax entity. At the same time, a week later, the chairman of the ANO Group of Parliament claims that he knows that this has happened and that the housewives are 1.5 billion. We should probably be interested to know who's right, whether President Faltýnek or Mr General Director of the Financial Administration. That's clearly a contradiction. And an amount of 1.5 billion. was spoken out. And I don't know what. Or does Chairman Faltýnek have any extra access to Financial Administration information? Another question we should ask ourselves, virtually. Financial Administration: What is the reason for those issuers who offered to sell those bonds, the possibility that only the owner and no one else could purchase them was chosen? There must have been a reason. Because if they were attractive bonds with a good interest rate, maybe other than the owner would sign up. Another question that is completely legitimate and perhaps crucial in the debate: For what reason were bonds issued at a nominal value of one crown? Let us accept that a firm, an issuer, needed resources for its future investments, that can happen and that happens, and that is why it decided to issue e.g. 3 billion bonds and will try to raise 3 billion for its future investment. But he could issue millions of bonds, 100 million, tens of thousands, thousands, hundreds of crowns. He chose the hardest path, the largest number - 3 billion bonds per crown. And the legitimate question of Financial Administration is, why did you choose the koruna? Try answering that question for yourself. I don't think the answer is that complicated. Why have a $3 billion record, plus if only one buyer can have it, when it's certainly much more difficult to keep 30 thousand papers in the record. It's logical that it's easier to record 3 billion than 30,000, isn't it? That's what everybody thinks. Or maybe you'll find another, as likely answer. But again, these questions should be asked by the Financial Administration and not by us. And then when I take specific questions about those discussed koruna bonds of the Minister's company, there are still two questions that come from public sources. First of all, for what reason was only 1,482,270,000 sold for the $3 billion? Just take it in quotation marks. Less than 50 per cent. That's weird, isn't it? If someone's issuing $3 billion, they can only buy it themselves and buy less than half of it. Because they can be bought even further, that's what I'm saying. It is not important for future purchase and let's give it a future return the moment of purchase of the bond, but the moment of issue of the bond. And the last question, which is legitimate again, and each of us can answer: What is the reason why these particular bonds were issued three days before the amendment of the law? Three days later, it wouldn't be possible. Did the company really need the money in three days? Did she still have to pay the invoice on December 29th? Or was the reason different? These are legitimate questions, and the answers are to be sought by the Financial Administration. Neither the budget committee of the House nor the Chamber of Deputies as a whole. But when it is evident from the public appearance of the Chief of Financial Administration, from the public appearance of the same person on the budget committee that they simply do not want to save it, and say that they do not know both, then it is clear that the Budget Committee had to adopt some resolution, draw attention to this problem and ask the Financial Administration to take action to create a methodology and to have a special financial office in charge of large companies - I think most of those issuers were big companies to proceed in all cases. This resolution is not to examine one issue of one issuer, but to all. But the Director General wrote that if we didn't give him the evidence, he didn't actually have anything to do with the investigation and control. And to those rather inappropriate comparisons, such as that next time the Chamber of Deputies could tell the courts how to decide, I would like to remind everyone who says that we have three powers in the Constitution: executive, legislative and judicial. Which is the Financial Administration, co-workers and co-workers? To executive power. Who, colleagues, colleagues, is responsible for the executive power? The government. Most Prime Minister, I agree - I would like to say to colleagues from the YES movement who tell me so and say nothing to us, the Prime Minister. I didn't trust this government! None of my fellow Members from the MPs put their trust in this government. You do. This is your Prime Minister. Pretend he's not, but he's your prime minister. And everyone here can take a vote on trust to the government. So don't throw it like that, don't say it's not our Prime Minister, it's the one from the ČSSD. You voted in the constitutional role of Parliament to express confidence in this government, we did not. And where do the courts go? Simple question. To the power of the court. So this is an illustration that if we, as part of our control work, want the government, the bodies that belong to the government exclusively - I remind you of the press conference - the Minister, the Deputy Minister, the Head of Financial Administration, we have changed the methodology. I can't do it all of a sudden. And that's it. That's really it. And then I learn from my colleagues in the ANO movement that it is personal, political, old. It's not like that at all. I don't know what the problem is. I see the problem with the fact that the Financial Administration dares and dares to do small things, you stalk them today and daily, simply handing out fines for petty and senseless mistakes and fearing the big ones. And that's it. And we should all be here to help the little ones and babysit the big ones. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-010-299.u29	Thank you, Mr Zbyněk Stanjur. Now, Mr Pavel Kováčik's factual comment. No? Okay. Mr Karel Fiedler, Mr Votava, then Mr Kořenek, will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-010-299.u30	Thank you, Mr President. We respect the tradition - before a properly registered Member gets his turn, it is at least an hour before all factual and preferential rights are passed. I'll try to depoliticize the subject a little bit. I don't belong to any MP club, I don't belong to any political party or movement, so I think my view will be a little independent and I'll see it with a little different eyes. I took notes during the previous performances. I don't see him anywhere. President Faltýnek said he interprets what Minister Babiš would present here. Well, if by explaining why those koruna bonds happened in the case of the minister, it was that only Kalousek and Kalousek were heard here again, and what the previous governments or past ministers were doing or what happened earlier, I don't see it as an explanation. Don't be mad at me, neither President Faltýnek, nor Mr. absent Minister Babiš, if he was to present the same. And since I know his performance, I'm afraid it would happen somehow in that spirit. [[15.20 hours]] The YES movement was created as a protest movement. They said they were going into politics to do politics differently, honestly, fairly, so that there would be a new fresh wind. And explaining the odds about these koruna bonds isn't what I said a minute ago that Kalousek was doing this here and this and this. Because it's a system error, colleagues. As we have set up our political system, it means that there can be no movement or party that will be different. She will fall very quickly into the same mode, into the same tracks. And now your ANO colleagues won't like it - but you're a shining example of it. You have already become the standard political party that excuses your own mistakes by pointing out what others have been doing, so don't be surprised that we are doing it too. That's a very sad reality. But it is a consequence of how our political system is set up that without much money, a new political system that succeeds and reaches the House cannot arise. There have been several statements here about fraud, even today by President Kalousek, and earlier by others. The Vice-President of the House of Bartošek has already said this: Do so if you have such a crucial statement. Really do, file a criminal report. I think it's time something started to work out. Let's not just make this a case of Babiš or Lex Babiš 2, or whatever we call it, it's already been said here. I looked at the explanatory memorandum for an amendment that could not be loaded yesterday, and I will not comment now, and I read that the issuers were 525. I am not only interested in Mr Babiš, I am also interested in the other issuers, and I will be very curious if we learn from the Financial Administration as a budget committee, which I am Vice-President of, what cases were there and when the owners bought it themselves. I suppose it will probably not just be Minister Babiš, that it will also concern others, so let us see it as a big problem in general and let us not just make it a case of Babiš, even if I think it concerns the Vice Prime Minister too, I spoke about it on the Committee on Budgets, on the grounds that the matter has two planes, both a legal and moral level. The legal plane, which has been said here several times and it has been discussed in very detail on the Committee on Budgets, I must admit that it was quite specifically mentioned in the introductory words of Mr Kalousek. It's a moral level. If a new politician comes along and says: I'll do everything fair, taxes have to be paid, don't cheat, don't do the tricks, I'll come up with the tricks and stop you - then here we see that they are trying at least very cleverly to exploit imperfections in tax laws, legislation. Given what's been said here, I really feel like there's been a violation of the law. After all, a colleague from the Committee on Budgets, a member of the ANO movement, Professor Rais, made that clear on the Committee on Budgets: it was tax optimization, it is normal, it is done. If he's an expert on this subject, I believe he knows what he's saying. A member of the YES movement himself says so. That's how I see it. It is also my view that if we are treading on carousels, which is very right and I very much agree with that, and I am very fond of Minister Babiš in this matter to reveal the kobra carousels as much as possible, I am afraid that there has also been a roundabout among the subjects in which Mr Babiš has always been involved. Maybe a little carousel, too. I say maybe, I'm not accusing anyone, I'm not pressing charges. I think that what the Committee on Budgets, of which I am a member, is required correctly to explain the whole matter. That's all. But I haven't had an explanation yet, I've only been given the mutual insults of one, the other, present, absent, I don't think that's going anywhere. It has again been said here, today by President Faltýnek and often earlier by Minister Babiš, about the taxes paid. How much his companies paid their taxes, how much he makes. I have a slightly different view of it. I think that two figures should be put together that are linked to the state budget and to the public budgets, and that is, on the one hand, the taxes paid, the more, the better, and the less, the better. For the total balance of the state budget, it's some kind of indicator. If we should be consistent, we should also consider how much social insurance has been paid, health insurance, which would otherwise be paid by the state for the unemployed, and so on and so on. It's more of a level theory. But if a simplified statement is used, how much taxes have been paid, I will allow myself to use a simplified view: Make a sum of it - how much I have paid in taxes and how much I have obtained from it. And then it may come to my attention that a number of small businesses, businessmen, are more beneficial to the budget than some large holdings. That's how I'd see it. You can see it that way. I've spoken before about what the coalition is doing here. I am surprised to you, colleagues from the coalition, that after three years you have yet to find these fundamental contradictions and that you are now criticizing each other. For three years, you've worked beautifully, the election's coming up, so you're starting to fire at each other. To the two remaining coalition parties: I think you should realise what you have done here by holding this government in this manner and declaring the laws that could have been passed. Mrs Pekarová has already spoken about the presence of Members and Ministers. Very well said to my colleague Pekarová. I agree. Minister Babiš is an MP. As an MP and as a minister, he has a blunt reason to be at the House meeting, and he doesn't have to plan things at the time of the House meeting, so I don't know what it's like, maybe even a lecture, I don't know if it's ministerial or private for some private event, I don't know, so I don't want to get into it too much. When I look in the government desks, there's the secretary. [[Marks.]] He's filling in today for Herman's presence minister, who always does the present. That says something about it, too. Citizens are watching what is happening in the Chamber of Deputies. And it's a good thing the citizens are starting to watch it. I've been looking at Facebook, I've been getting written by friends who, if they don't see this broadcast on Czech TV anymore, they watch it online. Which is a shame that many citizens don't know that they can watch a broadcast from the House online at any time and watch what's going on here. I registered two things there. When a million former Prime Minister Gross were dealt with, it was a case that was transmitted by Czech TV online. When we're dealing with a lot more millions, hundreds of millions, billions of dollars, it doesn't air, which is a little weird. [[15.30 hours]] I also have a question about my colleague Kalousek. He's here. I don't know these things, and as a former minister, maybe you can give me an explanation. And I have a question for Mr. Babiš, he's not here, he's here for you. First question. When did the possibility of issuing koruna bonds come into existence? Question specifically to you through Mr President, Mr Kalousek, why you have not taken any action under your Government to address this. You explained it in your speech that it was not a matter of legislation. Minister Babiš obviously sees this in the matter of legislation, which is why he had an amendment prepared for yesterday, but I ask - I see that Kolega Kalousek wants to respond - when the opportunity to issue koruna bonds arose. These are the years 2011, 2012. They're standard. 2013 is over. And it has already been said very rightly here that the issue of koruna bonds, which then concern Mr Babiš, occurred three days before the end of this option. Personally, that just confirms that my colleague Rais was right. It was a purposeful tax optimization. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-010-299.u31	I thank Mr Karel Fiedler. Mr. Miroslav Kalousek claims priority, so I will give him the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-010-299.u32	Thank you. Let me answer Mr Fiedler's question and then explain one more technical matter to the Income Tax Act. The possibility of issuing koruna bonds was modified by the Income Tax Act 1993. There was a possibility. They say there's no tax on koruna bonds. The exact definition is that yields to one crown are rounded downwards. When, on the basis of a long-term recommendation from the National Economic Council, we decided to issue koruna bonds for households - that is, anyone who wants to buy them - we proceeded to the nominal value of one koruna bonds for one single and simple reason because we offered reinvestment bonds. If I was to credit Mr. Karel Fiedler or Mr. Faltýnek with 321 crowns in bonds, it simply was not possible except for the crown nominal value and the law allowed it. Of course, the interest rate also corresponded to that. The interest rate we offered for five-year bonds, I believe, was about 3.2 percent, counting on the fact that the bonds would not be taxed, that they would not pay tax. It's not that the koruna bonds were to make it attractive. It wasn't a problem. If they were taxed, the interest rate would be fifteen hundredth higher. The interest rate was fixed by the Ministry of Finance. It is also not true that we issued them because otherwise we were unable to raise money in the market. There was a lot of money in the market. There were normal interest rates, and there was no reason why only financial institutions should make money from the government's debt service, why it could not be a decent savings product for the middle class that buys bonds for 100, 200 thousand crowns. I am also glad that the median bond was, indeed, the average value of the issue sold was about CZK 100,000 that bought one household. So much was the cause of the state. Of course, bonds issued by companies specifically for their owners are a completely different universe. The only thing they have in common with household bonds is that it's called bonds and that they were issued at the nominal value of one crown, not because there was a need to reinvest in crowns, but because their owners didn't want to pay taxes, and it was a hidden dividend payment. We issued the first issue of koruna bonds for households 11. 11. 2011. I remember that to this day, that was the day of reconciliation. It is true that during December and January, the Financial Administration intercepted information that it was likely to become an optimization hit, that a lot of sissies would grab on and do exactly what Agrofert did to his owner. I know that the tax advisors advised many others who didn't use it because it wasn't ethical, so don't do something like that. We responded immediately. We responded immediately, even using the way of the parliamentary amendment. I remember in January 2012, I asked my colleagues from the TOP 09 to submit an amendment to the MP. It concerned Members of Laudát and Husák, and they immediately submitted to the Member's amendment that even bonds with a yield of up to one crown would be taxed at a rate of 15 per cent. The amendment was also submitted, and the law began to apply. But as we know, the Income Tax Act always applies from 1. 1. the following year, i.e. 2012 was indeed the year of the extraordinary issue of koruna bonds, and none of us, I repeat, at the Ministry of Finance, none of us, or in the then management of the Financial Administration, had any doubt that in all these cases at the beginning of 2014, there had to be a detailed examination of the case on a case-by-case basis, because in some cases it could indeed be a completely legal procedure and it really was the issue of koruna bonds, and in a number of other cases, it was certainly not just the case of Agrofert, it was a hidden dividend payment, so it was essentially the dividend payment and it would be added as a dividend payment. Of course, such an intervention by the Financial Administration often has an end to the administrative courts. The taxpayer is defending himself. In other words, so that these cases are as little as possible, so that the legal proceedings are as low as possible, we immediately applied legislative change. But the detailed checks and the fact that in a number of cases there will be a tax, in some cases perhaps even a handover to law enforcement authorities, no one doubted that. But in 2014, one of these issuers, in the form of the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the buyer in one person, became the Minister of Finance, so it didn't happen. That's all I can answer. There was no delay, where the steps really went at once, and the tax administration is now playing blind. I don't know if my answer is exhausting if I fill it in. Let me make one more technical point. In the written opinion of the Minister of Finance, who sent us from his feast in southern Bohemia, who attends instead of sitting in the Chamber of Deputies, when the House meets, it is also written that I am wrong, given that, when buying shares, Agrofert cannot reduce its tax base. And I have experience, so I would like to explain it, in the last two months, that whenever we communicate the question of tax bonds, abuse of law in tax legislation and individual tax regulations, it is an extremely sophisticated subject for a large part of the public and that it is extremely difficult to explain - not only to the public, but even to journalists who are engaged in it, so I am making shortcuts. Of course, for some shortcut, you can grab me and say it's not like that, it's different. Of course, if you buy shares as a legal person and you purchase them as property, the moment you purchase them, you can't lower your tax base, but the moment you sell the property back, Agrofert can sell it back to his owner at any time, the moment you sell the property, you put the purchase price on your expense. And since the purchase price was pointlessly high, of course, the second tax evasion with a legal person occurs on the timeline. If we want to train each other here from the Income Tax Act, I am, of course, ready, we can do a four-hour seminar. But that doesn't change the fact that there was a double tax fraud, even textbook and primitive, by the natural person of Agrofert's share sales operation. I was mostly shocked by how primitive it was, because today it is done much more sophisticatedly and it is harder to reveal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-010-299.u33	I thank Mr Kalousek. Mr Fiedler's point of fact, and then Mr Votava's colleague. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-010-299.u34	Thank you. So, to my colleague Kalousek, to the explanation. Thank you for him. So the possibility, as stated in the explanatory memorandum of that amendment by Minister Babiš, was the possibility of issuing koruna bonds in 1993 and was not used for the first time until 2011? Isn't that right? And you're like the then Financial Administration, you say 11. 11. at the end of the year they had these signals, during the legislative process you didn't make it to apply from 1. 1. 2012, i.e. from 1. 1. 2013. And it wasn't. If I could just ask you to explain this period as it was. So if, since then, after that year 2013, the koruna bonds have not been issued by the state, it is only a commercial sphere. In that case, I think it might be appropriate to treat this legislatively so that this can never happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-010-299.u35	I thank Mr Karel Fiedler for his time. Another colleague Kalousek, also with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-010-299.u36	No, I'm good with de facto, so I'm good with de facto. 11. 11. we issued koruna bonds. I can apologize for not having a criminal brain, that we didn't really think anyone would abuse that right. When the Financial Administration began to signal in January that the right was likely to be abused, we immediately proposed legislative change, even through a parliamentary amendment. However, the Income Tax Act is always given to 1. 1. 2013. So, in theory, that year 2012 gave room for abuse of the right to those for whom the ethically acceptable right in the tax field is to abuse. From 1. 1. 2013 koruna bonds are taxed and the Ministry of Finance for the Minister... Then they were still sold for households with taxed koruna bonds, and that was the higher interest, of course. And at the moment the European Central Bank and the Czech Central Bank began to intervene and interest fell into non-standard minus numbers, so, of course, household bonds for Minister Babiš were stopped. It's the right decision to have no effect at this point. However, when we return to normal interest rates, I believe that it will be quite soon, or I think it will be quite soon, so I believe that any ministry will return to household emissions again, because it is good to have part of the government's debt held by households.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-010-299.u37	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Václav Votava, now announced, will prepare colleague Petr Kořenek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-010-299.u38	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I would like to return to the Committee on Budgets, which took place on 8 April. And I must say and insist on the resolution adopted by the Budget Committee of the Parties to the General Financial Directorate. I believe that 12 colleagues from the Committee on Budgets who have raised their hand also insist on this resolution. I think they voted according to their best consciousness and conscience. And they were Members without distinction of party shirts, that is to say, they were Members of both social democracy and KSČM Members and ODS Members, as well as Members of TOP 09, an unattached Member. I don't know if I missed anyone. I have left out ANO because the members of the YES have abstained. I don't blame them. It's their owner. The possibility of circumventing the law in connection with the so-called koruna bonds issued by the company and bought only by owners of the company has been brought to the attention of the media. And, of course, it resonates in society, people ask, they ask Members. And I have also decided to put this on the agenda of the Budget Committee, as an information from the General Financial Directorate on the position of the tax authorities on the issue of taxation of the proceeds of koruna bonds. The fact that this is linked to the owner, former owner of Agrofert, current finance minister, is not our fault. The Minister has simply participated as an entrepreneur, and the Minister is of course also a media frequented person. I do not know why the inclusion of this point should be an abuse of the Committee on Budgets in any political struggle or against Minister Babiš. That's what I heard from his mouth. And I just want to say that, in the past, the Committee on Budgets, and it is its own, has dealt with a number of different things, whether it was the information we required from the General Financial Directorate on the abolition of financial offices, whether it was information on the personnel status of the Customs Administration, where basically almost the entire management had left, and we were interested in how the Financial Administration's operation is ensured, whether it was the issue of taxation of shippers working in the Netherlands. In other words, I am going to once again place this point on the next budget committee, as the Financial Administration has taken a stand on this and whether there is any possibility and helpfulness of the Financial Administration towards these very ones, and I must say to the unfortunate people. So I don't see anything wrong, nothing inappropriate when a point was included that I also named, which concerned relatively serious suspicions about koruna bonds issued by companies and bought only by their owners. We weren't talking about the koruna bonds that were buying households, those were the koruna bonds of the state. It must be said that the Budget Committee has a certain control role in the Ministry of Finance, namely the General Financial Directorate. And in no way did we interfere with any of our own tax investigations. We didn't demand anything to break tax secrets and violate confidentiality. And I think we can ask for the information we asked for, and we can also recommend a different procedure. This is essentially expressed in the resolution that it agreed to, and I emphasise it again, 13 (?) out of 16 members of the Budget Committee, regardless of party shirts outside the ANO colleagues. Also, the Committee on Budgets does not investigate anything. I heard from the Minister that we were investigating Mr. CEO Janeček, that we demoted him on that committee. I must be clear against these words. Minister Babiš wrote to the Prime Minister a letter full of invectives against me and some other colleagues. I don't think it's worth commenting on. Those who were there saw... Maybe they didn't all see the whole record of the meeting, so they'd definitely take a picture of it. [[15.50 hours]] Mr Director General Janeček, and it has already been mentioned here, has sent me a letter, and I will just quote: "In paragraph one of the resolutions of the Committee on Budgets, there is evidenceable suspicion that some issuers and their owners may have abused or circumvented tax laws in 2012 when issuing so-called koruna bonds. I was present at the hearing, but no specific suspicions and relevant evidence have been discussed, and the conclusions made in the resolution should be based on the course of the hearing. At the same time, the statement in paragraph 1 of the resolution does not indicate what particular suspicions are involved and how the Committee on Budgets demonstrates them.' Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if I was on that budget committee where Mr. CEO Janeček was. It seems that we were both at some other meeting, because not only me but also colleagues were mentioned a number, a number of serious suspicions as to why the law and the abuse of law really took place. I greatly appreciate ordinary workers, not only those in the ranks, but also the executives of the Financial Administration, who are certainly also paid for the money they have, and it is not excessive money, often have to hear the taxpayers' unpleasant words of what money they work for. But I have to lean against their boss here. What he wrote in his letter isn't true. I'll just say about the suspicion that took place on the budget committee. Bonds could only be purchased by the owners of the companies that issued the bonds. Isn't that a suspicion anymore? Doesn't that create any doubts? Why couldn't others buy it? Why was it just for the owners? Whether the owners themselves had enough money to buy bonds or was it not merely a fictional trade between the owner and his company? This was also said on the Committee on Budgets. Why the short period of three days? And that, unfortunately, concerns Minister Babiš and his company Agrofert. Three days before the end of the opportunity to issue, issue bonds, so why did Agrofert issue those bonds? Three days. That's what we've been talking about. The interest rate is significantly different from the usual interest rate. There are bonds with an interest rate of 18 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, 18 percent! Agrofert has six, that's true. The average koruna bonds ranged between 2.05 and 3.28 %. The maturity of the bonds. It is true that Agrofert is 10 years old, but ladies and gentlemen, there are also bonds that have maturity by 2062! Can you imagine? I don't think we're gonna be the elders here anymore, so I don't think we're gonna benefit from that. Fifty years! Fifty years. And whether the company's economic reasons for issuing such bonds were the companies that paid for and paid the interest. Maybe I'd just come back a little bit further for the sake of clarity, or develop some things. Yes, it is possible that in some cases it was actually simulated transactions. In other words, the company was issuing koruna bonds, but the partner in issuing them means buying them, either not paying the company the appropriate price, or taking the money from the company and transferring it back to it, or something similar purposeful. That's suspicious. And the source of these very funds and the circumstances of their transfer, if they have occurred at all during the issuance of bonds to the shareholders, should therefore be checked by the Financial Administration. If it was not simulated transactions and the partners actually transferred money to their companies when buying bonds, then, of course, it is possible to verify whether the companies used the funds they received. In other words, whether they had any real economic reason for issuing bonds, of course, to pay interest on them. The reason for this could be, for example, planned investments, expansion of the company, purchase of other companies, subsidiaries, etc. Simply put, the Financial Administration should just check what they did with the money from the company's sold bonds and whether they were able to demonstrate economic reasons for issuing bonds, or to draw on the amount of funds that interest paid. Furthermore, if the company's economic reasons, that is the need for a financial injection, do not demonstrate, the concept of abuse of the right mentioned in the introduction can be applied. As a result, there would be an assessment of corporate tax, non-recognition of interest on the part of companies, and if the shareholders did not refund the interest paid, then the income tax on the members' personal income would be the amount of interest paid. Of course, this too should be examined by the Financial Authority. The Income Tax Act contains § 23 para. 7, according to which the taxable amount is adjusted by a difference which is different from the so-called normal price between the parties, i.e. prices which would be negotiated between independent parties under similar conditions. If the difference is not sufficiently substantiated, the price, i.e. the interest rate, depends, of course, on specific conditions, but according to the publicly available emissions survey, in some cases it was very high, I said around 18.5%. That, too, should be examined by the Financial Administration, the tax administration. Therefore, if issued bonds have been purchased by a related party, a partner, the Financial Administration should also examine such interest rates. I was talking about the time or maturity for which the bonds were issued - 2062, 50 years. So, ladies and gentlemen, the budget committee's meeting was focused on everyone, all the issuers and their owners. It was not limited to the current minister, Mr Babiš. I think it's in his interest - and he's not a regular taxpayer today. He's not a regular taxpayer, he's a finance minister. And he's the finance minister that he put in wine, and it's the right thing to do, to fight tax evasion, to fill the state register, but that's how he should treat it. Minister Babiš turns any criticism to others. And he should explain it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-010-299.u39	I thank Mr Václav Votav. And before I interrupt this item at a fixed point at 16 o'clock, I will announce the next procedure. We now have two minutes to make a factual comment by Mr Karel Fiedler, and then Mr Kořenek is the first to be registered, then Mr František Laudát and Mr Klaška. In this order we will then continue after the point that we have firmly placed at 16 hours, when I have to interrupt this point. Mr Fiedler has the floor on a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-010-299.u40	I'll follow up on Mr. Speaker, Chairman of the Votava Committee. I thank my colleague Holečka for drawing attention to some of the data that can be found publicly. I took a look at it. This is an overview of the 2012 issued bonds. I couldn't print it, but it's a long drive, it's supposed to be 525. And, of course, the gross of those koruna bonds is November and December. Not many were published during the year. Logically, when the term was approaching, when this could be applied, it was quickly published. It's not just the agroholding that's there to see 28. 12. There are a number of other companies, I won't name them, I'm sure we'll deal with this in the Committee on Budgets, or we'll wonder why there are such large amounts of bonds, some of them higher, and it'll be interesting to ask who was the buyer, whether the issuing company itself, or the persons associated with it, or someone else. I highly recommend that you, colleagues, look at this, and I am sure that we will continue to look into this in the Committee on Budgets. It is not the case of Babiš, it is the case of the general, which Minister Babiš falls into. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-010-299.u41	I thank Mr Karel Fiedler for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I'm interrupting the point that we have - 299. And before I begin the point of change in the institutions, in the composition of the Chamber of Deputies, I will read the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr. Josef Vondrášek apologizes for personal reasons, Mr. Josef Kott apologises from 17.30 to 19.30 and from 16.00 to the end of the day, Mr. Josef Šenfeld apologizes. I'm starting a point now.
