ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-017-002.u1	2. Government bill amending Act No. 159/1999 Coll., on certain business conditions and on the performance of certain tourism activities, as amended, and other related laws /house printing 12/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, Karla Šlechtová, Minister for Regional Development, will state the proposal. Madam Secretary already knows she's gonna take the floor, so she's got a good standing up, which is great. So, Madam Secretary, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-017-002.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me present to you at first reading our proposal for amendment No. 159 on promoting tourism business. Perhaps many of you, old Members, or others. Members of the previous Chamber of Deputies, you remember that we had this law here about two years ago. It was a small novel where travel agencies and insurance companies stood up to us a little bit. We had some really big problems. During that time, actually since this amendment, the European Commission has come up with a directive on the protection of consumer rights and, of course, tourism, and this amendment serves for this. This is purely a transposition amendment, which should ensure higher consumer protection, meaning citizens of the Czech Republic who buy tours through both travel agencies and agencies. Of course, this is the difference. At the moment, the Czech Republic is putting one more thing into this, and that is so called. Guarantee fund. The guarantee fund is a new institute that will be managed by the State Housing Development Fund. It is a fund in which travel agents will put their contributions, so that we can really ensure that, if anything happens abroad or in other conditions, there are means that we can use to ensure the return of our citizens back to the Czech Republic. [[16.20 hours]] As regards the transposition, the transposition amendment and the requirements of the European Commission, respectively. The European Union to the Czech Republic, to all Member States, not only to our state, so it is a more accurate definition of the concept of tour, because tour of course is different than for example. buying something only from a travel agency, introducing customer protection when purchasing a new product, e.g. related travel services, i.e. for example, in response to online sales of tours and others, extending information obligations for travel agencies and travel agencies, which is very important, and of course also the regulation of supervision of compliance with law and control of obligations. Since I am here only for the first reading as Minister for Regional Development and the author of this law is the future Minister for Regional Development, Klára Dostálová, I was informed that this law is presented here without conflict, so I hope that it will be admitted to second reading at this time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-017-002.u3	Madam Secretary, thank you. Now, I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Adam Kalous. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-017-002.u4	Mr President, Dear Government, fellow Members, this is House Press No. 12 entitled Amendment to the Act on the Conditions of Business in Tourism - EU, No. 159/1999 Coll., and related laws. The Minister has informed you in detail of the proposed amendment to Act No. 159/1999 Coll., on certain conditions of business and on the pursuit of certain activities in the field of tourism, as amended, and related laws. I would just like to stress that the main reason for submitting this proposal is the fulfilment of the Czech Republic's obligation as a Member State of the European Union to transpose the directive of the European Union and the obligation of the Czech Republic to ensure the timely and proper transposition of this directive, when the national transposition regulation should be notified to the European Commission by 1 January 2018 and take effect by 1 July 2018 at the latest. This government proposal is a purely transposition law amending Act No. 159/1999 Coll., et seq. Act No. 455/1991 Coll., on business, Act No. 89/2012 Coll., Civil Code, and Act No. 211/2000 Coll., on the State Housing Development Fund. Among the most important objectives presented by the Government's bill amendment are the unification of rules for tours and associated travel services within the internal market of the European Union, which will also increase consumer protection standards and thus all travel agency clients. I therefore recommend this press to proceed to second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-017-002.u5	I thank the rapporteur for his first reading to Mr Adam Kalous. I am opening up a general debate, and since I do not see anyone volunteering, I would ask for a replacement of Vice-President Pikal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-017-002.u6	Thank you. I beg Vice-President Tomio Okamura to speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-017-002.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, we have an amendment to Act No. 159/1999 Sb., which is governed by tourism business, as well as by the conditions for consumer protection. And precisely consumer protection is a priority for us in our SPD movement, our goal. At the same time, our aim is the conditions for Czech entrepreneurs comparable to the advanced countries of the European Union so that our entrepreneurs are not disadvantaged. I must say at the outset that these conditions are unfortunately not met by the Government's bill. And here I have to follow up on the rapporteur, because the implementation contained in this law is not that much implementation, but it is in addition to the implementation that matters are inserted that need not be implemented at all, and the directive does not require it. I mean a guarantee fund, i.e. the second pillar of travel agency insurance. That's what I'm gonna talk about. The problem is the provisions of the bill, which go completely beyond the requirements of the implementation of Directive No. 2302/2015, and in our opinion - and I apologize to the Ministry - are the result of lobbying insurance companies. Let's take a closer look at the problem. The current Act No. 159/1999 Coll. guarantees mine. consumer protection in the event of insolvency of travel agents. This is a very important matter and it is necessary for the consumer to be protected and repatriated at all times and to be reimbursed by all funds, as required by the European Union directives and constitutional courts - both European and Czech. I agree with that, of course, and without reservation. Here it must be fully said that the existing wording of the Act, which was last amended at the end of 2015, is, therefore, recently, a sufficient implementation of the European Union Directive in the sense of consumer protection in the event of insolvency under Art. 17 of the Directive. I quote: "Member States shall ensure that organisers established in their territory provide a guarantee of the repayment of all or in favour of all payments made by or on behalf of travellers, unless the services concerned are provided as a result of the insolvency of the organiser.' End of quote. In accordance with Article 8 (2) of the Treaty, the Commission has to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market and whether it is compatible with the internal market. 2 of the existing version of Act No. 159 is required by the travel agency to maintain a limit of insurance benefits in such a way that in the event of an insurance event all claims of clients are met. In addition, a repeated finding by the Constitutional Court obliges insurance undertakings to return all the funds invested to their customers. The current system is fully operational and ensures the maximum possible protection of the customer in the event of the bankruptcy of the travel agency, which I will also justify in comparison with other Western countries. What is most contradictory about the bill's proposal and primarily disagrees with both professional organizations - I mean the Association of Czech Travel Agencies and the Association of Travel Agencies of the Czech Republic - is the introduction of a complete novelty that has no equivalent in any state of Western Europe. Even from all the countries of the European Union, it was only newly introduced in Poland. And it is valid only in Poland throughout Europe, as I have said. It is the introduction of a guarantee fund as the second pillar of the customer protection mechanism in the event of insolvency beyond existing legal insurance. This proposal has no logic either in terms of the vast majority of the European Union - as I said, the exception is only Poland - nor in terms of practice, as the existing system is fully operational. The introduction of a guarantee fund represents another disproportionate burden and obstacle to business. And I stress that the European Union directive does not call for the creation of a guarantee fund. As I have already said, other EU Member States do not create hedge funds and do not significantly modify existing systems, even in connection with the implementation of the directive. The exception is only Poland, where travel agencies provide only 3 to 20 per cent of annual sales for tours according to the nature of the product for insurance companies under bankruptcy insurance, i.e. disproportionately less than those currently provided by Czech travel agencies. Czech travel agencies in the Czech Republic are currently obliged by law to ensure at least 30% of annual sales, which is the most even in the whole of the European Union, so the consumer is already very protected in comparison with other countries of the European Union. Even Slovakia did not accept the originally intended additional insurance in the form of a guarantee fund following the design of the Czech Republic after an analysis which assessed the minimum risk for insurance companies. Slovák only increase the limit of securing sales of travel agencies to 25 percent, which is still 5 percent lower than Czech travel agencies have. Neighbor states like Germany - and we must look there by the way - have no change in the implementation of the directive. The law is passed and published. Austria also does not prepare additional additional insurance to the guarantee fund, only increases the insurance limit for sales from 14 per cent to 25 per cent. Less and less than the Czech Republic, which already has 30%, must provide travel agencies. France and England apply different costs to ensure against bankruptcy according to the nature of the products. They also do not prepare another pillar of collateral. And I'm still talking about implementing the directive. As I have already said, travel agencies in the Czech Republic have a legal obligation to secure at least 30% of annual sales, which is the most in the whole of the European Union. The average in the European Union is between 10 and 15 percent. [[16.30 hours]] The financial costs of tours organizers to ensure bankruptcy are the highest in the Czech Republic in the European Union. The risk of a lack of insurance limit is only for non-solid and irresponsible travel agencies. But when we look at it with common sense, this risk should not be borne by decent and honest entrepreneurs after the introduction of a so-called guarantee fund with mandatory own resources contributions. This is really very unfair to those decent and proper entrepreneurs. Both professional associations, both the Association of Czech Travel Agencies and the Association of Travel Agencies of the Czech Republic, reject the principle that the damage caused by the criminal conduct of dishonest entities should be paid by the decent and well-managed. The risk of a lack of insurance limit is only for non-solid and irresponsible travel agencies, which, however, will be borne by others without the contribution of insurance companies. But I can also get to the number of bankruptcies per number of travel agencies in the Czech Republic. However, this risk is already sufficiently captured in the current wording of the Act. By law, insurance companies have all the tools to monitor the business of travel agencies and to set a sufficient limit on insurance performance. Travel agencies have a monthly reporting obligation in sending a statement of activities with information on current sales for tours of insurance companies. In the event of an increase in collected sales for tours, travel agents are obliged to increase the insurance limit without delay. From the above, it is quite clear that the proposal to create a guarantee fund is de facto based on the requirement of insurance companies and their strong lobbying for their personal interests. It is very sad and unacceptable, too, for the state to succumb to this form of lobbying. For your information, to know the volume of sales for insurance companies and the profitability of this product there, the volume of sales for insured tours on the Czech market is approximately CZK 25 billion. On the insurance policy itself, insurance companies collect about 100 million crowns a year. In addition, they often require deposits of up to 2 per cent of annual sales. However, the payment of insurance claims due to the bankruptcy of travel agencies is only in CZK million units per year. This means that CZK 100 million will be collected on insurance and payments in approx. units of millions. It is therefore already a highly profitable product for insurance companies. Around 880 travel agencies now operate on the Czech market. Given their total number, when we look at the figures so far, the probability of bankruptcy is less than 0,5 per cent per year, i.e. on average 3 bankrupt travel agencies per year from 880. Nevertheless, insurance companies present this product as uninteresting and have essentially pushed the state to create some new guarantee fund to cover their risks - their business risks. The proposed wording supports the business of insurance companies with minimal business risk. In addition, insurance companies will newly be able to provide the customer with a continuation of the trip, which is also common in other countries, and it is a significantly less expensive form of performance. So here again - and that's okay - the insurance companies are coming forward. Insurance companies have a monopoly position on the market in the Czech Republic but do not have a legal obligation to insure travel agents in case of bankruptcy. That's another problem. As a result of this disproportion in the past, there has already been an unprecedented termination of contracts with travel agencies that could not carry out their activities. I'll take that moment too. The solution is easy: the state must allow such conditions of the law so that at least one Czech or foreign insurance company can be insured by the travel agency. Therefore, it is necessary that the provision allowing foreign insurance companies from other countries of the European Union to enter the Czech market should be returned to Section 7 of the draft amendment. Foreign insurance companies are ready to enter the Czech market. The creation of a competitive environment and the entry of new entities is the way to ensure the highest possible consumer protection. I don't understand why this passage fell out of the novel. I mean that a foreign insurance company that operates abroad could also offer insurance product on the Czech market. Because this condition is quite standard in other countries of the European Union. Let me give you an example. For example, the French law on travel agencies, I apologize, I do not speak French, Code du tourism, in work three, Article L211 to L218 clearly states that the entity providing a financial guarantee for bankruptcy is established in the territory of an EU Member State or another State which is part of the European Economic Area. This means, I am setting an example from an advanced country: Francouz, French travel agencies can easily insure themselves with an insurance company established in another country and thus create a competitive environment and business entities are not under pressure. French travel agencies can therefore in the competitive environment of insurance companies against bankruptcy even in non-French insurance companies, i.e. insurance companies that do not have a licence in France, but are within the European Union and do business there. There is another weirdness in the proposal: the newly proposed joint guarantee fund for all travel agencies should be without the participation of insurance companies. This is very strange, because it can lead to insurance companies not being forced to carry out consistent control activities or to correctly calculating the insurance limit. This means, in fact, the state is 100% guaranteeing the risk of business to the second pillar of private entities, which are proven to be actually making money on the product. Moreover, I stress that we would be the second country in the European Union at all, as others are not preparing it, and I will get to that, because some countries have already implemented this directive, for example, Germany, and, of course, there is no guarantee fund there, nor has it been prepared, nor is it in any proposal anymore, because the directive is being implemented. This means that the current proposal causes any error in the calculation of the insurance undertaking regarding the amount of insurance to be paid by travel agents, because only they will contribute to the proposed guarantee fund. Insurance companies - we suggested that part of the travel agency, part of the insurance company contribute to it, so that insurance companies should also be forced to calculate insurance premiums in a qualified and really professional manner, which is normal when we make sure that they calculate insurance premiums and are responsible for calculating it well, but they suddenly don't want to. So it's really unfair and against common sense. Therefore, as is quite clear from my explanation, the draft amendment to the law before us does not significantly strengthen the protection of the client, as this is already one of the highest in the European Union in the current version and compared to all the countries of the European Union, but rather responds to the requirement of insurance undertakings to minimise their risk and potential damage as a result of a lack of insurance coverage limit. The professional association of Czech travel agencies proposed a compromise option, although it does not agree with the proposal of the guarantee fund. They find a compromise in the introduction of a guarantee fund with a legal maximum rate of annual travel agency contributions of 0.1% of sales up to CZK 50 million, as already agreed between the Ministry, insurance companies and professional associations of travel agencies. Of course, the Ministry proposes payment to the proposed fund of 0.25 percent of sales, which is really a lot and is dealing with a disproportionate burden for travel agents, even in comparison with other EU countries. In doing so, the insurance companies agree with a rate of 0,1 %. The confirmation rate of 0.1% was presented by the Ministry at the meeting of the Sub-Committee of the Chamber of Deputies on Tourism in February 2017 - I know it was almost a year ago - and subsequently at the meeting of the Working Party on Tourism by the Deputy Head of the Regional Development Section in July 2017. However, if this rate is not legal, it will be possible to increase the contribution to the Fund in the following years and the financial burden for travel agents will be disproportionate. In the explanatory memorandum to the law, the amount of the contribution of 0,1 % is indicated only from 1. 8. 2018 by the end of the year. It is striking that the Ministry recognises in the explanatory memorandum the possibility of a higher level of cross-border purchases of tours by foreign organisers who, however, pay taxes in their state, not in the Czech Republic. This is indeed a remarkable moment in the explanatory report. Travel agencies will move their headquarters to another European Union state if their business is significantly difficult, and in the Czech Republic they will only have sales points and tax payments elsewhere. This is already allowed by current legislation. The other countries of the European Union leave the existing mechanisms of collateral unchanged, and I have already repeatedly mentioned this, as is stated in the regulatory impact assessment. The proposed contribution of 0.25 % of sales is indeed a unnecessary, disproportionate burden, which is also confirmed by the final report from the regulatory impact assessment. It is also necessary to complete the administration and operation of the guarantee fund at the State Housing Development Fund, which is a proposal from the Ministry for this new guarantee fund to be managed by the State Housing Development Fund. Since the draft law does not adequately address the administration and functioning of this reinsurance fund in connection with the administration of the State Housing Development Fund, it is not clear that the management of the allocated funds by travel agencies is not clear. They're private funds from travel agencies. [[16.40 hours]] Evaluation of sales for tours of individual entities, on the basis of which they would contribute 0,25 or 0,1 % of sales. Furthermore, the acquisition of relevant sales data, how this will actually be done. Settlement of funds in the legitimate termination of the travel agency's activities, which, however, put them in the guarantee fund. And the process of entering new entities into the market, which thus had no sales yet. In summary, we propose the following amendments to the law. In Article 7b (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the following definitions shall apply: 1, where we are talking about the entry of foreign entities into the market, we propose adding that Czech travel agencies can also insure themselves with insurance entities of other Member States of the European Union. In addition, we propose a change in the annual contribution, which now amounts to a maximum of 0.25 %, so it is stated in the law, so that it is not more than 0,1 per cent up to CZK 50 million. I would like to stress that insurance companies can basically control the management of travel agencies at any time under the existing law, travel agencies must report regularly. Reporting is once a month, so the control activity by insurance companies is basically smooth, insurance companies even have a legal right to do so. This means that if the travel agency cheats with sales or the insurance company feels that there are any distortions, the existing law already allows the insurance company to enter the accounts of the travel agency and at any time increase the limit to secure sales. It's all here today. As it is obvious, the law has such a huge amount, I would say from our point of view, flaws, when I say it with courage and question marks, that I have no choice but with full responsibility to propose the law to return the petitioner to work. So I'm putting the motion to vote to return the proposed bill to the plaintiff for work. I would like to add that, on the basis of our morning press conference, a discussion took place with Deputy Minister Dostálová. [[Minister Noble: Former.]] Uh-huh. with former Deputy Minister Dostálová from the Ministry of Regional Development. We've changed our minds with Minister Šlechtová. I have received a promise, which is why I am saying it publicly here that, in the event that the law is not returned to the applicant for work, the Ministry of Regional Development, which will now be in the sense of the ANO movement, together with the two professional associations, means the Association of Travel Agencies and the Association of Czech Travel Agencies and Agencies, they will process amendments in the sense that I have spoken about and submit them in the second reading in the form of parliamentary proposals. I don't want to block the law in any way, but I think you can see for yourself that these question marks are such an incredible number even compared to even developed Western countries, they are introducing really big news here, which is news only in the Czech Republic or now in Poland, which we would like to move in a rather western direction. Finally, I would like to say that there is no hurry in the other countries of the European Union with the amendment, even though it is to be implemented this year. We found out what's going on. The amendment to the Tourism Act, on the business of travel agencies, is still implemented on the basis of the directive only in Germany, Austria, Poland and Cyprus. So only in four countries. Everyone else is late, and like I said, they're not thinking about a hedge fund. Slovák, to look at the immediate neighbor, are already considering a shift in efficiency to 1. 1. 2019. In a way, the Czech proposal, where the proposer proposes to introduce such a law in the middle of the tourist season from 1. 7. 2018, is not very meaningful. This means that this is what I wanted to say, and I have therefore put forward a motion for a vote, or our further observations and demands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-017-002.u8	Thank you. Before we get to the written application, I have a factual remark from Mrs Dostálová. To the microphone, please. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-017-002.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I've got two minutes to make a point, just a quick response. It is not true that we are not discussing this with professional associations. Indeed, the law was brought without conflict. It is necessary to make the right point that if someone here is chasing Germany, they should also add that backups are being regulated in Germany. When we wanted to regulate backups, that means they wouldn't be selected from the client weeks in advance, we didn't march at the professional associations. We've retreated here, too. It is not true that the law does not reflect the fact that the Czech travel agency, the client can insure travel agency anywhere abroad. That, of course, is what the text regulates. It is only necessary that the relevant insurance company, which will operate on the Czech market, has a so-called notification for cross-border services, which is, of course, common among large insurance companies abroad. In addition, I would like a short tour of history. In 2015, when we actually went to negotiate an amendment to Law 159 with professional associations, it was agreed that insurance companies would actually have to pay whatever the limit was. At that time, the Supreme Court decided that insurance companies would pay whatever the insurance limit was, and the insurance companies did what they did to stop insurance. At that moment, the associations turned to the Ministry of Regional Development, that it cannot be done that it is necessary to regulate the responsibility of both travel agencies and insurance companies for the insurance limit. We have put a lot of so-called risk elements in there to eliminate the fact that they will be insured, but it has happened that both the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies have promised that it is not possible for the state to bear - albeit minimal - the risk, I agree with Mr Okamura. The law is already set up so that the sub-insurance is a minimum risk, but it still exists. And it is not possible for the state to enter into private relations. [[Time warning]] [[The President again draws attention to the time.]] So I'm begging you very much for support within the time frame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-017-002.u10	Madam, time. I'm sorry. Or you can log in to the actual note one more time, it's possible. I do not have an application for a factual comment, but I have here an application for a general debate by Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-017-002.u11	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members, I agree with some of the arguments raised here by Vice-President Okamura. The reinsurance fund is certainly not part of the mandatory implementation, it is above its framework. Liberalization in the internal market of the European Union is certainly worth discussing, which means access to insurance and foreign insurance companies. However, I believe that those comments which many of us consider relevant are not sufficient to return the proposal to the petitioner and can be adapted at second reading. So I intercede first of all for the arguments raised by Vice-President Okamura, and secondly, to release the law to second reading and work on it both in committees and then in plenary. I believe it can be concluded satisfactorily. I just have one polite question. When Vice-President Okamura expressed his opinion that it may be about lobbying insurance companies, which he can do, I want to ask him again. Don't you, Mr Vice-President, have a conflict of interest through you? [[Glee in the hall.]] And if so, why didn't you tell us? The Rules of Procedure urge us to do so in such a case. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-017-002.u12	I thank Mr Kalousek. You're right. I'm reporting a conflict of interest. I am also a member of the management of the Association of Czech Travel Agencies. I thought it was a commonplace thing. I've been in this position for ten years. It's a voluntary, unpaid function. Thanks for the heads-up. Do we have anyone for the general debate? We don't have anyone. I am ending the general debate. Do we have any suggestions for final words? Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-017-002.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thought I would no longer perform, but, given the great PR of Mr Okamura, I will have to. The conflict of interest, Mr President, you were obliged to report before your speech, so your 20 minutes where you were not giving the full truth, I believe that they were completely odd, unnecessary, irrelevant. The draft amendment that we are presenting here for the Ministry of Regional Development is a compromise. At this point, I can still say a balanced compromise between the interests of the state, entrepreneurs and consumers. We have already had a debate here in 2015 about insurance companies, I welcome colleagues at gallery, travel agencies etc. I'd hate to get into a situation where everyone here is defending their interests, and when someone is in that conflict of interest, just say it! Even the President, and the Vice-Presidents, all of you who stand here! Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-017-002.u14	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Do we have any other final drafts? We don't, so I'm done with the final words, let's vote on the proposals. I have noted one proposal, it is a proposal to return the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion. So let us vote immediately. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of returning the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion? Who's against turning back? - Doesn't it work for you? The voting device doesn't work. Okay, I declare the vote misguided. We check out, there's a check-out request. Great, let's sign up. We'll wait. Wait, let me just delete one last point of fact. We're all logged in. Initiating vote. Once again, I apologize, it's for returning the motion to the plaintiff. Who's in favor of returning? I'm opening the vote now. Who's against it? The motion was denied. - Your card isn't working. Okay, so I'm gonna check everyone out one more time. Please log in one more time. Mrs Richterová's card didn't work. [[It's not off.]] The vote is not off, so we will end the vote. I will repeat this once again: we are voting on the return of the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion. Initiating vote, now. Who's in favor of returning? Who's against it? Voting number 30. 151 Members are enrolled, 27 against 111 Members, 13 abstained. The motion to return was rejected. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee committee? I don't see another proposal, so we'll take the vote. Who is in favour of the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee committee? Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting time 31. 154 Members registered, for 152, versus zero, two remaining. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Guarantee Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to other committees? He doesn't. So I'm stating that the proposal has been ordered, and I'm ending this press. Thank you, Minister, thank you, rapporteur. We have another press here.
