ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u1	289. Oral inhalation First of all, there are oral interventions on the Prime Minister. Mr. Jiří Valenta was the first to be drawn with his intervention, whom I am asking to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u2	[[The microphone wasn't on.]] Well, thank you again for the floor. I can't even run out of my two minutes. I would just like to say that, as you all know, February 15th and year 15, the government discussed the participation of ministers in the interventions before the Chamber of Deputies and found, respectively. Prime Minister Sobotka found the participation to be ruthless, except for the exceptions. Ever since he said that and he was given 67 percent participation in the intercessions, he's gotten very worse. That means he's only been here twice in about four. That means the percentage went down. So I'd just like to tell him in this way that he'll be better, too, and I'm downloading my interpellation that I don't want to discuss without him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u3	Thank you, colleague. I did not say so, but Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka is excused and will answer in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Another was drawn with his interview by Mr. Ludvík Hovorka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u4	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, because of the problems in France and the UK, the demands on the so-called "Prime Minister" have increased significantly. notified persons and consequently to manufacturers of medical devices. There has been a radical increase in the scope of the applied requirements from the point of view of control by the notified person at the manufacturer, and thus on staffing, carrying out activities, procedures, factual and formal proofing and assessment of the characteristics of the products both on the part of notified persons and manufacturers. As a result, there is a significant extension of delivery deadlines and a substantial increase in the prices of notified persons' services and an increased organisational and economic burden on producers resulting in an extension of the innovation cycle and a reduction in the competitiveness of the whole sector. There are some options to mitigate the following consequences: First, by establishing the obligation of state-established academic and research organisations to cooperate in the conformity assessment process with manufacturers and notified persons, for payment under standard economic and commercial activities. At the level of the MIT and the Institute for Standardisation, prepare a clear, binding interpretation of the requirements for notified persons in order to ensure the long-term stability of the entire system of assessment of medical devices before placing on the market. Today, legislation is interpreted only by means of various best practices or by means of recommending documents from different private entities. Further support from public sources the creation and construction of laboratory and knowledge infrastructure which, in cooperation with academic and research organisations, would provide the necessary professional services for producers and ratified persons. Consider a subsidy programme to promote the marketing of new medical devices and thus mitigate the economic impact on producers. These are the necessary conditions to be made if the state would like to support the Czech manufacturers of medical devices and notified persons who are certification of their products. I dare ask, Prime Minister, for the incorporation of these comments from the producers. [[Time warning]] And because that's the problem of inter-residual, about finding solutions and helping. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u5	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Next time, I'm gonna ask you to do better by following those two minutes. Mr Antonín Seďa will speak next with his intervention. Mr Tomio Okamura will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Prime Minister, your government has discussed a report on the course of the issue of property under the property settlement law with churches and religious societies. This material included hundreds of actions against municipalities, regions, legal and natural persons. The individual contracts provide financial compensation to each church for a total of CZK 59 billion. According to public information, the Catholic orders are the most judged. The adjudicator in lawsuits is an innumerable knightly order of cruisers with a red star leading over 60 lawsuits. But other orders, such as the Knights of the German Order, Maltese knights or Cistercians, have a number of lawsuits. The churches also filed 119 lawsuits against municipalities. Dear Prime Minister, I would like to ask you about the government's procedure to oversee the issue of property. In my opinion, there is a breach of their contractual obligation by the parties to each church because they receive a financial compensation for unissued property, and this property is being sued for. There are only two ways to solve this problem. The first is the termination of the treaty with those churches that violate it. The second option is to reduce the financial compensation if the property is issued in breach of the agreement. I therefore ask, Prime Minister, how will your government react in these cases? Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I am merely pointing out, at the initiative of the Chairman of the TOP 09, that the interpellation to the members of the Government will begin immediately after the applications have been exhausted by interpelling the absent Prime Minister. Mr Okamura, you have two minutes. Mrs Lorencová will be ready if she can hear me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u8	Dear Prime Minister, previous governments have at least tried symbolically to solve the problem of pensions for our seniors. However, your government has failed absolutely and there has been no announced pension reform at all. The inability of your government to deal with anything essential is striking. Promises of mistakes. The seniors continue to live and have no more left in their wallets every month than they did during the previous reigns of Miroslav Kalousek and ODS. And not just that. It is even worse in your government, because you actually have the money, but instead of paying our citizens in need, you pay hundreds of millions of migrants who you permanently accept to us and who have absolutely nothing to do with our Republic. At the same time, you support hundreds of millions and political for immigrant nonprofits. It's a disgusting attitude. Instead of choosing the support of our needy citizens, you chose foreign economic migrants. We all know that the current pension system is unable to finance pensions for the future for all to live with dignity. That is why pension reform is absolutely necessary. When we look the truth in the eye, the solution is not migrants. And in the long run, neither is the solution nor the increase in population, because the age of survival is increasing and, on the other hand, the Republic is not inflatable. The whole system needs to be changed so that the old-age pension becomes a social benefit at a guaranteed decent amount. There's no way to maintain a merit principle, but it needs to be transformed into a standard for those who don't have a chance to save or invest on their salary. Pensions must be increased not by percentages, but by lump sums for those with the lowest pensions, with the fact that only those who actively contributed to the system and those who are truly helpless deserve such pensions. It is not possible to support systemically life-threatening individuals. [[14.40 hours]] Prime Minister, do you consider both your government and the fact that today the situation is the opposite? The percentage valuation of pensions means that the highest pensions increase by thousands and the lowest by just a hundred crowns. Do you have a plan to do that? You haven't made any plans for pension reform in your entire government. You're totally disappointed. We have a solution for our Freedom and Direct Democracy movement, the SPD.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Your intervention will be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I will now ask Mrs Jana Lorencová, who I see coming to present her intervention. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u10	Thank you. As is my custom, I come to the station, take a free step, and the train starts, so I come at the last minute now. I'm sorry. My interpellation to the absent Prime Minister is a reminder of what is still going on down Paskov and OKD. My point is that the Paskov mine was closed on 31 March, and it appears in the media in various variants of what actually happened to the mine. Some say preserved, some say closed, some say ready at any time to open, some say definitely lost. Paskov mine, if I'm not mistaken, and my colleague Hájek will probably confirm it, was the deepest mine in Ostrava. And the point is, all the other mines are definitely lost not only to our own, but to many future generations. There will never be coal in them again. And I want to know if we're following this incredible condition in the Paskov mine. If there has been a preservation, and to make it clear to the Prime Minister whether Paskov's mine has been preserved, that is, at any time ready for opening and mining, or whether it has become the same crime as it did with the other mines in Ostrava. I thank the Prime Minister in advance for his reply, but I insist that it be clear, not about when he will go to the Moon from the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u11	Thank you, Madame. The Prime Minister will reply in writing. Mr Karel Fiedler will speak next with his intervention and Mr Karel Rais will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u12	Yes, the Prime Minister will reply in writing because traditionally and very often he is not present at the interpelations, so this is not news. I have an imaginary remote question for the Prime Minister, who is concerned with the implementation of the government programme, the action plan, and the electoral and electoral promises that are made and are not fulfilled. I was talking about it here on Tuesday at the opening of this meeting. I would like a clear answer if this coalition government - it is not just a ČSSD parliamentary club, but all three that are part of the government coalition - intends to fulfill what it promises in the government programme, in the action plan and in the election promises, and this is the solution to the issue of execution, the implementation of the territoriality of the executives. What the government is proposing or commiting itself in an action plan to present an amendment to the Chamber of Deputies in July this year, we have already said this to each other several times, we all know very well that it is a slap in the water that says directly: we do not want to do it. Since the amendment to come to the House in July will in no way be discussed, and this coalition government makes it clear: we do not intend to keep our promise from the government's statement, we do not intend to keep what we formally stated in the action plan, nor do we intend to keep our pre-election promises concerning the solution to the issue of enforcement and territoriality. Likewise, as social democracy has done with electoral fraud in the matter of restitution to voters. Thank you, and I'm curious to hear the answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Next, Mr Karel Rais, who I do not see in the hall, will speak to the Prime Minister, so I will ask Mrs Věra Kovářová to speak. Mrs Langšádlová will be ready. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u14	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, the news flashed in the media yesterday that the government on the site of the new digitization coordinator confirmed Mr. Ondřej Malý, who replaced Mr. Tomáš Prouza. Let me ask you, in this context, to draw up an overview of Mr Prouza's activities in this area, something like a statement of work, which will show what success Mr Prouza has achieved in his position, what, on the contrary, has failed and what needs to be done and, hopefully, in this area where, as the Czech Republic, we are not, according to international comparisons, any champions will succeed. I realise that there is not much time left for Mr Malý, indeed, for this Chamber of Deputies. Nevertheless, I wonder with what specific plans are entering the office, what timetable is envisaged for their implementation. Prime Minister, I am also asking you to prepare such a foundation. I think that, given the importance of these topics for the future of the Czech Republic, for its competitiveness, it is necessary for more effective parliamentary control that all colleagues and colleagues in the Chamber of Deputies and also in the Senate receive these reports in writing. Dear Prime Minister, can we look forward to such material within a month? Thank you for your answer. In the remaining time, let me ask you one more question. I do not know which position Mr Prouza is leaving in the private sector, but, in the case of the significant and sensitive position he held, I would expect a competitive clause to exist. Can you confirm her existence, and what are her terms? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u15	Thank you, Madame. Your interview will be answered in writing. I give the floor to Mrs Langšádlová. Mr Bendl will be ready. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u16	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, I would like to interpel you on the issue of the spread of alarm messages that occur through mass e-mails containing disinformation or distorted information. These reports began to be distributed in the Czech Republic to a large extent already after the occupation of Crimea by Russia and to this day do not cease and focus on diverse topics. Lately, they are often associated with migration. What is serious, very frequent recipients of these emails are our seniors. They're overwhelmed by these informational bastards. This is one of the e-mails with commentary: "This is Cheb, this week Czech Television and other TVs are silent about it, the government gang won't give a shit, they are immigrants who were expelled from Germany at Cheb Railway Station." And that kind of nonsense. The aim of these massive pressures is to create negative moods and unrest in society and undermine public confidence in democratic institutions. I appreciate the creation of a center for combating terrorism and hybrid threats and monitoring websites and social networks. But I would like to draw attention to the fact that this spread of disinformation also exists in the form of e-mails and that our seniors are very frequent recipients. Many of their family members often turn to me. They're desperate. Dear Prime Minister, in view of the above, I ask you to answer what steps you will take against the dissemination of these misinformation campaigns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u17	Thank you, Madame. Your intervention will be answered in writing. I give the floor to Mr Petr Bendl to present his intervention. Mr. Michal Kučera will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My question is simple. We recently witnessed a change in time in the Czech Republic when we passed from winter to summer time. In this context, I must say that a number of citizens are having enormous problems with this change. This does not apply only to adults, it concerns children and, where appropriate, animals that depend on the activities of people. A number of countries joined this experiment in 1916 and since then the Czech Republic has joined. [[14.50 hours]] Often in the past it was justified that it was for economic, energy and I do not know what reasons. I want to ask you whether this change of time is still beneficial for the Czech Republic. If so, if there is any way of quantifying it, if not, if there is no time for us to stick to only one time so that we do not accept such changes. Alternatively, I would like to hear what we could do to change this matter if it is not beneficial for the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u19	I thank you, Mr Member, and I will ask Mr Michal Kučera to give us his interpelation, and Mr Josef Hájek will prepare himself. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u20	Hello, thank you for your word. Dear Prime Minister, the Czech Export Bank and the Export Guarantee and Insurance Company do not inform enough about supported projects. At this point, it is not known what projects are being considered to be supported in the future. And even a list of already supported projects is not published, as the OECD Recommendation on Common Environmental Approaches and State-supported Export Credits states. Moreover, Czech export agencies are increasingly criticized for unsuccessful projects. The last one is the Turkish power plant Adularya. That is also why the restructuring of these two institutions is now under way. But their final form will probably be decided by the next government. A higher degree of transparency and public involvement is needed to avoid further unsuccessful and environmentally and socially harmful projects. This will make it easier to detect potential negative impacts of projects and, above all, to align export agencies' activities with national and transnational strategies such as the Paris Agreement. Dear Prime Minister, I would like to ask you, therefore, what projects in the field of energy, including coal, gas, etc. EGAP or Czech Export Bank are currently negotiating, or which projects in the two areas will be supported in 2017. Secondly, what energy projects were supported from export financing between 2005 and 2016. Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now, Mr Josef Hájek, Mr. Marek Černoch, will give us his intervention. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u22	Mr President, allow me to interpel the Prime Minister. vážený Prime Minister, the Chamber of Deputies adopted a resolution on 15 March this year stating that the privatisation of OKD was disadvantageous for the citizens of the Czech Republic both in economic and social terms. Thanks to this disadvantageous privatisation, in which you too, Prime Minister, have been greatly involved, particularly the miners, tenants of 44,000 mining flats. Especially the tenants of 44,000 mining flats did not want and do not want to accept that thanks to you, Prime Minister, they were cheated. At the sale of the 46 percent stake of the state in OKD, they were promised that they would be able to buy their apartments at a discounted price. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. Thousands of families today are forced to pay unchristian rent. The state has to pay many families rent in the form of social benefits, and the Bakala crook laughs in their eyes. Is that okay with you, Prime Minister? The Privatisation Agreement for the sale of the minority stake of the State you signed allows the State to withdraw from this Treaty, provided that the European Commission proves that illegal aid has taken place in the privatisation of the OKD. The tenants of OKD flats therefore submitted several complaints to the European Commission. Unfortunately, these complaints, thanks to an opinion written by your friend Pokorný for the Ministry of Finance, were rejected. This year, Arca Capital Group, presented by financier Pavel Krúpa, has also been involved in the issue of disadvantageous or illegal state support in the privatisation of OKD. In this context, Prime Minister, I have two questions for you. First of all, are you willing, Prime Minister, to admit, under the heavy argument, that the privatisation of the 46 percent share of the state in OKD has led to illegal State support? Second: Will the Government of the Czech Republic also join the OKD privatisation complaint submitted by Arca Capital to the European Commission to increase the chances of the Czech Republic to withdraw from this privatisation agreement? [[Voices from the diaper: Time.]] Thank you, 44,000 mining families are waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u23	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Next, Mr Marek Černoch will speak with his intervention, which can then interpelate again. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Prime Minister, your government is preparing a huge toll tender, which is aimed at thwarting the state's investment in the billions of crowns. This is the value of the current toll system, which is owned by the Republic, which is reliable and has so far raised 80 billion crowns, and this year even the operating costs have fallen to 16 percent. You have decided as a government despite Deloitte's expert advice on the future extension of 900 km of lower-class roads. This will not prove to be any extra money, nor will it work as a truck regulation. It will make goods more expensive for citizens in regions where myths do not pay foreign transits, but small supplies supplying between cities. It will also lead to the need to build a new toll for billions of taxpayers instead of using the system already paid for. All because of a mantra technologically neutral tender. Your intention, which you baked outside the forum politically in coalition and without public debate, is loudly protested not only by the association of car carriers, but also by the Confederation of Industry or the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises. The expansion of the myth into the regions is only due to the interest of some commercial companies in the background, which are newly rejected by the authorities themselves through the Association of Regions. Dear Prime Minister, tell the citizens of the regions before the elections that you are going to make their roads more expensive. Why does politics prevail again over expertise, does it not proceed according to the principle of sound economics and you do not declare a tender for the operator of the existing state toll system just as Austria did? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u25	I thank you, Mr Member, and I will now ask you to give your next interview on the financial participation of the Czech Republic in international agencies. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u26	Prime Minister, as early as this morning, I asked if you know of the billions of crowns that run away as payments to international agencies. Recently, an article has been published that maps payments to the Czech Republic in hundreds of international organizations, which are largely in doubt. This is, for example, the agency of the International Organisation of Frankofonia, which includes CZK 300,000, the Pompadour Group (?), where CZK 500 000 goes, the International Whaling Commission, where the Czech Republic pays CZK 722 000, the European Committee for Standardisation CZK 3 571 000 or the European Organization for Astronomical Research in the Southern Hemisphere, where we pay CZK 41 254 815. The Ministry is contributing a large amount to this - The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, a billion and a half, the Ministry of Education, 817 million and so on. That is why I ask you whether it is better to use money which seems to have no justification, for example, for raising pensions, for example for solutions in education, to use them more effectively than they are used in this way. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Your two interventions will be answered in writing. And now I give the floor to Mrs. Věra Kovářová, who will perform her interpelling problems with the Internet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u28	Dear Prime Minister, on Tuesday, I tried to place a point on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies under the title Trouble in drawing European money to expand the high-speed Internet. Unfortunately, in vain. I am reopening this subject, although, given your absence, I am afraid that I will not know much today. Maybe in a month's time, in your written answer. Why I consider this issue important may be unnecessary to explain. But I'd rather do it the same way I do on Tuesday. It is 14 billion crowns that we can use to expand the high-speed Internet. That hasn't been going very well so far. On the part of this government, a number of deadlines were not fulfilled. The last promise was that the challenge would be announced by the end of March this year. This has happened, but it contains errors that will need to be removed. On this issue of the fact that only one provider can receive a subsidy in each defined area, which would record to large companies at the expense of smaller, local ones, Hospodářské noviny and iDnes.cz have already pointed out, which further warn against the real threat of non-exhaustion of funds for the development of the Internet, and thus also rural development. [[15.00 hours]] In the context of the preference of large telecommunications companies, I am wondering whether it is not an inheritance from Minister Mládek, who is still quite recently famous for the friendly approach to these companies. Can you comment on this speculation? I would also like to point out that the call presented concerns CZK 11.5 billion, not the whole of CZK 14 billion. Those 2.5 billion are already written off, so they're not counted, or will they be reprogrammed? Dear Prime Minister, I think that given what is happening with regard to the use of European money on the fast Internet, we cannot pretend that we do not see the problems and therefore ask for clear answers to the questions asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u29	Thank you, Madame. Mr Petr Bendl will be the next to speak with his intervention and Mr Tomio Okamura will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u30	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, the state-owned company of the Forest of the Czech Republic intends to build its new headquarters for approximately CZK 500 million. I want to know how the government feels about this, whether or not you support this matter. Because to build new offices in a situation where the state owns a number of buildings throughout the Czech Republic, which are either used little or wrong or not at all, I consider it a waste of funds. I want to know how your government feels about this, whether you prevent it or are prepared to support this matter. I now consider half a billion to be nonsense about the construction of a new office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Your interpellation will be answered in writing. And now I give the floor to Mr Tomio Okamur, who will first give us an interview on Islamisation and then on lobbying. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u32	Dear Prime Minister, is it true that the Ministry of Education, under the leadership of your ČSSD, launched a pilot project to promote Islam at the primary school in Zlín? I was informed that at the primary school in Zlín-Malenovice, a psychological form of psychomanipulation, aimed at reducing the unconscious fear of one threat by comparing similar well-known facts from the threat known and smaller, i.e. bagatelization, or the threat of zero, i.e. denial, is said to be promoted among pupils in the primary school in Zlín-Malenovice. One of the parents, who was at a parent's meeting in eighth grade at the primary school there, took a picture of an incredible board hanging around the walls of the class. The media has already brought information about this incredible scandal. The school is trying to put an equal between contemporary secularized Christianity and fascist Islam. The case in Zlín is the second in a row when the school promoted Islam among students. Recently, teachers at elementary school in Trutnov taught children Muslim prayer to Alláh. Prime Minister, is Islamisation of Czech children a policy of the entire government or just a strategy of your ČSSD? It is widely known that your government continuously accepts natural migrants from Islamic countries into the Czech Republic and integrates them into our Republic. The citizens of Ústí nad Labem-Předlice, Jaroměř, Brno and Havířov know all about this. And your government sets aside hundreds of millions of crowns per year to receive migrants instead of supporting pensioners or young families with children. After all, the votes of ČSSD members, ANO and KDU-ČSL have also been elected as a well-known supporter of Islam in the Czech Republic, Anna Šabatová. And there's another scandalous government meeting. The Islamic Foundation, based in Prague, has been sending Czech schools with lectures that promote Islam for a long time, and the Foundation has already carried out hundreds of such lectures. And the co-organizer of these lectures is a non-profit organization called the Multicultural Centre, which directly participates in the organisation of these lectures and is directly subsidized by the Ministry of Education, led by the ČSSD, by your government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Please stay by the speaker's counter and give us your second interview on the topic of lobbying. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u34	Dear Prime Minister, for the second time, you haven't answered my question. Do you meet with your classmate and lobbyist Radek Pokorný and consult with him on a government agenda? I ask for a direct answer, without any previous dials.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u35	Thank you for the extreme respect of time. I will ask Mr Petr Bendl, who will also present two of his interventions to the Prime Minister. First, on the topic of investment of the Forests of the Czech Republic. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u36	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, the forests of the Czech Republic intend to invest in Romania and buy forests in this country for hundreds of millions of dollars. I want to know whether or not your government supports this investment. I ask for a clear answer. And if you support it, if you are sure that it is possible to control the efficiency of the funds spent and also the assets that the Czech Republic would possibly obtain in Romania. Thank you for your clear answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Please stick to your position and submit a second interview on the drawing of European funds.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u38	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, I have interrogated your Minister and Deputy Prime Minister of Finance on the ability of the Czech Republic to draw European funds for the period 2014 to 2020. I learned from the reply of Minister Babiš that the Czech Republic from the allocated CZK 585 billion for the period 2014 to 2020 on 17 March this year, i.e. 2017, exhausted 0.84 percent. Your government and your individual ministers often concentrate on criticizing their predecessors for how they misinformed European funds, but I stress the situation that your government is showing, which is, in my view, never been here - 0.84 percent of the spent funds in the middle of the financial period. There are some ministries that didn't even draw from individual operational programs, e.g. The Ministry of Agriculture - according to the Minister of Finance's information, there's a clean zero. Ministry of Transport 0.85%, Ministry of Education 0.2 percent. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is best pumped - 5.67 percent. These are all amounts, I stress, in the middle of the financial period. I want to ask you about the reasons that lead to you not being able to draw money after 3.5 years, so that it is clear that your successors will not have huge problems with how we will be able to obtain and draw on the things that the Czech Republic really needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Your interventions will be answered in writing within 30 days. And I am now warning the House of Deputies that we have exhausted all the applications for oral interpelations to the Prime Minister and will now be followed by oral interpelations to other members of the government. I call on Mr Michal Kučera, the first Member, to give an interview to the Minister of the Environment, Richard Brabec, and thus launch a block of government members' replies to the interpelation of Members. Next will be prepared by Mr. Jiří Štětina. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u40	Hello. Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, you are aware of the decision of the European Commission in the case of abuse of the dominant position of an Austrian authorised packaging company, when the European Commission granted a compensation of EUR 6 million to a competing company. Coincidentally, the same company in the Czech Republic failed under the authorisation administrative procedure, and therefore it is possible to assume that a similar complaint has been lodged with the European Commission or an action before a court in the Czech Republic. Dear Minister, what do you think about the suspicion of abuse of EKO-KOM's monopoly status, and what does your ministry do to avoid the same scenario as in Austria? And I would also like to ask what is your opinion on the current arrangement of the area of packaging backup in the Czech Republic, and do you want to continue to support and maintain a monopoly arrangement? I would also like to remind you that in 2013, the Office for Competition issued an opinion on the functioning of collective systems from the point of view of competition, in which it expressed serious concern about the state of the competitive environment in the field of the provision of collective collection services. At the same time, three specific shortcomings were identified in the opinion, which the Ministry of the Environment should have removed. 1. This is an unnecessary regulation where it is no longer necessary and the needs of the company can fully satisfy functional competition. 2. It is a faulty regulation where, while it is not possible to leave the satisfaction of the social interest exclusively in free competition, there is no objective reason to avoid pluralism and competition between providers and services. 3. Lack of effective supervision of public authorities where price formation occurs. I would like to ask what measures and corrective actions the Ministry of the Environment has taken within three and a half years of issuing the opinion of the ÚOHS and how these deficiencies have been eliminated. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u41	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And the Minister of the Environment, Richard Brabec, has the floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm glad my colleagues and colleagues didn't leave me alone. Well, I guess it'll go faster than that. I don't think I can answer all Mr. Kučera's questions. We agreed here, given that I did not have the full details of the questions that I would complete in writing. I would just like to say a few information about collective systems in the Czech Republic for interest. Currently in the Czech Republic there are collective systems in the field of electrical appliances including lighting. There are even sixteen of them, nine of them dealing only with solar panels. But there are others that deal with a much wider circle of backup electrical appliances in general, which you probably know. A collective system is a system set up by producers which, instead of producers, fulfils the obligations arising from the European directives, where producers are responsible for products placed on the market, even after the end of their service life, according to the relevant Directives. The collective systems therefore serve as a tool for fulfilling the so-called extended responsibility of producers. In addition to these electrical appliances, there are two collective systems in the field of batteries and accumulators, one collective system for tyres and one collective system, which Mr Kučera asks in particular, and these are packaging. So there is one collective system of EKO-KOM. I want to stress that competition is already possible under existing legislation. The legislation therefore allows for the creation of more collective systems in each area where collective fulfilment is set up, and it also shows that in some areas it succeeds. And of course, it always depends on the space created on the market. I would like to stress that the Ministry of the Environment is in no way interested and does not prevent the emergence of new collective systems. However, all systems must comply with the conditions laid down in the legislation. These conditions were not easy, and that is why we prepared an amendment to the law and end-of-life products. The area of the Waste Act thus previously regulated the issue of electrical appliances, including lighting, batteries and accumulators. It is not uniform and it needs to be unified and set the same rules for all collective systems. This was also one of the main objectives of the prepared new law. We discussed the law in the framework of inter-ministerial commentary proceedings and long before that the whole year 2016. At present, it is ready, but as I have already responded to a different interpelation here, we have decided, given the short time remaining until the end of the parliamentary term, that at this time there is no chance for the government and, above all, the House, subsequently the Senate, to approve this law and to complete the legislative process, because it is a very complex law. It's two laws, as a matter of fact. It's a waste law and an end-of-life product law. On the other hand, it has to be said, and I will immediately prove it by stating that in the field of packaging waste, the system is achieving a relatively high rate of recycling. 74 per cent of the packaging placed on the market was recycled in 2015. Even in the very last report, where the good setting up of the system for the recovery and recovery of packaging waste also proves its positive assessment by the European Commission, which states directly in the report on the review of the implementation of environmental legislation published in 2017: "The Czech Republic has a well-functioning programme of extended responsibility for packaging producers, and even exceeds the relevant objectives in this sector." That means it's not like we have a system that doesn't work. And, for the record, citizens have more than 270 thousand at their disposal today. containers for sorted waste in 99 percent of the municipalities of the Czech Republic. But this does not mean that we do not support competition and therefore another system in the area or another new authorised packaging company already under existing legislation, but it will be easier according to new legislation. If that's enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u43	I thank the Minister for respecting the time limit. I ask the honourable Member if he is interested in an additional question, you have the floor, Mr Member. [[Mr Kučera: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u44	Hello. Thank you for your reply to the Minister of the Environment. As we have already agreed in advance, I would ask for written answers to my questions, because I realize that some of them were even deeper. That means that time space of four minutes isn't enough. So if the Minister had answered that in writing. And I hope that it will be more than one sentence, as is customary with his party boss Andrej Babiš, who answers us in one sentence. So I hope the answer will be satisfactory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u45	Thank you. I assume the Minister will no longer respond that this is closed. Allow me, before I give the floor to the next interviewer, to read a few apologies. 6 days. 4. 2017 apologizes for the working reasons of Mrs Martina Berdychová from the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Jan zahradník excuses his absence from this afternoon's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies without giving reasons, and further apologizes Mr Simeon Karamazov on Thursday 6. 4. from the afternoon meeting and on Friday 7. 4. 2017 for personal reasons. Thank you. Mr. Jiří Štětina will continue to speak with his intervention. She's going to interpel Mrs. Secretary Karla Šlechtová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u46	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary. In connection with the criminal announcements to the Czech Sports Office of CzechTourism on the basis of the findings of the NKU or other entities that are being investigated by the Police of the Czech Republic, I would like to ask you two questions. First, which all entities registered in the Czech Republic received funds, to what amount and from which providers through CzechTourism during the period from 1. 1. 2013 to the present day? The second question, with which all entities registered in the Czech Republic had valid contracts for promotion, advertising, PR and so on, for the period from 1. 1. 2013 to the present day. Because the Czech Sports Headquarters (!) CzechTourism's activity was to commit these fundamental errors on the basis of the SAO's audit conclusions from the 1431 audit action: firstly, doubts about the economical spending of funds. Secondly, the CzechTourism agency did not consistently use all legal means in applying and defending the state's rights as its owner and did not use the state's assets effectively and economically. Thirdly, the CzechTourism agency violated the law on the property of the Czech Republic and the law on budgetary rules. Fourth, it did not award public contracts on the basis of a contract procedure pursuant to Law No 137 of 2006 or split the subject matter of the contract. Fifthly, the law on financial control has not been sufficiently respected, which demonstrates a large number of identified shortcomings. The facts found indicate that CzechTourism has committed an infringement of budgetary discipline in eight cases in the total financial volume up to 19 million. 529 thousand. And some change. Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u47	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Next, Mr. Zlatuška, who I do not see in the hall, was drawn in order. Unfortunately, he's not present. I therefore give the floor to Mr Koníček, who will speak to the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec, and Mr Petr Bendl will prepare himself. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u48	vážený Minister, in January of this year, at the city office in Uherské Hradiště, a control was carried out by the Ministry of Environment's top water management. In the audit it was stated that - I quote: "The ministry sees the definite problem in a rather lax approach of the water supply manager and the protection zones to the complex issue of protection of the quality and yield of groundwater and surface waters in the territory, ensuring the elimination of unauthorised inputs and entrances into these zones.' End of quote. [[15.20 hours]] What will you do with this lax approach, Minister? What measures will the Ministry take towards the water resource administrator? There is also a large number of black buildings in the water supply protection zone. The Water Authority has issued several dissenting binding opinions on the procedure for additional building permits. And nothing happened. The construction office isn't working. How will you proceed as an office to protect water resources in the case of these black buildings? Both the construction office in Uherské Ostroh and the regional office in Zlín. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u49	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'll ask the Minister to respond. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u50	Thank you for the floor. Welcome, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek. I'm no longer afraid in that line. [[I'm leaving now!]] So I jinxed it a little bit. The Czech environmental inspection carried out on the basis of Mr Kolář's initiative, and Mr Kolář has actually sent us a number of suggestions, is very active, as you said, has not discovered a direct threat to the water supply. We have just carried out a top water management, control of the performance of the state administration, at the Municipal Authority in Uherské Hradiště (Uherské Hradiště). The protocol was provided to Mr Kolář following a request pursuant to the Act of 106/1999 Coll., on free access to information. I would like to emphasise a few things. Firstly, the performance of the state administration at the Uherské hradiště Municipal Authority, the Department of Water and Environment, was carried out at a very good legal and professional level according to this audit. The control of performance was focused mainly on the application of the Water Act, the Administrative Code and the Act on Infractions. The fact that this actually took place at a good level also shows that the statistics issued in respect of offences for breach of entry or entry into the protection zones of water resources, issued non-conformity binding opinions on authorisation procedures as well as additional permits for buildings and buildings in these zones, incentives to review the decision of the building authority and, last but not least, water surveillance at the water supply manager. Therefore, Mr Kolář's opinion cannot be confirmed that the Water Authority is inactive. The Ministry rather sees the problem in the position of the administrator of protection zones, Slovak waterworks and sewers, a. s., in the access of mining organisation and district mining office as well as in the activities of the general construction office. We're going to challenge the building office's procedure with a complaint to the Ministry of Regional Development, which I think has already happened, according to my information. I can now give you the very last piece of information. In addition, Mr Kolář's last e-mail mentioned the issue of illegal disposal of building waste. This is news, which has not yet appeared and we have handed the matter over to investigate the Czech Environmental Inspection. There was also a request for criminal liability of specific employees of the Municipal Authority in Uherské Hradiště. But here we have to say that the Ministry has found no reason to file a criminal complaint. But of course, if Mr Kolář has the opinion that the grounds for prosecution are given, he can naturally file a criminal complaint himself. The Ministry will use its legal options to remedy the situation, submit a complaint, which has already happened, to review the procedure of the relevant building office and, if necessary, the cancellation procedure will insist on fulfilling the conditions of reclamation. However, there is no other way to deal with the wrong procedure of the Slovak taps and sewers, the Mining Authority and the Building Office, because we are not competent to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u51	Thank you, Minister. I ask whether the Member is interested in an additional question. He does. So you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u52	Not a follow-up question, just a statement. Yes, Minister. Since the year was controlled up to 2016, the failure of the Office could not be detected in the previous years. And I would like to thank you for, at least now, your office has begun to do something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u53	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Petr Bendl will be intersecting the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec with his interpelling. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, I didn't get an answer to the water bill here, so I'm gonna try to use the space of interpelation. In the Law on Waters you try to remove the exception from the obligation to clean so-called. rainwater and I must remind you that the Czech Republic has population, I will say it exactly, or the proportion of residents living in houses connected to the classical sewer system is only 82.8%. And there are two regions that are worse off, or less than 70 percent of the population living in those regions is connected to a classic sewer system. At the moment, with one call, one change in the sentence removes this exception, this decision will essentially affect the majority of the population living in the Czech Republic. This obligation is likely to be reflected in the need for municipalities to start investing in new treatment plants, increasing capacity, or building new sewage treatment plants, which are not yet designed to do so by the amount of water. It's gonna be a huge investment. And the change is really big. I want to know if there is any economic impact analysis, as this will manifest itself in the obligation to invest. And because logically, when it's the responsibility of the municipality or the county to make such an investment, it's going to project it into the price of an aqueous, coiled or in the price of water in general, and it's going to be paid by people. So I want to know if you are aware of how much this will mean and whether you have such an analysis done, because it is really almost for a very important debate about what it will actually be in the budgets of individual families and companies to do behind the brycules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u55	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I give the word to the Minister of the Environment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u56	Thank you for asking. I forgot to thank my previous colleagues for the questions, so I thank them back for their questions. We did not understand each other yesterday, my colleague, by your means, Mr President, and I apologise for that. I have responded to another matter. But I think I can calm you down, and I'm sure this debate will definitely continue. After all, the deadline for committee discussions has not been shortened, so there will be two months of time and we will definitely get back to that. I would like to point out that I have had it processed by my colleagues that the current water law and its amendment do not deal with the purification of precipitation waters at all. Repeal of Article 38 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union 2 which, therefore, is no longer considered as waste water from rain separators, is related to the excesses of this provision, since the precipitation water can only be discharged from a separate precipitation sewerage in which no waste water is flowing. Therefore, there is no need to emphasise this further. Sprinkler waters are considered surface waters according to the Water Act, therefore their discharge is not subject to an obligation to permit or set limits, so there are no penalties for non-compliance with these limits. The possibilities of the disposal of precipitation waters remain according to the construction and water law of their filling, i.e. accumulation at the point of origin, clearly preferred method also in terms of drought. In addition, the removal of a separate collision channel into the flow without any restrictions and the need for permission to discharge them. The method is fully suitable for the quality of water in the flow, and, if not otherwise, discharge into a single sewerage, however, the harmless water becomes waste water, which then needs to be cleaned. On the contrary, only waste water is present in the single sewage system, which is a mixture of sewage and precipitation water, and these waters should be completely cleaned at the sewage treatment plant in accordance with Directive 91/271/EEC. The exception can be allowed in strong collisions, where the waste water in the single sewage is heavily diluted by precipitation water and can be defined under conditions such as: Dilution ratio, released by a rain relief device without cleaning directly into the flow. These conditions should be set up and not yet within the framework of the amendment of the implementing decree for the Water and Sewerage Act, which is within the competence of the Ministry of Agriculture. [[15.30 hours]] Because lightened, i.e. uncleaned waste water has a strong negative effect on the flow, it is necessary to minimise the discharge of these waters, by limiting the entry of precipitation waters into the sewerage, which is precisely ensured by separate sewage sewers, by disconnecting the precipitation waters and their disposal by flooding, accumulation, etc. or by accumulation of waste water in delays from which waste water is collected and purified during the rainless period. I would like to conclude by pointing out that there were no sanctions for the discharge of precipitation waters in the flow, there would be no threats, nor would they be threatening in connection with the amendment to the Water Act. Waste water discharges are at risk and will continue to be subject to sanctions if waste water is discharged into the stream without or contrary to the discharge permit, e.g. failure to comply with the limits, but that is already the current state. So I really want to assure you that this novel isn't actually about to make major changes. And what we didn't really understand yesterday, which I'm sorry about. I really thought of it more as a matter of disposal of waste water from the balancing pits. And there indeed the proposed changes specify the current situation, when even today the water law requires safe disposal of the contents of the pits, but the amendment already states that the disposal must take place by balancing the sewage treatment plant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u57	Thank you, Minister. The Member is interested in additional speeches. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u58	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I take it as an assurance that no significant responsibilities for individual cities and municipalities are thereby created, that only discharges of water from the pits and their subsequent cleaning are specified. I understand that. That's about right. In that respect, I have nothing to comment on. We're probably going to go through that on the agricultural committee, and you're going to be on the environmental committee, which I'm not a member of. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u59	Thank you. Now allow me to read the apology of Minister Daniel Herman, who apologizes for the sitting of the Chamber of Deputies from 14.30 to the end of the working day for personal reasons, and the apology of Mr Stanislav Berkovec, who apologizes for today's meeting from 16 a.m. to the end of the working day for working reasons. And I will now ask that Mrs Věra Kovářová speak with her intervention, Mrs Pěnčíková will prepare herself. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u60	Dear Minister, as you may know, on Tuesday I tried to place a point on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies under the name Trouble in drawing European money to expand the high-speed Internet. Unfortunately, in vain. Six votes missing to be included. I continue to consider the subject important, so let me ask you the following questions. First of all, I would like to draw attention to the problem of the fact that, in each defined area, only one provider can receive a subsidy under the current rules, which would record to large companies at the expense of smaller, local ones. This has already been brought to the attention of some media, which further warn against the real threat of not spending money on Internet development, and, after all, also rural development. In the context of the preference of large telecommunications companies, by the way, I am wondering whether this is perhaps not an unfortunate inheritance from Minister Mládek, who has recently been known to be friendly to these companies. Can you comment on this speculation? And how do you feel about this discriminatory provision? In connection with the mention of the threat of non-exhaustment of the total allocation, I would like to underline that the call in question concerns 11.5 billion. Crowns, not all 14 billion. You're 2.5 billion. Are they written off yet? So they're not expected to expand the high-speed Internet? Or will there be an effort to reprogram them? Dear Minister, thank you for answering these questions and I believe that the effective use of European money to expand the high-speed Internet will become your priority, unlike your predecessor. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u61	Thank you, Madame. Your interpelation will be answered in writing. And now I give the floor to Mrs Pěnčíková, who will interpel the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u62	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Minister, I'm sure you know what my interpellation is about. I want to ask about two Kroměříž companies. It is the Masna Godfather and the NAVOS company, in connection with the violation of the Air Protection Act on their part, because they do not have the necessary permission to operate. At the moment, it is quite a hot topic among the inhabitants of Kroměříž, especially those who live near these companies. And I have to admit, I'm surprised that while the environmental inspection was imposed on NAVOS, your ministry canceled it with the argument that it's under-proven, and that's how it's all closed down. Therefore, Minister, I ask you, what was the lack of justification for the fine? And as for the piece next to the standing massage of the Godfather, the production of the meat plant consists of 17 separate smokehouses, none of which exceed the stated design capacity of a thousand kilograms, but your spokesperson said - and I quote from the press: "Generally, in similar cases, the counting rule should be applied. " And that's how I found it in the Ministry's methodical instructions. Therefore, I ask you why this general calculation rule was not applied to the Masna Godfather company.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u63	Thank you, Madame. And now we will hear the answer of the Minister of the Environment, Richard Brabec. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u64	Thank you for the floor, and thank you for the question. I'd be happy to answer that, my colleague. First, to NAVOS. A fine of 300 thousand. The Czech environmental inspection was imposed here for the fact that the company operated part of its stationary resources in the opinion of the Czech environmental inspection without permission to operate. However, as early as 2013, the Regional Authority of the Zlín Region drew attention to this situation. The company therefore pointed out that it would not apply the so-called "sources'. a calculation rule that would otherwise mean to the company that it had to obtain a permit to operate, and it proved it by various opinions. The Regional Authority of the Zlín Region as well as the Czech Environmental Inspection Authority, and this is proven, did not dispute the opinion of NAVOS in any way. I think that was in 2013. In 2014, the Czech environmental inspection changed its mind and fined NAVOS. The above procedure had to be done by the Ministry of the Environment - and since we will talk about this later on in another case, I would point out, not the Ministry of the Environment as a Ministry in Prague, but so called. state administration authority, which is a two-stage authority, when the Czech Inspection is a decision-making body in the first instance and so-called. The department of administration of the Ministry, in this case the regional post, is therefore the second instance, which decides completely independently, and of course his decision is judicially reviewed. So this, what I said, is the fact that the company has shown that it has alerted the Regional Authority and the Czech Environmental Inspection Authority that it does not have this permit, and both institutions, both the Regional Authority and the Czech Environmental Inspection Authority, have actually agreed that the permit is not needed and consequently the Czech Inspection has changed its mind. All of this was taken into account by the public administration authority and then taken into account when deciding on the appeal of the company against the fine granted by the Czech environmental inspection. Thus, the Ministry, the authority of the administration, took the following into account in the appeal proceedings: the company requested permission for the operation of resources by the competent authority of air protection, the Regional Authority of the Zlín Region. In the application for authorisation, it duly indicated and described the various sources. In the course of this procedure, the Czech Inspectorate was also expressing itself. Neither the regional authority nor the inspection in the course of the procedure contested that it was not the listed sources, or that it was not the listed sources. the operation of resources was authorised, and none of the competent authorities argued that the resources were so called. the resources listed. The company was therefore in good faith to operate the source legally, and the Ministry of the Environment therefore annulled the inspection decision and stopped the proceeding. [[15.40 hours]] With regard to the case of the Mass Godfather, here, and I need to correct you a little bit, the Czech environmental inspection asked the Ministry of the Environment for an opinion on how to proceed in the case of the inclusion of resources among listed stationary sources according to the Act on Air Protection. The Ministry of the Environment recommended, in accordance with the methodology of the Ministry of the Environment, to add up the individual resources, i.e. to apply the calculation rule. At the same time, however, the methodology states that the technical possibilities, the specific purpose, in particular the nature of production and the flexibility of production in terms of the use of total capacity and the impact on air need to be taken into account. This must be assessed individually by the regional authority on a case-by-case basis and should also be done by the expert expert. Anyone can read the methodological instruction on the website of the Ministry of Environment. It's public. In accordance with the methodology and on the basis of expert opinions, the Czech inspection concluded that the individual resources cannot be counted and the calculation rule in the case of the operation of the Godfather mass can not be applied. For this reason, she made the decision she made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u65	Thank you. Mrs Pěnčíková will speak for the completion. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u66	Thank you for your answer. But you must know, Minister, I'm sure it won't be enough. Anyway, one last question today, because I'm sure I'll ask you again. If there was another owner, would the inspection come to the same conclusion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u67	The Minister will respond. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u68	I already told you. Since there will still be a question about Prechez from my colleague Sed, I have spoken about it somewhere, and I hope that my colleagues and colleagues already know me enough that they will believe me. I said - I would have to be a complete lunatic, and I am not, in a situation where everyone knows that NAVOS, KMOTR belong to Agrofert and that Mr Babiš was the owner of Agrofert, did any action related to influencing the decision. You know what the saddest part is? That in the Czech Republic, and even journalists are asking about it, and I find that the most shocking thing is that someone doubts that the minister would not interfere with it either. It's like it's normal to interfere before. I say, for God's sake, there are first-instance and second-instance organs here. I will also talk about this in the next interpellation, how many hundreds of decisions the second-instance body will actually cancel or significantly reduce the fine. I am, and I can swear it, he had no idea that any decision was made around NAVOS, around Kmotr, because the decision is being inspected by hundreds. Hundreds really, and hundreds of you OVS, too. Believe me, no one's talking to these people at all. These people are completely independent and their decision is judicially reviewed. So, yes, I answer your question clearly: if anyone were the owner, the decision is exactly the same. This decision is made by specific officials, who can then be drawn up to explain somewhere in a judicial review how they have come to this decision.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u69	Your time. You've kept it almost exactly. Thank you, Minister. Now let me read the apology of Mrs Věra Kovářová, who apologizes for today's negotiations from 15.45 to the end for work reasons. Mr. Ludvík Hovorka, Mr. Jiří Havlíček, will intersect next with his intervention. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u70	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, after there have been problems throughout Europe with breast implants from France, there has been a significant tightening of European legislation. There has also been an increase in the requirements for notified persons who carry out certification of medical devices. Their number has decreased from five to two in the Czech Republic. There are far more demanding requirements for infrastructure, for the number of internal and external collaborators with high classification and qualifications. The lack of clarity and permanent change in the interpretation of the requirements of the regulations, when they are simultaneously burdened with frequent supervisory performance by the authorities, which removes a significant part of their capacity. This led to an extension of the assessment process and increased costs were reflected in the prices for the performance performed. This is reflected in the final prices of products and reduces the competitiveness of Czech companies. There are certain possibilities to mitigate the consequences by establishing, on the one hand, the obligations of the State-established academic and research organisations to cooperate in the conformity assessment process with manufacturers and notified persons; at the level of the MIT and the Institute for Standardisation, to develop a clear, binding interpretation of the requirements for notified persons, thereby ensuring the long-term stability of the entire system of assessment of medical devices before placing on the market; to support from public sources the creation and construction of laboratory and knowledge infrastructure which, in cooperation with academic and research organisations, would provide the necessary professional services for manufacturers and notified persons, at the same time dedicated to research, development and innovation of procedures for the verification of clinical methods and medical devices. This would lead to a reduction in the cost of services still available only abroad, thereby supporting exports outside the EU. Furthermore, consider a subsidy programme to promote the marketing of new medical devices, thus reducing the economic impact on manufacturers, for example, by means of innovative vouchers. [[Attention on time.]] These are possible suggestions for solutions. Minister, I believe you will devote your energy to solving this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u71	Thank you, too. Mr Vít Kaňkovský will speak with the next interview. Interpelation is directed at Minister Miloslav Ludvík. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u72	Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues and colleagues. Dear Minister, the discussion of the mandatory electronic recipe has once again flared up with the professional public in recent weeks. It is generally known that after a three-year grace period, date 1 is approaching. 1. 2018, when the use of electronic recipe will be mandatory. I note that I am not one of the opponents of the electronization of health care. Yet it is not possible to see a certain tension between doctors and I have to say hospitals, because the introduction of an electronic recipe has its risks and is mainly accompanied by costs, not only on hardware and software equipment, but in hospitals it is also the demands of personnel. Just an idea from practice. I'm the head of a mid-sized hospital with 550 beds and over a thousand employees. In this hospital we work as doctors on more than 450 PC stations. There's barely a third of them online. Our hospital is preparing for a mandatory electronic recipe responsibly, and I believe we can make it, but it's obvious that it won't be free, and it won't even go without personnel claims. It is also not possible to see a group of private doctors, especially those at the end of their careers who do not work with PCs. Whether you like it or not, a group of doctors simply don't use a computer in their office. And it bothers me that from some sides there is an attack on these doctors that they are, in general, backwards or similar statements. In the Czech Republic, we are dealing with an increasing staff deficit both in hospitals and in the private sector, especially in the case of practitioners. I therefore consider it risky that we mitigate the problems surrounding the mandatory electronic recipe. I therefore ask you, Minister, what have you done in practice in addition to the promise of a small payment valuation for the introduction of an electronic recipe? What kind of assistance did you offer to medical institutions, both hospital and private? And how did you use the three-year delay of legal duty in this regard?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u73	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Your interpelation will be answered in writing. Next in line was Mrs Anna Putnová's interview with the Minister of Education, but I do not see her in the hall at the moment, so her application is forfeit. Next up, Mrs Markéta Wernerová will intersect the Minister of Justice in the case of sitting in court. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u74	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Dear Minister, I am interrogating you on the amount of flat-rate compensation for the sitting courts that I have been alerted to when I meet with the citizens in my constituency. The flat-rate compensation is covered by Decree No.42/1992 and is symbolic of CZK 150 for the entire day of performance. Adjourns are involved in the enforcement of justice in our country, the district courts are elected by the municipal council, in the case of regional council courts. The co-chairs shall participate in mine. conduct in criminal proceedings before first-degree courts for which the lower limit of the penalty rate is five years and above. These are complex cases whose trial sometimes lasts several weeks, and they therefore have to participate in the whole hearing. I believe that the amount of flat-rate compensation provided for more than a quarter of a century by the old legislation is undignified and does not in any way appreciate the responsible and demanding work that seniors mostly do for society. I am aware that you have already started to address this issue after taking up office in 2015, in connection with the forthcoming reform steps in justice. I therefore ask what condition these changes are in after two years. Will there finally be a change, an increase or a reduction or a change in the number of such alternates or a change in that remuneration? Dear Minister, thank you in advance for your reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u75	Thank you for respecting the time limit of the Member, and now the Minister of Justice will speak with the reply. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u76	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like, first of all, to emphasise what you have used for the word, namely that the reward is symbolic. It's symbolic, it's supposed to remain symbolic. The role of the second chair is the role of the so-called. a lay element in justice, the purpose of which is not to create any cabinet justice separated from the public's imagination, namely in criminal matters. We therefore see the role of a sitting person as an honorable function, as something that citizens should do because they feel that they feel that they are citizens because they want to participate in governance and not to be motivated by money. For that, we have professional judges who are paid for their duties. After all, this is an approach that we are far from having, at random, in England, in America, in France, etc. I do not mean that the reward should remain the 150 crowns forever, and at the same time I do not mean that we would not have a problem in this area. We have a problem, it turns out there's very little interest in the role. It's a problem that we want to solve, but we're afraid that the solution isn't about making it a well-paid role, because we don't really want people like that again. We really want people there who care, who go there for that thing, not for the money. When you ask us where we have progressed, I must admit that we have not made much progress in this, because we have opened this issue with justice, with the Presidents of the courts at various meetings repeatedly, we have presented some of our proposals, analyses and unfortunately it has turned out that while the entire justice system agrees that we have a problem in this area, so on which direction to go at all in its resolution, there is therefore no elementary consensus and we have not yet found it. For your information, it's from the opinion that the institute should actually be abolished, until we should introduce a jury justice in criminal matters. So we continue to take this as a task, we take it as an unfulfilled task, and it is, of course, something where, perhaps, by the end of the term, we will be able to do at least a little more clearly on the path we would like to take. But it is clear that this will require legislative changes, and they will certainly not be able to make it through this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u77	Thank you, Minister. I ask the honourable Member if he is interested in the performance. So the Member has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u78	Thank you. Minister, I also realise that this issue is not entirely simple, but we must realise that it is a rather complex case that is decided by the sitting parties together with the judge. The judge is often overvoted on the matter, so it is important to know that although it is a voice from the people, he nevertheless deals with expert questions and votes expertly. These negotiations are held for days and I think that their conditions are simply not dignified. I'm not saying overpay them, but we should at least consider establishing some dignity. I personally spoke with a lady who has completed her legal education, is at a retirement age, and therefore is relatively well-founded in these matters and knew what I was talking about. I was questioning the extent to which this is an honorable function and to what extent we must also consider the dignity of these people, because they are doing work for this state. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Thank you for the heads-up. [[President: It was a pleasure to warn you.]] This is merely a change in the decree, so I think it is in the Ministry's power to do this work by the end of the term of office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u79	Thank you, too. Is the Minister interested in a reaction? Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u80	I really think, although basically we agree, but we don't agree, nor do I think it would be right for people with legal education to do so. They're supposed to be judge professionals. If they want to, they have to pass the necessary tests, etc. And that's what the salary is for. This is really supposed to be the non-lawyers who are supposed to bring the eyes of the normal person. I can afford to say that as a lawyer. And if that function were more attractive in terms of reputation, it's often the things that everyone is watching on the online transmissions, on Lightning and God knows where, but no one thinks he's going to sit there like the co-chair. So we think that really the path is more of a promotion of this. I'm not saying, hand in hand, we shouldn't raise the reward or the replacement. I would call it a replacement, not a reward, just on purpose. But I'm sure it won't solve anything in itself. That would just be a gesture, just throwing money away.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u81	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Marta Semelová will be the next to speak with her intervention. She will interpel the Minister for Regional Development Karla Šlechtová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u82	Thank you. Madam absent Minister, I was approached by representatives of the Association of Guides asking for a solution to the problem related to the 2008 Trade Act amendment. This amendment transferred tourist guide activities from a free trade which does not require proof of professional or other competence. There is no need to demonstrate the degree of education achieved, the composition of a professional examination or the necessary language skills, as was the case in the past. In tourist-attractive locations including urban conservation and sites registered by UNESCO on the list of world cultural and natural heritage, this activity is carried out by amateurs without the necessary knowledge. It is a foreigner residing in the Czech Republic on the basis of a tourist visa, who have no idea about our historical, cultural or natural realities, but also about organized companies that offer guideship as a free service for tips. According to their own data, they have already carried out more than five million tourists in Prague. [[16.00 hours]] In addition, professional guides who pay taxes and premiums from their income can hardly compete with them. Jobs are at risk, qualified graduates of schools focused on tourism are hard to find employment, a system of professional guide education is disrupted. It complicates effective control, makes it impossible to adjust the conditions for the provision of these services in its territory or to lay down requirements for the professional competence of guides. The government approved the concept of state tourism policy in the Czech Republic for the period 2014-2020, in which the definition of tourism guide activity is included, but nothing is happening yet. How will you deal with this situation? I just want to say thank you for yesterday's thanks to the Members around the Construction Act. Unfortunately, today we cannot thank for the absence of ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u83	Thank you, Madame. Your interpellation will be done in writing. I am now giving the floor to Mr Antonín Seďa, who will lecture on the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u84	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, tourism on the Bata Canal in the Zlín Region is developing more and more, which is certainly a positive report. The negative is that your ministry's decision has put a stop to the planned construction of a canal on a white lake near the city of Otrokovice. I remind you that last year a zoning decision was to be issued and this year a building permit. Everything is moving further now, and this canal would finally allow navigability until Kroměříž. Dear Minister, I would like to ask what condition the new environmental impact management, or EIA, is in and in what horizon you expect this construction to be authorised. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u85	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And the Minister of the Environment will give his answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u86	Thank you for the floor, thank you for the question. Dear Member, just maybe even for the rest of us, completely short of history, because it's not a new event, as you know. The swimming chamber on the Bělov Jeze - actually the EIA process was completed in 2010, so the implementation of the project from the point of view of the EIA did not prevent anything at that time and in the following months or years a follow-up procedure could be carried out, and the intention could therefore be implemented today. In fact, thanks to the amendment to the Environmental Impact Assessment Act, - or even before the amendment, some conditions of the EIA opinion could not be fulfilled. The EIA was not binding. However, the follow-up procedure has not been completed until then, in the meantime, the Environmental Impact Assessment Act has been amended and the EIA opinion can no longer be circumvented. At the request of the investor, the Ministry of the Environment, the Directorate of Waterways of the Czech Republic, issued a binding opinion on the EIA opinion in November 2015 and so-called binding most of the original conditions arising from the EIA opinion. However, the Directorate of Waterways disagreed with some, this time already binding conditions, virtually. declared them to be in proportion to the costs to be unrealistic. The conditions of the binding opinion were therefore not fulfilled and the territorial procedure was therefore terminated by the building authority in accordance with the administrative rules. Even here, if these conditions were met by the notifier, the plan could already be implemented. But now the current one, and I think you'll be pleased with that, and the future in the near future. The Directorate of Waterways therefore challenged the binding position of the Ministry of the Environment. In the course of the review, I canceled the binding position of the Ministry of the Environment in order to justify why our expert body continues to insist on its original conditions. At present, the Ministry's technical service examines all the documents relating to the contested conditions and completes the justification for the newly prepared binding opinion in such a way as to justify sufficient retention or, on the contrary, the removal of the contested conditions. According to the latest information I have found today, a new binding opinion will be issued by the Ministry in the order of days, the assumption is at the beginning of next week, and consequently the Directorate of Waterways will be able to continue the follow-up proceedings for the project in question, whose course goes beyond the competence of the Ministry of Environment and we are not able to predict it completely in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u87	Thank you, Minister. Thank you twice, because I'm from Kroměříž. And the Member still has room for an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u88	Thank you, Minister. I hope that this will be a positive report and that the expert body will issue a binding opinion that can be met, because the allegedly problematic condition is the problematic water flow in the Shiroka stream due to the fish, because the stream is practically dry, and I would like to remind you that this condition hinders the implementation of the action for 300 miles. CZK, whose investor, as you rightly said, is the Directorate of Waterways of the Czech Republic, and at the same time it is a priority construction of the generally beneficial company Baťa channel. According to my information, the water in the creek was the last time during the floods in 1997, and the unfinished condition of the Broad Creek is virtually impossible to meet. I hope that the new marina will be built later in Kromeriz. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u89	Thank you, this subject has been closed, the Minister will no longer speak. I therefore give the floor to Mr Marek Černoch, who will speak with his intervention on the Minister of Transport of Mr Dan Ťok on tolls in the Czech Republic. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u90	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President, Minister, the government is preparing a giant toll tender for the toll system for the lower class roads. Not only will the cost of a billion-dollar investment in the current system be undermined, but above all this system will bring a price increase for regional carriers, driving heavy transport to roads III. classes. This is opposed not only by road transporters, the Association of Industry, the captains through the Association of Regions, but also by citizens. You yourself have said, Minister, that you do not agree with this, but it is a political agreement. Do you really want to promote the system for another billions, despite the negative attitude of not only professional organisations but also citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u91	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and the Minister has the floor to deliver Dan Ťok.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u92	Mr Vice-President, honourable Member, honourable Members. I, Mr Blackman through Mr President, would like to correct what you said here a little bit. Firstly, the Ministry of Transport does not intend to expand the existing toll on roads II. and III. classes, although we have been repeatedly called upon to do so. What the Ministry of Transport has done is, I would say, an agreement that has found its origin in the government and in agreements between coalition transport experts, when in the Government's resolution we agreed that there is a requirement to extend the toll to the roads of the 1st class. I would like to say that we already have about 250 kilometers of 1st class roads under the myth today, so this extension of another 900 kilometers, so that technological neutrality is secured, because this is a matter that I was given as Minister of Transport. A resolution was adopted in which an extension of 850-900 to 3,000 kilometres was to be made. And it was said that a specific number would be determined by a consultant. My advisor and I counted this value together, and the counselor said that if we spread the toll to another 900 kilometers of 1st-class roads, then on these 1st-class roads, the selection of myths will essentially be 80 percent of today's choice of myths that are selected on the first-class roads. So it's not something that's demoting the system. The system will keep collecting more money, and as we've analyzed it, there shouldn't be what the County Association warns that it's gonna drive those 900 kilometers of trucking into twos and threes. I don't think so. If there's a threat, it's possible to place a transit ban on those twos and threes where there's a risk of anything going around, and that's a pretty good thing to look after. [[16.10 hours]] You're right about one thing that when we started this professional debate, my opinion, as well as the opinion of the movement that I represent in the Ministry, was that the myth is tax, and we don't want to raise taxes. But in order to keep the myth going, to unblock the situation at all, it's kind of an agreement where I think a demonstration that the deal is good, or that it's not as bad as it's depicted, is that all those who seek the myth, or the two main ones who seek the myth, from one side of the Kapsch, from the other side of Skytoll, none of them are completely comfortable with it. Looks like we made a good choice. The fact that ČESMADO is protesting this is understandable because it has no interest in paying the myth that others are protesting it... Well, somebody just started a pretty good information campaign here. I just want to say that even though it's not my choice, or it wouldn't be my choice if I were a private person to decide that. However, I, as Minister of Government, am bound by the Government's resolution and that was the maximum we were able to achieve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u93	Thank you, Minister. And with an additional question from the Member.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u94	Minister, thank you for your answer. Of course, I'm not under the influence of anyone, any information. It's more like from a peasant's point of view and because I'm interested in transport. I think that even though, of course, there is some agreement on the government, there is some coalition agreement that against it, as I have learned, there have been negative opinions, expert opinions, and that it would be good before something like this ever happens, before something like this starts, rather, to start discussions, analyses, debates with these people, whether it brings something positive or not. So the supplementary question is whether you want some round tables to be created, some analysis to make it clear whether it's for the benefit or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u95	Thank you, too. And the Minister will still respond. You have a choice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u96	Thank you for the additional question. I wouldn't dare accuse or suspect you have any lobbyist pressure. No way. I know that's a question that's very much debated. But what I have to say here is that now a big debate about whether or not the 900 km is optimal can't be done. Yes, there is an analysis that if we wanted to maximize the myth yield, it would pay off somewhere around 340 most. Then there's some 560 where it's like it's equivalent to today. And those 900s are in 80 percent of today's number one pick. So it's still a contribution. It's nothing to pay or anything to be negative. Sometimes some describe it as how everything gets expensive, everything gets bad. I don't think so. I wouldn't be that skeptical. But only in the short time. We can even discuss it. I know that Mr. President of ODS Stanjura and I have agreed that there will be some debate about the further development of the myth here at the Chamber of Deputies in two months, which I promised to come up with. But, you know, given the Public Procurement Act and the next steps, we don't have much room today. We're supposed to write the contest in the middle of this year. And today, to start debating whether the kilometres are good or bad, it's basically academically possible, but it can't possibly have a practical effect. So I'm ready to discuss it. I'm prepared to defend the procedure, but that we could change the assignment, so we would have to accept, of course, the idea that there will be another few years of extra Kapsch, because we won't write it down and it won't be competitive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u97	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Mr Karel Šidlo will be the next to speak with his intervention. He will also interpel the Minister of Transport. She will prepare to interpel Mrs Olga Havlová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u98	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, last year an amendment to the Railway Act No. 266/1994 Coll., published as Act No. 319/2016 Sb. on 3 October 2016. At the same time, a new Office for Access to Transport Infrastructure, declared Law No. 320/2016 Coll., also on 3 October 2016. Both laws have been effective since 1 April this year. Laws have been discussed in continuum, because they are very closely linked. Therefore, immediately after their effectiveness, a number of questions come from the transport companies and carriers concerned, including the requirements for the interpretation of the laws. Carriers feel significantly threatened by sanctions in the law, because despite their every effort, they cannot properly fulfil legal obligations. And that's why I dare to address you and ask for answers to my questions. First. Who is competent at the Ministry of Transport to interpret these laws for application practice? Two. In what way and within what time frame can the carrier's obligations be fulfilled through the functional Office for Access to Transport Infrastructure? Three. Who has competence at the Ministry of Transport for public public public public transport? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u99	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u100	Mr Vice-President, honourable Member, honourable Members, the Office for Access to Transport Infrastructure has been operational by law since 1. 4. 2017 and this deadline has been respected. The President was appointed on 15 February 2017 with effect from 16 February and the systematicisation of posts from that office was approved by the Government on 13 March 2017. The Authority's budget has been drawn up and has funds to draw it up tomorrow, from 7 April 2017. Since March, the Office has also established a website, the address is www.uicr.cz, where contact details are included, including functional data box, which was established in March as well, but had to be blocked by 1 April before the Act on the Office of Efficiency came into force. The information on the website is continuously supplemented. The Office is temporarily located in the premises of the Ministry of Transport. His next residence will be decided by the government dislocation commission on 11 April. The President of the Office informed me that selection procedures have been opened to fill a systemized seat. The office isn't staffed enough yet. The performance of the administration is limited to the minimum necessary. But I was assured that there was no reason to see the threat to the carriers of sanctions or the reason that they could not fulfil their legal obligations. The Authority has already adopted a communication on accessibility to about 200 trains since this Monday. Following the request of the carriers, two administrative proceedings were initiated in respect of the lockout plan. And on your first question, I can say that the state authorities generally have no authority to interpret the law. Only the court is entitled to do so in the Czech Republic. Some basic opinions may be included in the information guidelines. The Authority has already published one such instruction on its website on 31 March 2017. This is a methodological guideline for assessing lifts in terms of public accessibility. In other words, the interpretation is made by the director or the chairman of this office. Your second question. Like I said, the office is operational. Although not occupied, he is able to perform his duties. And I have information that in matters of organization, Mr. Deputy Civil Service, Mr. Postránecký, is ready with his team to assist that office. We as the Ministry are the person who will be examined by the Bureau. We could be labeled out of bias. So we can't do these things for them. [[16.20 hours]] However, we have tried to give the authority the authority's authority, who will take care of wages and other matters, and who will submit the documents of this office to the government, to move it to the Office of the Government, which rejected it. We offered it to the Ministry of Industry and Trade, which also rejected it, so we're probably going to expose some sort of imaginary information wall of China, we're going to take care of it, but we're going to take care of it so that it's no doubt clear that we're not affecting it. And the third question. In the Ministry of Transport, the issue of railway operation and rail transport is covered by the railway and water transport department, and partly by this wide scope falls within the scope of the Public Transport Department and the Road Transport Department. All these unions are concentrated within the transport section, which is managed by the Deputy Němec. I would just add that, in the context of public public public transport, the scope is in the cities or regions that operate it, that is, the issue of negotiating subsidies are matters of statutory cities or regions. It is rather that we apply the conditions of law in those laws, however the scope or competence is on lower administrative units, if I have said so correctly. I hope so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u101	Thank you, Minister. I ask the honourable Member whether he is interested in a supplementary speech. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u102	Thank you. Minister, I deliberately asked those questions a little more generally and more widely, I did not want to be too specific. But I am going to allow myself a slight controversy about the functionality of the office that has been newly established, that is to say, the Office for Access to Transport Infrastructure, because I think that there is an alpha and an omega at the moment, for example, that any exclusion of traffic - you have talked about some closures - unfortunately, the railway law is extended to all railways, and it is necessary to include urban transport companies, and there are deadlines that clearly indicate in what horizons these lockouts are to be implemented. And today, even if you say it's part of the office, I feel like this is one of the big problems that still doesn't work at the moment. And they shouldn't actually do that without the authority's approval. It is true that their founders, the cities, behave a little differently in time, and this may give rise to the problem of breaking the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u103	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u104	You are right about one thing that unfortunately the system of selecting the head of this office was not quite well handled by the government in the past, but I am glad that it succeeded at least in February, so there will be some delays there. I'm not covering it up, and it would be unfair. On the other hand, I am convinced, and so I spoke to Mr. Kodym during his establishment that if he gets the initiative and has to respond to him within 40 days, he will follow that deadline and that he will certainly be able to do so, even if he should be at the computer late in the night. I believe that the fundamental issues that need to be addressed will be addressed. Frankly, I was a little worried that in the first week he would receive five quite substantial submissions from alternative carriers and four from the Czech Railways, which, fortunately, did not happen. They're giving him a little breath, but it's obvious that it's coming. These things are gonna have to be dealt with. I am certainly convinced that the economic equilibrium of the market will be assessed when entering the lines and other things. These are things that are going to be quite difficult, and there I fear those deadlines more than in the lockouts that I hope this office will be able to handle fairly effectively. I would like this office to work well, because it is not easy, and it is especially important for all of us to make it work well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u105	Please, Mrs Havlová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u106	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, the amendment to the Energy Act was intended to include specific amendments strengthening consumer protection, but it did not. Some of the paragraphs are still adapted to enable double interpretation, and for this reason they are even negative for consumers. The first major deficiency is that the amendment failed to introduce provisions that would allow the conclusion of contracts for combined electricity or gas supply services in writing only. Citizens of consumers thus experience daily phone calls from dishonest traders, who manipulate them, for example, into the telephone agreement with the contract. In connection with the change of supplier, the validity of the power of attorney is also problematic. There should have been a limitation of six months. This has also failed, and some traders, again, of course, the dishonest ones, can continue to abuse this situation, even indefinitely. The provisions of the Energy Act relating to the right to information about the concluded contract are also problematic. The attempt to put an end to this provision was completely unsuccessful. Last but not least, the Ombudsman was to anchor in the amendment to the Energy Act. Originally this institute was to provide out-of-court dispute resolution, it was to be enshrined in the Consumer Protection Act. However, the Ministry of Industry and Trade did not want this option and the Energy Ombudsman was to be transferred to the Energy Act. It didn't even happen. Minister, I ask how you want to deal with this issue and things for the benefit of consumers during your mandate. Of course, I will publish a written reply on my Facebook page. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u107	Thank you. Mr Nekl, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u108	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Last time I had this interview prepared, but Minister Herman was excused, so I kept it for today, unfortunately it is not here yet, but I will present it today because I need an answer. Dear Minister, I will be very brief. Next year, in 2018, 100 years have passed since the establishment of the Czechoslovak Republic. I'm sure there'll be spectacular celebrations. The President, Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk, in his vision and in his actions, paid considerable attention to strengthening the importance of culture and education by example of personal life and practical actions. I'm sure that's appreciated. He was the instigator of the formation of county and city libraries. One of the practical actions I can document on his share of the reconstruction of Prague's Klementinum for the needs of the modern library. I am from Přerov, but I believe that the problems of technical facilities and operating areas of district and city libraries are not unique. Our library is located in a house that is already oversized, the supporting walls had to be reinforced, the premises are not completely comfortable. The city took over several original administrative buildings, which can serve the library and modern librarianship not only by location, but also by housing design or judicial institutions, and thus by carrying capacity on individual floors. But investment costs would not be small. Now, my question. Does the Ministry of Culture expect to announce, for example, the 100th anniversary of the establishment of Czechoslovakia with the launch of a programme that could be called a program for the restoration of urban libraries? Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u109	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs. Zelienková was here. If she's in the foyer, I'm asking her to come to the interpellation. Mrs Zelienková has the floor and Mrs Langšádlová will prepare herself, which I also do not see yet. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u110	Hello. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. On 2 May 2016, the Czech Republic signed the Istanbul Convention against Violence against Women, drawn up by the Council of Europe, as one of the last states of the European Union. As a member of Parliament's delegation to the Council of Europe, I was surprised to learn that at one of the last talks of the Government, the ratification process of the Istanbul Convention had moved forward until November, although the Government's legislative plan clearly stated that this process would be completed in June 2017, for which the Government and the Ministry of Justice had all year. It will be shortly after the elections in November and there is a risk that this term will shift again and that ratification will take place sometime in 2018. We will again be unnecessarily criticised in the Council of Europe and this time rightly. The move of ratification to November basically means that the Convention will no longer be discussed during this parliamentary term. I assumed that, above all, the government would concentrate on similar legislative changes such as this, or as related to the ratification of the Istanbul Treaty, because the government would probably no longer submit any further bills that would not be able to be discussed in the House. If we consider ourselves an advanced democratic state, we should not push women's rights, let alone violence against women to a second level. Preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence in general is an important element of every modern advanced society, where we belong, of course. Am I to understand that the Minister of Women's Law is indifferent? I would therefore like to ask the Minister why the deadline has shifted to November and why he will not advocate that legislative changes be made during this parliamentary term, and I ask him to make the necessary legislation as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u111	Thank you. The Minister of Justice has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u112	Mr President, honourable Members, well, for goodness' sake, we would like to say. As I think it has been observed today in earlier hours, after years, I am the first to try to do something about our deficit in terms of international conventions, especially the Council of Europe, and so I am also doing well with your help, for which I thank you. This shift in the ratification process is due to the fact that, in order to ratify this treaty, we have to sort of amend our criminal code and we have to introduce crimes that I believe are still theoretical in our country at this point. I believe that will be the case in the future, but you never know. They're crimes of the kind of deliberate luring a woman, a man or a child into a foreign state to force them to marry and so on. The problem is that there is a need to amend the criminal code here, which would not have been possible during this parliamentary term, regardless of whether we would have brought it to the government in June or November. It doesn't really matter anymore. So the reason why we accepted - accepted - the Supreme Court comment, which asked us to move the deadline to November in the Government's legislative plan, was that from this point of view it doesn't matter, and if we move it to November, it will allow us to link the amendment to another amendment, which we are also planning for other reasons. So the goal was to do something for the users of our right so that they would not have a different amendment every week. You know that even here Members often beg when I come up repeatedly with amendments that always concern something else, they want it to be in one package. But when it's in one package, logically, it takes longer. Not because we shouldn't have written or couldn't have written about this particular convention by June, but because we just have some other things to do about something else. So when I sum up, there will be no delay at all, because simply and simply a condition of ratification is a change in the criminal code, which cannot be achieved in this parliamentary term, and therefore will necessarily take place in the next term. It is reasonable for this amendment to go to government in November, that is enough, so we do not push and threaten this term, especially because I am certainly not indifferent to women's rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u113	I will ask the honourable Member if he wishes to ask an additional question. It's not like that. In that case, please, Mrs Langšádlová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u114	Dear Minister of Transport, I appeal to you on the issue of dealing with the situation of excessive noise from freight transport in the valley of the river Berounka, in which you were also sent an open letter from the association of the municipalities of the Lower Berounka Region. Due to the considerable loading of the track during the day, noisy trains, freight trains run during the night. The citizens of the Berounka valley complain that they cannot sleep at night because they are awakened by an unbearable gnashing on the track and a really loud noise. The repeated measurements already carried out on that section confirmed the legitimacy of the complaints mentioned. From the above, it is evident that the situation cannot be postponed but, on the contrary, addressed in the shortest possible time frame. I therefore find it very inappropriate to wait until the reconstruction of the line, which would be sounded off, but the whole work would last up to eight years. A more prompt solution would bring about the exchange of noisy brakes required by the signatories of the open letter. Dear Minister, I ask for an answer on how the situation described will be dealt with and on what timetable. The situation is really very serious. The burden is very extensive and it cannot be waited years for the inhabitants of the Lower Berounka area to sleep. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u115	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u116	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the noise burden on the line in question is the most reflected in the locality of Černošice, but I agree that it is certainly heard in other municipalities, and at night already completely. In both remaining line sections, i.e. in the direction of Prague-Smíchov and Beroun, the permissible values are reflected within the old noise load up to the limit of 65 decibels at night and 75 decibels by day. In space Černošice these values are exceeded. However, the Railway Infrastructure Administration, on the basis of maintenance work on the line in question, is implementing ongoing measures to reduce noise levels. For example, in 2016, it was a way of fixing rails to sleepers, grinding rails and replacing rail passports and sleepers. In March 2017, the SŽDC held negotiations with both freight carriers, with the participation of the mayors of the municipalities, on the possibility of reducing noise when using the appropriate fleet. Since the optimization of the Prague-Beroun line is expected between 2020 and 2025, SŽDC asked the relevant Regional Hygiene Station of the Central Bohemia Region for a permissible exemption from the Public Health Act. In this context, a derogation was granted to the regional sanitation station concerned by 2020 and for the remaining group of noise-determined buildings, based on the noise reduction measures implemented. This is what the Bureau has prepared for me, and I'd like to add one more thing. Just the problem that's there isn't today's problem, it's a long-term problem. In this area, the problem is conceptually whether, how and to what extent the line in question is to be reconstructed. I am convinced that in the future we will have nothing but a reasonable modernization of this line and, secondly, to build a new tunnel that would actually carry the great burden under the ground where it would not sound. [[16.40 hours]] As far as Černošice is concerned, I also dealt with the mayor and the mayor of the village. That's where it hits two things. Of course, we could do relatively - well, we could and could not, depending on how it would be prepared - make noise measures faster. But they come across the resistance of the inhabitants and the municipalities. Just for the people around Berounka, the idea that we're going to build them a noise-resistant concrete wall up to three meters and the beautiful view they have today will be destroyed immediately, and it will be destroyed for many years because it will look ugly, it is for many citizens, and I understand them at this point, unacceptable and they do not want it. So there's a big debate about it, there's still going to be, we're talking about whether we could make some lower walls there, we're talking about giving the carriers another brake material that doesn't make the noise they make today that composite materials are being used. However, I would say that after times of blocking things SŽDC is now trying, and I have been involved personally, we are trying to find a solution that meets the conditions of noise, which would not at the same time destroy the beautiful landscape of the Berounka basin in a visual and aesthetically beautiful way, so that we do not leave our children an inheritance of something really very ugly. Here I'd just ask for a little patience, we're working on it, we're aware there's a problem, but we can't solve it by snapping our finger in a year or any faster, we can't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u117	Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u118	Minister, thank you for your answer. I'm sure you understand that she didn't completely satisfy me. Since birth I have been living in the very town of Černošice, where the situation is really getting worse, because thank God more and more trains ride during the day, for which we are very happy, but thanks to that, they drive overnight trucks. So it's a long-term thing, but she's really getting worse. I also support freight transport by train, because it is undoubtedly more suitable than car, virtually. truck, but the situation is really getting more and more serious. You didn't please me at all by getting an exception from the noise load, and I didn't completely understand it, and I'm not happy with that when you talked about the possibility of ordering a different type of brake. And I wanted to ask if you would do so, or the Railway Infrastructure Administration, and in what time horizon, because it would not solve the situation completely, but it would improve.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u119	Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u120	Maybe I was too hard and used the word "order." We can order this to our ČD Cargo, because it's a state company, not much to others. However, we are discussing this. And according to European guidelines, cars that don't have composite brakes nowadays can't go abroad. So we're dealing with this thing and we're trying to figure it out. I agree with you that unfortunately not only on this track, but on most of the tracks, rail transport usually only gets to the tracks at night and only then hears a lot of them, and I understand that when someone wants to sleep, it is warm and has an open window, so it is very unpleasant. I want to assure you that we will continue to discuss this with the association of municipalities and the municipality of Černošice and we will look for quick solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u121	Thank you. I ask the lady of the house to continue this time in the interpellation to the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u122	Madam Secretary, I am interrogating you on your speech at the Czech Radio on 12 March 2017 on the topic of media education which is taught in secondary schools. The interview was focused on the results of human research in distress, which showed that students have insufficient media education for more than half of secondary schools. Media education has been anchored in the curriculum for ten years. A high school student has to acquire skills during teaching to discern particularly true messages from lying ones. Critical thinking or analysis of media messages are very important skills nowadays in order to distinguish true information from disinformation, and I think that the school should help students to learn these skills significantly. However, the survey mentioned points out that the student often only completed less than ten hours of this education during his studies, which I consider to be quite inadequate. In this interview, you denied the need for media education in schools. I would like to draw attention to the need for civil education, which is part of media education and education for critical thinking. This is also mentioned in the national security audit as a security risk. So I would like to point out, Madam Secretary, that this issue cannot be underestimated. I very much appreciate your commitment and effort, improving the quality of teaching in secondary schools as well, but we must not underestimate this issue either. I would like to ask you, Madam Secretary, to make amends on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u123	Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u124	Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to take the liberty of responding to the intervention that has been put forward. I will begin with what I have actually said and in what context, in order to build the very basis for communication between myself and the Member. This was an interview in radio, when I discussed the declining mathematical and reading literacy and the importance of competence in the Czech language as a mother tongue, foreign language and mathematics, as well as the fact that our pupils and students are failing in these literacy. And so I said this to the media education: "Well, I have to say, after we've been passionately discussing math, mathematical skills, and the fourth technical revolution, I really don't see this as such a major problem. In our education in particular, we should ensure that children, pupils, students are successful in the three basic disciplines, i.e. Czech language, foreign language and mathematics, or if you want a natural language. I'd like us to focus on the essence of the matter. So if I'm gonna say something as my concern and my problem, it's really the triad. And I think that media education is by no means prohibited or supported in our schools, but it is not the essence of the matter. And I think that media education or media prowess to be informed by pupils, students, children around them, it's not just about teachers. That's up to the parents too, it's up to the society itself, it's up to the politicians after all, so I think we can reliably share this. For those schools, I'd rather be fit in the three subjects I mentioned." This means, in no way do I think that media education is part of education, but I dare say that it is one of the competences to be acquired not only in school. I would also like to say that it is true that we do not test global competence, it was a discussed matter in the media, but we have a problem in particular with reading literacy and also with mathematical and natural literacy. Finally, I would like to conclude by saying that the school's task - and I firmly believe that we fight for it every day, or definitely teachers - is to teach children, students, students to think about it. Think. Critical thinking, thinking, discussing, arguing. This is, I believe, their teachers teach every second. As for the broader approach to the mentioned civil education, the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports has just started piloting under my direction. We support pupil parliaments, we support critical debate in schools, we support school councils and this civil education project is piloted at the Ministry of Education. From this point of view, I do not feel that this - and now beware - is the main problem of today's education, but it certainly does not mean that I would urge that media education is irrelevant or that we should not strengthen it. But it's not just teachers and schools.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u125	Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u126	Madam Secretary, I very much appreciate the steps you have taken in the field of civil education, and I absolutely do not question the importance of competence in mathematics, foreign language and Czech. But I am really very concerned about the results of Man's in distress survey, which simply showed that there is a completely inadequate media education. I absolutely do not question what you said, which means that other subjects should participate in media education, that there is also the role of the family, the public, the entire society. However, I do not think that we can afford precisely because it is also a security risk, the level of how our public is able, for example, to distinguish true messages from lies and to be subject to misinformation. That is why I think that the situation is changing very much, and even at school level it is necessary to pay more attention to this, so that we can improve the results, as the survey has shown. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u127	Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u128	I would still like to add, Madame, but, of course, to you, fellow Members, that the government is going to approve the concept of civil education in May of this year. And I would also mention the achievement of this government, when a special group arose at the Ministry of the Interior, which is aimed at combating false reports and, of course, working with the Internet environment. This means that my concern is simply to share these issues, which are strong and which are related to the current very dynamically changing times and new threats, in order to share these concerns. So we don't pretend it's the schools that save us. That's why I'm asking you to think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u129	Thank you, too. Mr Štětina, please, and Mr Kaňkovský will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u130	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister. The dawn of the national coalition is a party that is not tossed by any corruption scandals, and it is evident from the speeches of the party's members that they are fighting anti-corruption in a non-negotiable manner. For example OKD, financing air rescue services, disapproval of Kalouskův's proposals and so on. It is no secret how our judicial system and our courts work, how individual cases are judged, returned to investigation and transferred in a ping-pong manner to lower and then to higher instances. The textbook examples include David Rath, Nagyová, CASA, Pandura, and many others. The words of the classic can be said: the water flows, the words are spoken and the years run. Witnesses forget, the evidence is mysteriously lost, and so corruption cases are slowly moving towards an end without punishment, as is the case with the financing of air rescue services. And if a case happens to come to a final conviction, the presidential amnesty will take place. The Ústí Region is known to the public as "ustický Palermo." It is no secret that the state administration is dysfunctional in this region, especially because of existing clientelistic and non-political ties, as evidenced by the world's famous ROP case Northwest or the approval of the construction of photovoltaic power plant in the bird reserve in Moldava in the Ore Mountains. Dear Minister, is it in your power to address this situation at least partially? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u131	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u132	Mr President, honourable Members, I would therefore like to answer that last question. It is in my power to partially address this situation. But, in fact, only partially and more precisely, in the scope of the powers conferred on the Minister of Justice. I'm certainly not someone who would have wanted to call for their extension in any way. In many cases, and often in those you name, I would like to be able to do something about it at that time. Then I always realize that if I had that option, I would also have the opportunity to do the exact opposite, to sweep something up and hurt someone. Simply put, it would be powers that do not belong in a democratic society and in the rule of law. And that's a stronger value. So where I have these powers, I use them. That's what I think everyone can see after all. Whether it's a complaint for breaking the law in the Rath case, whether it's the personnel changes that have taken place and are taking place at the prosecutor's office, in the courts. But it is clear that my powers are very limited. At the same time, it is clear that the personnel capacities of the prosecutors in the area of investigating these extremely serious matters are very limited, because it is simply complicated, it is not common criminality. And there are few prosecutors who also have the necessary moral profile, and at the same time have the necessary expertise, skills, knowledge and experience to investigate these things. So I think maybe knowing what ROP Northwest is is the result of something changing. The fact that this is changing more slowly than we would like is that it sometimes changes in the opposite direction, for example, despite all our efforts, see last year's reorganisation of police units, that is also true. But I'm still optimistic, and until I fall into this fight, I'm gonna believe that he's gonna win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u133	I beg the Member if he wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u134	So just for a very short time. Of course, thank you very much for the Minister's honest and sincere words. Of course, I watch very carefully the efforts that he has, which sometimes are actually seen, see these cases and the criticism of certain procedures of the courts. But I understand. And I'm also not a person who's not for democracy. So, Minister, I'm very satisfied with your words, and I'm going to wish you to do your next job so that you can do the next one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u135	The Minister no longer wishes to speak. Please Mr Kaňkovský and Mrs Zelienková will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u136	Good afternoon, dear absent Minister. As of 1 January 2017, new operators operate air rescue services in the regions. Not long after the start of the new operation, there were facts that upset citizens and the professional public. This is the part of the contracts with the new operators that say -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u137	I am very sorry, but the topic of the interpellation is the state of implementation of Health 2020. That's probably the other one. [[Mr Kaňkovsky is looking for evidence for a second interview.]] I'll ask you again to set the timer to...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u138	I apologize to all present. So one more time. Dear absent Minister, the Government of the Czech Republic adopted in March 2014, and subsequently the Chamber of Deputies, the National Strategy for Health and Health Protection and Disease Prevention 2020 has also done so. In September 2015, the government adopted 13 so-called action plans detailing specific objectives, responsibilities, indicators, deadlines for the key priority themes of this national strategy and framework budgets. It is generally known, or at least in the professional public, that, in terms of the quality of health of the Czech population, there has been a significant extension of life expectancy after 1989. Unfortunately, another qualitative parameter, which is generally recognised life expectancy in health, that is, the part of life that a particular person will experience without significant health restrictions, is no longer successful in the Czech Republic. Its extension only occurs very slowly. And here you can see the fundamental difference, for example, in comparison with the Nordic countries. [[17,00 hours]] According to epidemiologists, one factor is the low level of prevention programs, especially primary prevention in the Czech Republic. Primary prevention of diseases is one of the key tools to improve the quality of health of the population. In the Czech Republic, however, this area has long been underestimated. And here comes my question. Thirteen action plans adopted include a number of activities in particular in primary prevention. Many partial tasks should already have been completed during 2016. Unfortunately, neither the public nor the House nor at least the members of the Health Committee have yet received information on the fulfilment of these objectives. So, Minister, what is the current situation?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u139	Thank you. Please, Mrs Zelienková, and Mr Hovorka will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u140	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister of the Environment, recently there has been constant talk of water shortages in the landscape, droughts that threaten us, and low levels of groundwater in wells. I therefore ask the Environment Minister Richard Brabec to define clearly that water is a strategic raw material that must be protected and managed with reason. An example of how drinking water is not to be protected is gravel extraction in Uherské Ostroh. Since I am from this region, I know the situation very well and I have been following it for a long time. The private owner wants to benefit in large quantities of gravel in places where drinking water supplies are available for about 140,000 people in the Zlín Region and South Moravian Region. I myself took part two years ago in a public meeting with representatives of the Ministry of the Environment before the final assessment of the environmental impact of the EIA. Since then, more than 14,000 people have signed a petition against mining and have opposed it to 60 municipalities. EIA finally allows mining and Jampílek continues in the next steps leading to the permission of mining. Minister Brabec assured the city leadership a week ago at the city hall in Uherské Ostroh that if the town hall insisted that it would not allow mining, sell its land and change the land plan in which the land is not now intended for mining, mining should be prevented. However, the Minister does not seem to know that according to the new construction law, Yampílek does not have to apply for a change in the zoning plan unless the plan explicitly states a ban on mining. And that is not the case, since in its preparation the town hall did not assume that in the future the construction law would be so imperfect that the text of the zoning plan could be interpreted in its favour even against the interest of the state and citizens. In addition, the town hall does not have to sell the land, today Mr. Jampílek has enough of his land to benefit from. The decisive word in the matter will be the Czech Mining Authority. The whole matter will probably end up in court, because whatever the CBU's opinion is, one party will be sued. I will continue to deal with the situation in Uherské Ostroh, and I will try to help the people and the town hall protect the water. The government must prioritize the state to protect sources of drinking water from any extraction or other possible source of pollution. [[Time!]] I ask the question: I ask the Minister of the Environment what the government intends to do to ensure that the sources of drinking water are not compromised by mining companies and their lobby, and whether it will be determined by the state as a priority to protect scarce sources of drinking water and this priority will be superior to the permit to benefit. The authorisation is usually processed by officials who often do not take into account such interest of the State. [[Time!]] It is up to the government, in the event of a minimal threat of pollution, to intervene and protect future generations, perhaps the rarest thing we can leave them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u141	I beg you to keep your time. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u142	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My colleague, I'm a little embarrassed right now, because you actually have three interpelations on a very similar subject. Now, in order not to repeat it in the other two, I don't know if you're the three interpelations - so I'm gonna try it and maybe I'll satisfy you enough to give up the other two. First of all, I want to say that, of course, and my colleague knows this well, I know the whole Uhersky Ostroh thing well. After all, I was there a few weeks ago to personally look, and I also dealt with the management of the village. And I would like to say in advance, and I think our steps clearly show that we consider water and, above all, the availability of drinking water to be strategic. That means I consider so-called. water safety for as essential as energy safety, if not more essential. That's what I think we're gonna factor out in front of the imaginary parentheses. The government also makes it clear within a number of concepts that it deals with the issue of drought in very detail and specifically, and not only in its strategies, but already in hundreds of concrete projects that we support in the area of the fight against drought, whether it is, say, in the area of nature close to measures or, but that is in the gesture of the Ministry of Agriculture, say, more artificial measures or technical measures such as. construction of dams or restoration of ponds, etc. You know that drinking water is more of a matter that is at the edge of the Ministry of Environment's competence and the Ministry of Agriculture, so I'm not going to deal with the water supply thing. Although here I can say that only from the Operational Programme Environment will the amount go to 2020 more than CZK 3 billion to build new sources of drinking water and, especially for small municipalities, we have prepared a programme from the National Programme Environment 300 million. Crowns. We have already exhausted a third of it, and we are supporting dozens of small ones, or in the future it will be hundreds of small towns, in a very near future that we are helping to provide new sources of drinking water. I realize that the issue of drought, and I say it everywhere, will be, in my opinion, and not only in my opinion, but mainly in the opinion of a number of experts in the field of hydrology and hydrogeology, the biggest environmental problem in the Czech Republic in the next decades. Unfortunately, that is very likely. Water well-being in the Czech Republic is over and we must prepare for it. That means keeping water in the landscape in every possible way. The issue you are talking about is that the problem is that repeatedly in the EIA process occurred on the basis of assessments that even the Ministry of the Environment has arbitrarily made, to conclude that mining is possible there and has no incomparable influence, an impact on surface water, or in this case rather groundwater. All the more so that, in fact, gravel sand mining took place in the vicinity for many years, and even closer to the Bzenec extraction area, and there was no damage to the groundwater in any way. It is true that with this new activity, with which a new miner came along, she launched rather significant opposition and comments, which the EIA process really seriously and dares to say, even thoroughly examined, but again concluded that there was no incomparable influence, which would threaten some really serious or any threat to the bottom waters. Therefore, the consent of the EIA was submitted. And as you rightly said, it's now up to the Mining Authority to decide. According to my information, the Mining Authority has really repeatedly... or he's had the deadline extended, and he's obviously considering all the information coming from the county health department, from the county office, from us. And it's up to him to decide how he's gonna stand up to it. And his opinion, i.e. the decision of the District Mining Authority, will be judicially reviewed. [[Time warning]] Well, I'd say that's the deal, then, in the context of a follow-up question, I guess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u143	Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u144	Thank you for your answer. Of course, I appreciate that the priority of the Ministry is to protect drinking water, which I think should also be the priority of the government. I set an example of Hungary's Ostroh as an example. I would like to draw attention here to things that have not been said exactly as such. the fact that in this location or in this area it has already been mined and water pollution has not occurred. There was a place that is far away from the source of drinking water, and there was no mining at such a great depth. But we could have a discussion here about this particular mining. [[17.10 hours]] But my point is for the government to say clearly that it is the government's priority to protect drinking water resources. And if there's any possibility of any extraction with potential disruption, whether it's the potential for minimal disruption of drinking water, so that the government will have the last word and say no, we won't allow it because it's our state interest in protecting drinking water. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u145	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u146	Sorry. I'd like to ask for a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u147	I'm sure you do. Thank you for the follow-up question that will allow me to really finish it. Yes, you're right. The EIA process does not allow public interest to be taken into account today. The EIA process is actually strictly professional and says whether or not it can be negatively affected by environmental components, including water. The truth is that there are some states, it is a need for Slovenia, we are now working intensively with the State of Israel, which has a similar one, which really seems to have been hit in the coat of arms, that water is the highest strategic priority. And at that point, the public interest would have been judged differently. So, yes, I'm dealing with this matter within the very thing that concerns the fight against drought. And it is likely that we will propose something similar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u148	Please, Mr Hovorka, after him, Mr Seďa.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u149	Mr Vice-President of the Government, on the basis of several suggestions, I have found that some of the employees of the local offices of the financial authorities are facing many problems, but, above all, the excessive workload to overload. Let me give you a few examples. Individual officials - tax authorities must process up to 1,100 pieces of personal income tax return during the year and any overpayments must be refunded within a period of one month. I said, is that a standard number? If one of the coworkers gets long-term ill or retires, the work will be redistributed to other department workers. A new worker is waiting for up to six months and the remaining workers are working under a lot of stress. Increasing the workload brings the need for overtime, but it is not paid in full, overtime is often not fully recognised and employees are offered a spare leave. However, if they take a spare leave, they must do more work when they return to work, which they could not do at the time of taking a spare leave, because the work must be done by one department. Territorial workplaces are evaluated according to performance, e.g. according to the number of certain types of documents, at the same time, 90 per cent of these documents are produced artificially, only to correspond to the number artificially determined, because the more documents, the better the evaluation. But these are not correct benchmarks, because a worker who processes 800 confessions certainly has more time to produce artificial procedures to eliminate doubts than a worker who processes 1,100 confessions. The constant amendment of tax laws brings higher requirements for training employees. Every worker would like to go to various trainings and get expertise. Unfortunately, during the above-mentioned workload, he would have recovered from the labour rush for at least a month after returning from the training. For these reasons, workers cannot travel to training. If a tax entity applies for the refund of an overpayment to an account other than that previously and has more than one account, workers must ask which account it is due to return to, and it is an unnecessary time burden. [[The President draws attention to the time]] So I would like to ask you, Mr Vice-President, if you could address these suggestions and help the financial authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u150	Thank you, too. Please, Mr Seďa, and Mrs Semelová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr First Vice-President of the Government, the Customs Administration has new powers when it began to check the electronic record of sales and newly illegal gambling. However, the CEO complained that he lacked people for these new tasks. Therefore, they must limit, for example, the number of cases in which they are located. control of counterfeits. Last year, customs seized counterfeits for more than 600 miles. CZK, and this is what these counterfeits of various goods are now moving from markets to online stores, in the event that the most experienced workers handle illegal gambling and meet elsewhere. Minister, I would therefore like to ask if you have any information on the comparison of the first quarter in confiscating counterfeits with the same period last year and whether you are aware of the lack of customs officers. And if so, how are you going to solve the staff shortage problem? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u152	Thank you, too. Please, Mrs Semelová, and Mr Zlatuška will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u153	Good afternoon. Madam Secretary, one of the problems that has long been referred to in education are textbooks. Recently Miloš Rathouský raised this issue again from the Confederation of Industry and Transport of the Czech Republic. He pointed out not only the age and lack of textbooks and teaching materials, but also the quality of older texts. These often no longer fully meet the current focus and diversity of study fields. This is confirmed by a questionnaire investigation conducted last year by a publishing house which shows that half of the respondents are having difficulty in obtaining teaching material. The biggest shortage is in groups of electrical engineering, engineering and engineering production, construction, geodesy, etc. In addition, more than 90 percent of students said that they use digital materials in their teaching, whose quality and reliability are all too often low. The investigation also shows that teachers of professional subjects are interested in classical textbooks. Many schools deal with this situation by writing their own teaching texts on their knees. There is no good situation in basic education - on the one hand, many years of textbooks used, and on the other hand, the fact that in some subjects workbooks are used instead of textbooks, which parents have to pay for. The free education enshrined in the Constitution thus takes its own. Ensure available quality study and teaching materials that respond to new approaches in education and the transformation of contemporary education should be an obligation and of course an interest of the Ministry of Education. You're familiar with this condition, and what are you going to do about it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u154	Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u155	Mr President, honourable Members, I certainly cannot deny that Mrs Semelová's description is true, at least as far as any part of the school is concerned. As far as the Ministry is concerned, his main role is in granting approval clauses. Which textbooks or aids are presented in this regime, therefore, depends on the initiative of entities different from the Ministry. As regards some more systemic approach or support, in 2013, the Ministry supported, in the context of education for competitiveness, the subsidization of electronic textbooks focused on technical and natural sciences. As part of this activity, electronic textbooks for teaching specialist subjects were created. Therefore, I am prepared to present a summary of the technical textbooks in the case of engineering to the Member immediately in writing. However, I believe that, as she described the problems that are, of course, in schools, and from the point of view of the system, we can address this as the Ministry by the long-awaited increase of ONIV, for example. the practice of paying workbooks is related in particular to this nešvar. I will try to increase ONIV in the following medium term and apply these requirements to the Ministry of Finance and I will seek to support my colleagues in the government. As far as, overall, vocational education is able to respond to very rapid recent knowledge or innovative developments, I dare say that there is a great challenge in fulfilling the tasks arising both from the concept of digital education, then from the concept of vocational education, i.e. that system documents were approved and accepted by the Ministry. And most of all, what I can do at this time as Minister, so promise the Member that I will pay personal attention to this and therefore make every effort to speed up this modernisation of education so that every pupil and student has access to quality textbooks and directors are supported by the Ministry as an expert guarantor in this respect.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u156	Please, ma'am.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u157	I thank you for the promise, of course. I promise, on the other hand, that I am willing to help in any way I can. It must be divided into two parts, both the availability of textbooks and the quality and need of textbooks. As far as accessibility is concerned, and this also applies to workbooks, the problem is, of course, that, unlike the workbook textbooks, they cannot circulate for several years, it is always disposable. When it comes to textbooks and their availability, in secondary schools, students have to buy them there, even if they are certain funds, on the other hand, technical disciplines have textbooks that are extremely expensive. So that's availability. As far as they are needed, I would recommend that we make a round table with the participation of associations, where we would really say what textbooks are needed that are lacking in the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u158	Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u159	Of course, I can promise the Member such a round table over the course of two months with the fact that I personally believe that, in terms of technical disciplines, including engineering, the future will really mean a greater use of electronic materials, aids, also sharing innovation and the issue of accessibility, including free access to students. That's my personal vision, that's the trend. So I will be glad if we meet in two months like this, and of course I promise full cooperation between the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u160	Mr. Zlatuška, please. Mr Bendl will be prepared if he is present.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u161	Mr President, I would like to intersect the absent Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek. On the Internet, there is a medialized message sent by Vice-President Bělobrádek by e-mail on 4 April to Mr Peter Maťa, where he responded to a request to support Central European University and distance himself from Fidesz. Mr Bělobrádek replied: Good day, we were discussing the situation at the EPP Summit at the convention. The exclusion of Fidesz is not on the agenda, among other things, because Mr Soros' activities are very controversial. Blobrádek. I would like to ask about this position, in particular, given that Central European University is a top scientific institution, one of the best rated similar schools in our region. I am very concerned about such a position from a vice-premier who has science. I note that the European University Association has issued a statement that it is extremely shocked and deeply concerned about Hungary's decision to amend the law aimed at Central European University. The European University Association is a community of 850 universities in 37 countries. At the moment when the Vice Prime Minister, who has science in his mind, expresses himself in this way, even though I understand the affinity with Fidesz and Viktor Orbán, by the way, Sorosův' scholarship from the late 1980s, I should like to explain it from Mr. Vice Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u162	Thank you. Mr Bendl is not present, Mrs Zelienková is not present. Mr. Seďa.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u163	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, as you mentioned, the interpellation will concern the chemist Prechez. In the autumn of 2014, he threatened the people of Přerov's poisonous gas, which escaped from the local chemist Precheza. Original fine of 7 million. The Czech Ministry of Environment reduced to half a million crowns awarded by the Czech Environment Inspection. Precheza belongs to the Agrofert Group and you, as Minister of the Environment, are a member and Vice-President of the ANO 2011 movement. I don't want to speculate that you've taken on the company's business interests as head of the political movement, as it was in the media. Rather, I am struck by the fact that the fine has been reduced this way, because the maximum measured sulphur dioxide concentration of 12,687 micrograms per cubic metre was available, which could cause nausea and irritation of the mucous membranes. I remind you that the health limit is 350 micrograms per cubic meter. That is why I ask, Minister, what is your opinion on reducing this fine. My second question is how did the investigation of the Czech Environmental Inspection and what are the conclusions regarding the violation of the condition for the new start-up of Precheza production, on the basis of which this fine was granted. Allegedly, the company disagrees with a reduced half-million-dollar fine and wants to go to court. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u164	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u165	Thank you for the floor. Thank you for asking. A little related to questions of previous or previous questions by Mrs Pěnčíková. I may be a bit of a repeater, but I hope you'll forgive me. I would like to emphasise once again that the decision in the case of the appeal of Precheza was not the decision of the Minister, but it was indeed the decision of the Department of Public Administration, in this case specifically in Olomouc. In this case, the Minister is not an authorised official and has no opportunity to influence the administrative proceedings under way. The decision of the Ministry, in this case the administration's authority, is duly justified and is also judicially reviewable. According to my information, the Department of Public Administration has confirmed an error concerning non-compliance with the condition of a valid integrated permit imposing sufficient time to notify the competent authorities, i.e. the Czech Inspection and Municipal Authorities, of the production plant's raid after long-term outage. This notification did not take place and for this the Precheza Ministry imposed a penalty of CZK 500,000. Other errors found by the Czech Inspectorate have not been sufficiently demonstrated or have not been in breach of the conditions of the integrated authorisation for which a penalty could be imposed, according to the decision of the Department of Administration. In one case, in the opinion of the public administration authority, there was no breach of the law. In particular, this was the following: a breach of the operating order where the entity did not have the documentation processed for operation. In the opinion of the administration's authority, this cannot be regarded as a contradiction with the integrated authorisation and therefore fined. Secondly, the notification obligation applies to environmental activities, which is not the case for the additional adjustment of Precheza steam boiler, therefore the Ministry of the Environment has also annulled the Czech Inspection Decision on the penalty. Again, I would like to say that the appeal body, in this case the Department of Public Administration, oversees the legality of decisions given in the so-called first instance, in this case the Czech Inspection, any sanctions can be granted to the entity only in accordance with the law. The possibility of reducing or even abolishing a fine is also given by law to the appeal authority. [[17.30 hours]] I would just like to point out to your question that, of course, we have done statistics, and we do it every year, that the reduction of the fine by the second-instance body, which in this case is the relevant department of administration, is not unusual. In 2013, the Czech Inspection Decision was amended in 141 cases, of which it was decided in 34 cases to reduce the fine by more than 50 per cent. In 2013, the Ministry decided 651 times to appeal against the decision of the CIC. In 2014, the Ministry of the Environment decided to appeal the decision of the Czech Inspection in 784 cases and 168 times the Department of Public Administration decided to change the decision of the Czech Inspection and in 55 cases the fine was reduced by more than 50 percent. Similarly, in 2015, the penalty imposed by the Czech Environmental Inspection Department reduced the performance of the state administration by more than 50 per cent in 52 cases and in 55 cases the penalty was abolished entirely. Finally, last year, the Ministry, again the Department of Public Administration, which is actually 14 according to regional workplaces, reduced the fine by more than 50 per cent in 43 cases and in 32 cases was completely abolished. And there are a number of cases where the million-dollar fines have really been abolished, maybe they have been reduced to CZK 30 or 50,000. So I would just like to make it clear that - I myself had the statistics submitted, and of course we have the statistics for years naturally until 2010 and even more distant years to show clearly that there is no rare example at all where the second-instance body has decided on a significant reduction of the fine, or even the abolition of the fine imposed by the first-instance body. And that doesn't have to be just the Czech Inspection, that's for example. also Agency for Nature and Landscape Conservation, respectively. some decisions, such as protected landscape areas. So this case has attracted attention. And I understand that it's caused media attention, too, and thank you for saying that you're not going into any speculation. I really want to confirm clearly here that this is decided by completely independent officials in the first instance and in the second instance and it is judicially reviewable. [[The President draws attention to the time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u166	The Member wishes to speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u167	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I understand that, even the statistics are or have been published, or have been partially published, but we certainly agree that the fines, but especially the amount of fines, should serve as prevention. Prevention from endangering the health and even the lives of citizens. As far as the statistics are concerned, yes, I understand that the Department of Public Administration's performance in the past and at present actually reduces these fines on the basis of its competence, but the reduction of CZK 6.5 million seems to me to be very high.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u168	If the Minister does not wish to answer, Mr Štětina shall have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u169	Thank you once more for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, I hereby follow up on the previous interpellation. With the authority of the state authorities in Palermo in Ústí, I have noted the findings relating to the activities of the District Attorney's Office in Most, which is run by Dr. Naďa Voláková. In this context, Minister, I have sent you a written request to explain the non-standard procedure of persons active at the District Attorney's Office in Most, from which it can be concluded that this prosecutor is at least managed in a way unprofessional and lax, as the public prosecutor's action appears to have so-called. The black hole where the documents are lost is probably shredded by incoming documents, which should be properly based in the surveillance file. We are no longer surprised that this particular criminal case is a bribery corruption offense in accordance with the provisions of § 332 para. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. (a) and (b) the Penal Code, which is led by this prosecutor under the file mark 2Zn 3517/2015. My last remnants of faith lead me to believe that this is not a deliberate deliberate act, but that it is the criminal negligence of the employees or employees of this prosecutor. However, Minister, you must understand that I cannot remain silent on this matter and put my head in the sand. Therefore, I expect your kind answer both orally and in writing, given the seriousness of my findings. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u170	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u171	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief here, because I also received a written interview from you on this matter, I received it some time a week or maybe two weeks ago, and what I did was that I turned to the Supreme Public Prosecutor asking for information, because the facts you are stating are serious and require thorough scrutiny. I don't have the reaction yet, it usually takes about a month, so I'm not concerned about this here, and I'm waiting to have it. When I get it, I'm going to evaluate it thoroughly, and I'm going to add my answer to the written interpelation, and we're going to see what's going on and why.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u172	The Member no longer wishes to speak. Mr Bendl is not present, so Mr Kaňkovský has the floor, and so will the helicopters. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u173	Good afternoon, so you're repping Air Rescue once more. Dear absent Minister, as of 1 January 2017, new operators operate air rescue services in the regions. Not long after the start of the new operation, there were facts that upset citizens and the professional public. This is the part of the contracts with the new operators that say that the air traffic for those bases that do not have 24 hours of operation is shorter than the previous period and this will also correspond to the remuneration. In practice, this means that while the air rescue service took off earlier from dawn to dusk, today it can take off only according to the agreed time, i.e. in the morning an hour or longer after dawn and the evening can no longer take off after the contracted end of air traffic, even though it is not yet dark. A relatively lively discussion has already taken place on this subject, in which your ministry resists the fact that 24-hour operation from the bases in Pilsen, Prague, Ostrava and Brno is ensured for the whole Czech Republic. Yet there are situations, there are specific cases where take-off of an air rescue service from a geographically closest site is the fastest for a patient's life-threatening treatment, and thus the safest. At its press conference on 15 March this year, the Ministry of Health announced that it would look for ways to address the situation by paying off air rescue services outside the agreed period. My question is whether the Ministry of Health has already found - and what - a concrete solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u174	Thank you, too. Mr. Seďa down, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u175	Dear Minister, the Office for the Protection of Competition has abolished the Ministry of Transport's tender for the administration of the Central Vehicle Register. This tender for more than CZK 100 million was cancelled because your ministry did not define the contract in the details necessary for the submission of tenders. The problem is that this office cancelled last year's tender for the same thing. Therefore, the Ministry of Transport was forced to extend the existing contract with ICZ for an additional 18 months for CZK 45 million. Dear Minister, this case reminds me of the case of Kapsch concerning the selection of myth. In my opinion, your ministry is either not working professionally well and spending taxpayers' money unnecessarily, or, which would be even worse, deliberately manipulating tender and tender procedures, which reeks of possible corruption behavior. That is why I would like to ask, Minister, about your opinion about this tender on the management of the central vehicle register as well as your judgment on the quality of your collaborators. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u176	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u177	Mr President, honourable Members. First of all, Mr Seďa, through Mr President, I would object to your words about possible corruption behaviour or some manipulation in a public contract, because these are things that are certainly not going on in our ministry and certainly not in relation to the Central Vehicle Register contract. If I can provide more comprehensive information - 29 days. 11th year 2013 the Ministry launched an open procurement procedure called Operation of the CRV application. Since, during the procurement procedure, the contracting authority was forced to incorporate the conditions of the crisis management act at the time, the tender procedure was cancelled and the contract was concluded in the negotiated procedure without publication on 29. 3. 2014 on the provision of services for a period of 12 months with an option of 6 months, the service provider was then ICZ, a.s. Following the implementation of the conditions of the Crisis Management Act and the implementation of the requirements of operators of major systems, e.g. the basic registers, for communication with the RSV, the procurement procedure was reopened on 29. 4. 2015. Office for the Protection of Competition by decision of 26. 8. 2015 canceled this procurement procedure because it concluded that the Ministry of Transport, as a contracting authority, did not define the minimum level of technical qualification provided for by the Public Procurement Act in the details necessary for the processing of the tender when it requested that the members of the implementation team, among other things. they had secondary or higher education in a technical way without defining this vague term. I note that this objection was given by the current operator, who knew exactly what he was offering. So you can get an idea of how relevant it was. Following the incorporation of the Office for the Protection of Competition of the Deficiencies, the Ministry published on 3 October in the Public Procurement Bulletin. 6. 2016 new procurement documents for the procurement of operation and development of the Central Vehicle Register. Office for the Protection of Competition by decision of 20. 10. 2016 canceled the procurement procedure because it concluded that the contracting authority did not define the subject matter of the contract in the details necessary for the submission of the tender, when it did not specify in the tender terms the nature of the detailed technical information on the non-public procurement documents... provided exclusively to the selected tenderer following the signature of the contract for the performance of the contract in question and thus made it impossible for the tenderers to assess the impact of that information on the fixing of the tender price, thereby failing to comply with the principle of transparency. Again, I would add that this objection was given by the current operator, which operates in both public and private mode, so that he knew exactly what he had to offer. However, it turned out that the Authority canceled the competition. The Ministry has not agreed to and requested a statement from the Security Information Service and subsequently from the National Security Office. Both authorities have confirmed that we can't provide classified information to all those offering information. Both institutions agreed in their comments that the continuation of the open selection procedure could pose a security risk to the State and therefore found a reason for using the legal exemption. So the Ministry of Transport, on the basis of the above opinions of the State security forces, called on the existing service supplier, ICZ, to submit an offer to conclude a contract to ensure the operation and development of the road vehicle register, which was concluded on 30. 3. 2017. It is closed for an indefinite period, respectively. until the maximum amount is exhausted. [[Attention on time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u178	Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u179	So thank you, Minister, for your answers. I take note of your obstruction. On the other hand, I thank you for actually describing the whole tender, the problems involved. And you have to admit that the contract contained a lot of mistakes, whether procedural or rather those things that the Office for the Protection of Competition had to respond to. You simply mentioned that a contract with ICZ, a.s. is currently being concluded for an indefinite period. I wanted to ask if there would be any new tender for this register in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u180	Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u181	Mr President, if you listened to me well, I did not acknowledge that we made a lot of mistakes. We didn't make a mistake. The first tender was cancelled by the Office for the Protection of Competition for a banal reason that we said that we wanted a technical education, and he said that it was not sufficiently specified. Well, in my opinion, the technical education is sufficiently specified. But, of course, the Bureau has an opinion and has a right to it. And he's the one who decides. The second thing that the Bureau will say is that we have failed to describe the secret parts of the registry that are being used by the Secret Service, and the Secret Service will tell us that we can't describe them, so please try to explain to me how to respond to this. Therefore, and because in the current deteriorating situation, both the Security Authority and the BIS have recommended that they do not compete and that this register gradually gets into the hands of the state, we are going in the direction that we will have it, in the state it will be in full security mode and as such it will be operating in the future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-009-289.u182	Thank you, Minister. And since Mrs Zelienková is absent and Mr Bendl is not present, I am of the opinion that we have closed the oral consultations for today's day. Thank you for your participation, and I'm interrupting the meeting until 9:00 a.m. tomorrow. Good evening and goodbye.
