ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-001-297.u1	297. Final report of the Chamber of Deputies investigating the activities of members of the Police Presidium of the Czech Republic, the Organized Crime Detection Unit of the Police of the Czech Republic and prosecutors of the Supreme Prosecutor's Office in Olomouc in connection with the reorganisation of ÚOOZ and ÚOKFK Police of the Czech Republic on 1 August 2016 /Departmental Document 5661/ You have just been handed out on the bench with written material, which includes a motion for a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies. I now ask the President of the committee of inquiry, Mr Pavel Blažek, to present the report. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-001-297.u2	Hello, thank you for your word. I would like to begin by saying that the investigative report we are presenting today is divided into several parts. And since I have to read the report, I would like to say that the opening part, which basically contains information about when and who set up the committee, who led it, who was a member, how many times they met, and so on, I would leave this part out, because I could only delay you. [[The noise in the hall.]] And since the message is now being given to you, it would be like it's useless to read it to you. That is why I would go straight to the point, which means I'm going to read the part that is called the Most Important factual findings, and then I'm going to go to the part of the Evaluation and then I'm going to go to the part of the Resolution. I would ask Mr President if it could be a little quiet here after all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-001-297.u3	Well, I'll try to make it for you by scaring the MPs that I'm going to banish anyone who talks to the galley space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-001-297.u4	So let me look at the part first. The most relevant factual findings and then parts of the Evaluation. Here I would like to point out immediately that this part has been approved unanimously by the Commission, which means all seven votes. From the point of view of legal competence, the Police President is entitled to propose an organisational change at the level of the national services to the Minister of the Interior, who subsequently decides on its approval. There is no obligation for the Police President to inform other bodies, such as prosecutors, of this proposal. However, one of the analyses referred to by the Police Department of the Czech Republic recommends consulting the professional public, in particular prosecutors, due to the sensitivity of the change. The verified change consisted of the merger of ÚOOZ and ÚOKFK into the National Centre for the Fighting of Organized Crime, which established the so-called roof management structure: the Director - Deputys - Section Directors. ÚOOZ and ÚOKFK departments responsible for the investigation and investigation of crime have been classified under individual sections without any change in the scope of activity. According to police President Tomáš Tuhý and his former Deputy Minister Zdeněk Laube, this change was intended to allow for a more flexible response from the department to the development of crime and to carry out further organizational steps in them, if necessary, including specifying or changing the scope of the activities of the various sections. The directors of the departments concerned were informed of the change in the second half of May 2016. There was no record of the introduction. At the end of May 2016, the representatives of the State Attorney General were not familiar with it until the end of May 2016, i.e. just before sending the reporter to the Minister of the Interior. This reporter was sent on 31 May 2016. Tomáš Tuhý and Zdeněk Laube's decision to merge both departments under a unified leadership was presented as final and constant. The discussion of the specific effects of the change on the communication between NCOZ and the prosecutors and the continuity of ongoing criminal proceedings began after the organizational change was mediated. Conceptual or strategic materials, processed under the responsibility of the current Police President, do not deal with or mention the merger of units with national competence. The representatives of the Police Presidium did not have any actual and detailed analyses or statistics to support the reasons presented by them in connection with the proposal for a change. Representatives of the Police Presidium refer to strategic and conceptual materials from previous periods, which date back to 1993, as mentioned in the 2007 materials submitted to the Commission. These documents refer in various variants to the possibility of merging departments. The arguments for the organizational change examined are essentially taken from these documents. Not in all materials, however, the merger of the departments was considered an appropriate solution. However, the absence of analysis does not automatically mean that the arguments put forward were incorrect. National units could, according to internal police regulations, investigate, or investigate acts which were not within their competence regulated by an internal act of procedure. According to the same instruction, there was also always the possibility of not inserting documents in a specific criminal case into the electronic criminal proceedings system known in the abbreviation ETŘ. This could have led to situations which are generally mentioned in the reasons for the change. [[9.10 hours]] The Celorepubliko services are managed by the Deputy Police President for SKPV, who is subordinate to the Police President and needs certain information on ongoing criminal proceedings in order to carry out his activities. On the basis of the evidence collected, it can be concluded that the change took place in order to have a unified overview of the ongoing criminal proceedings. However, it cannot be imported that such information should be transmitted to unauthorised persons. The Commission also repeatedly noted in the witness statement that there was insufficient communication between the two departments, in particular between their directors, and that there was even some screaming between the ÚOOZ authorities and the ÚOKFK. However, this situation has never been addressed in a disciplinary manner by a superior by Deputy Police President Zdeněk Laube. It also remained without prejudice to alleged circumvention or non-compliance under internal procedural acts. On the contrary, the leaders of these departments received high rewards for their work, confirming that they were satisfied with their work to a certain point of time, and it could give the impression that they were doing everything right. At the level of the state prosecutor, the Police of the Czech Republic, but there is no uniform legal opinion between individual police officers on the scope of sharing information from criminal proceedings within the management structure of the Police of the Czech Republic. In general, it is considered that a superior officer is entitled to know what he needs to carry out his duties in connection with his responsibility for the activities of subordinate services. But perception of the extent of the information needed is different. The Supreme Prosecutor of Olomouc relied on the verification of the change, or the interrogation of Tomáš Tuhý and Zdeněk Laube and his further procedure in connection with the change in information from several criminal matters conducted by him. In particular, these were the conclusions drawn from the wiretaps submitted to the Commission for information obtained in the context of the investigation of the VIDKUN case and the information obtained in the context of the alleged leak of the implementation information at TESCO SW. The former member of ÚOOZ Jiří Komárek and former director of ÚOOZ Robert Šlachta, who publicly criticized the organizational change, referred to some of these materials. The Supreme Prosecutor's Office in Olomouc subsequently presented the conclusions made to the Supreme Prosecutor's Office and the Minister of Justice. They took over, and in a similar way they also commented on organizational change. Since, according to Ivo Ištvan, his deputy, Pavel Komár, Robert Šlachta and Jiří Komárek, the above-mentioned files contained information which had to question the legitimate purpose of the change, the information in which the Commission of inquiry referred to them was addressed to the extent that it had been presented in the context of the interrogations carried out. It has not been demonstrated from the materials collected that the organisational change has been made in order to remove Robert Šlachta, limit the activities of the entire republical departments or prevent the investigation of specific criminal matters. [[including in the media mentioned in the Beretta case]] The organizational change within the department is not in conversations that form part of the "Basic material for hearings before the Security Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic" of 22. 6. 2016, and in the interviews forwarded to the Commission of Investigation the prosecutors in Olomouc were dealt with at all. [[so-called Schlacht Report]] They only address the possible emergence of the TEMPUS 2 team and the inclusion of cybercrime issues in the ÚOOZ. At the same time, it is important to point out that Robert Šlachta was offered a position in the same grade in the newly emerging NCOZ on 9 June 2016. Robert Šlachta did not accept this offer, stating that he did not want to participate in the formation of the new department. In interviews in the VIDKUN case, which were submitted to the Commission of Investigation as relevant, the end of Robert Šlachta is not associated with Zdeněk Laube or TomáTomáš Tuhý wanting to get rid of him. Speaking persons speculate about its end in the context that they themselves consider the procedure of the ÚOOZ in the case of Nagyová and spol. for failure, and partly with Robert Šlachta, or ÚOOZ, saying, perhaps not giving information to someone and perhaps to someone. What information and who, in particular, is not addressed in it. With Robert Šlachta and Jiří Komárek quit their service to the Police of the Czech Republic before the official beginning of the reorganisation, they did not allow the practical verification of the claim that someone wanted to get rid of them by reorganisation. In the submitted transcripts, former Deputy Director of the Regional Police Directorate of the Olomouc Region, Karel Kadlec, who received information from other police officers that he should not have had access to due to his official classification. Policemen provided him with this information on the basis of their mutual good personal relationship or other reasons. This information was subsequently transmitted by Karel Kadlec to businessman Ivan Kyselý. The matter continues to be investigated by law enforcement authorities. Karel Kadlec and Ivan Kyselý also evaluate other police officers in mutual conversations. Among other things, they assume that every cop who is placed in a higher position gives someone information and is controlled by someone. In this sense, they both speak of Robert Šlachta, Zdeněk Laub, Tomáš tuhý, former director Libor Krejčiřík and others. They do so without knowing if this is really happening. They only suspect, assume, or from their talks it is not possible to reason when, in what cases and to what extent this should be done. Although some parts of the conversations captured are speculative in nature, calls as a whole cannot be completely ignored. Although they do not have any link to the organizational change being investigated, they point to the faulty conduct of the talking people. As one of the reasons for the change, the alleged existence of data leaking from criminal proceedings by police President TomáTomáš Tuhý was reported in the public space. [[This is related to criminal proceedings concerning alleged leak of information in the case of TESCO SW, which was supervised by the Supreme Prosecutor in Olomouc]] This suggested, in particular, the public statement by Jiří Komárek about the suspicion of a brutal leak of information by Tomáš Tuhý. Before the commission of inquiry, Jiří Komárek initially stated that his statement was based on an evaluation of the wiretap from the VIDKUN case, specifically referring to the so-called Šlachtův report. However, these wiretappings do not confirm Komárkův's claim. The specific conversation that Komárek referred to was 21. 10. This is before Tomáš Tuhý appeared in the file of the General Inspectorate of the Security Corps. At the time of the interview, the investigation of possible leaks was only at the beginning. The complaint was sent to GIBS 6. 10. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 10. 2014, this is the day after the said interview, GIBS asks the ÚOKFK to complete the notification. This means that at the time of the interview, none of the participants could have known any possible connection between Tomáš Tuhý or the Police Presidium with the leak of information about the implementation. TomáTomáš Tuhý's possible connection to the leak of information in the case of TESCO SW was informed by Jiří Komárek from the State Attorney General in Olomouc Petr Šereda, who provided him with a transcript of the GIBS resolution on postpone the matter with incorrect conclusions for a few days between 10 June and 20 June 2016. Jiří Komárek did not state this fact during his second interrogation on the basis of a direct question, on the basis of which he formulated his statement, when he stated that he was based solely on wiretapping in the case of VIDKUN. He admitted that the transcript was available only during the third interrogation after a direct question had been asked again. The transcript created by the VSZ in Olomouc was subsequently published by the National Fund against Corruption. Based on the evidence collected by the Commission of inquiry, it can be concluded that only Jiří Komárek or someone from the Supreme Prosecutor's Office in Olomouc could mediate the transcription of the resolution. The matter is currently being investigated by law enforcement authorities. It can be concluded that the verification of the leak of information about possible implementation in the TESCO SW was legitimate. However, it cannot be confirmed that TomáTomáš Tuhý has committed a leak or that he is suspected of leaking it. Some of the facts set out in the GIBS resolution on the postponement of the case were incorrect. No warning SMS was sent to the businessman David Tesařík from the 312 phone number. David Tesařík evidently knew something, but only sent a request for any details on the fact that someone should come for someone if the addressee knows them. On the other hand, it must be objectively stated that the communication with 312 took place and David Tesařík wanted to obtain some information from her. The subsequent insertion of the SIM card by the former wife of the Police President's official into one of the phones with which the phone number with the term 312 communicated was in no way explained. Moreover, none of the relevant phones were ever found in relation to the Police Presidium official or his family members. The matter is under review by law enforcement authorities. [[9.20 hours]] Data on the direction of communication were wrongly evaluated by a GIBS member - file processor - Milan Vaculík. He accepted it himself before the committee of inquiry. On the basis of the evidence available to the Commission of inquiry, it cannot be demonstrated that it acted intentionally, but it cannot be excluded that it acted negligently and therefore the Commission decided to file a criminal report. The Supreme Prosecutor in Olomouc has failed as a supervisory authority in this, as he also overlooked the error. In addition, a minimum careless approach has allowed the erroneous resolution and its other interpretations to become part of the public space. The investigation of the alleged leak of information cannot be linked to the organizational change being investigated, since GIBS is an independent independent security body to the police and therefore the organizational change in this case has no effect. Given that the Commission of Investigation has not found any other information to indicate the leaks of information by the Police President, such a hypothesis cannot be confirmed. Jiří Komárek's subsequent statement on the "brutal leak of information" by the police president was essential for the organizational change being investigated. His procedure is currently being investigated by law enforcement authorities. Finally, it can be concluded that the materials collected by the Commission of inquiry do not imply that Tomáš Tuhý or Zdeněk Laube have adversely affected the ongoing criminal proceedings or that they have unlawfully obtained information from criminal proceedings or have tried to do so. The materials collected also do not imply that Tomáš Tuhý and Zdeněk Laube provide certain information from ongoing criminal proceedings to unauthorised persons. In its activities, the Commission has established that most of the information submitted comes from wiretaps whose credibility cannot be confirmed by other acts obtained under the Code of Criminal Procedure. As part of its activities, it also received material from GIBS, which shows that in the said, with the organisational change of unrelated cases investigated by the ÚOOZ, the law enforcement authorities "satisfied" with the request of acts under Section 88 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, that is to say, wiretapping and recording of telecommunications traffic, and no other means that allow the criminal code and available technical means had to be used, although it had to be clear from previous experience that the necessary means of proof were not likely to be obtained by the actions carried out. In some cases, the information obtained has not been objectively assessed, e.g. were not verified from other information sources. With regard to the impact of the change on individual cases or on the operation of individual NCOS sections, it is not possible to evaluate clearly at the moment due to the short existence of a new structure. However, according to the information sent by NCOZ in September 2016, the number of police officers who left in connection with the change was in the order of units. In particular, five police officers left the NCOZ, another police officer in connection with the formation of NCOZ requested the termination of the service at 30. 9. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 10. 2016. Similarly, in the order of units, the number of members who had ceased their service at that time without giving reasons. Police President Tuhý, Deputy Police President Laube and Interior Minister Milan Chovanec in interrogations denied that the relevant organizational measures were prepared and implemented on the basis of a political assignment. Tuhý and Laube categorically rejected speculation that they were under the alleged pressure of people from the political and business environment to remove Robert Šlacha from the head of the ÚOOZ. Those speculations were not demonstrated in the interrogation of other witnesses or in the available written documents. None of the members of the government made a motion for a government resolution in a decisive period that would impose on the Minister of the Interior Chovanc a delay, suspension or ban the execution of a police reorganisation. This is where the actual part ends. Before I go into the final evaluation, I would warn you that I have been communicating with the prosecutors, and as far as the evaluation of the changes is concerned, there is basically no way to do this sooner than about a year after they have been introduced. That means that it's not the fault of the commission, but even prosecutors, it just can't be evaluated right now. I suppose sometime in the summer, if the prosecutors want to comment on this, but they can't now either, because there is simply and well no basis for such an assessment to exist. Final evaluation. The implementation of organizational changes within the Czech Police services is fully in the shared competence of the Police President and the Minister of the Interior. The Law does not impose that such a change should be negotiated with other entities. However, preliminary factual consultations at least at the level of the management of the departments concerned and the prosecutors' offices would be appropriate and desirable. The key question is why the organisational change was implemented without prior notice, in a relatively short time and why it was not discussed in detail across the departments concerned, with experts and with the prosecutor and why the intention of the amendments was not discussed with the Security Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic before the reporter was referred for approval. Both Tuhý and Laube agree that they have acted this way because this is not a fundamental change, but only a preparation for further major changes that will be discussed. Both could actually plan that it would be enough to discuss everything within one month, however this plan subsequently thwarted the mediation of their intention and attitude, respectively. activities of prosecutors in Olomouc Robert Šlachta, Jiří Komárek and public reactions. Given the nature of the activity of the two units merged and taking into account the persons and the environment affected by the organisational change, it can be noted that this was not a minor change. Its preparation was greatly underestimated by Laube and Tuhý and was under-negotiated with the entities concerned. This testifies to the lack of management by former Deputy Police President Zdeněk Laube. The form of change made possible enabled speculation about its hidden purpose, i.e. "remove' means Robert Šlachta, restrict the activities of the IOOZ, prevent the investigation of specific criminal matters, the interest to transmit information from criminal proceedings to unauthorised persons. [[speed and minimum consultation with other bodies to be touched]] These speculations were not confirmed. Nor was speculation shown that the measure was allegedly implemented under political pressure and on the basis of a political assignment to remove Robert Šlachta from the head of the ÚOOZ. It can be concluded from witness interviews conducted and other collected evidence that the aim was to obtain an overview of the activities of individual organisational units incorporated into NCOZ, to fulfil the planned plan for several years and to create an organisational structure similar to that of foreign police forces. This can be considered completely legitimate. Some speculations were publicly commented or supported by former members of ÚOOZ Jiří Komárek and Robert Šlachta. Both were based on the findings found in ongoing criminal proceedings, in particular in the development of the VIDKUN case. Based on the materials collected, it can be concluded that the opinions or intentions presented by them were based on an inaccurate interpretation of the conversations of different persons. This interpretation was subsequently taken over and supported by prosecutors in Olomouc. This information was also based on the Supreme Prosecutor's Office and, in general, also the Minister of Justice. In addition, Jiří Komárek publicly presented an opinion which was not supported by the information he could obtain in connection with the case he had been processed. The GIBS resolution with incorrect conclusions was made available to him by the prosecutor of the State Attorney General in Olomouc, Petr Šereda. Both members of the former ÚOOZ publicly and before the commission of inquiry presented distrust in the management of the Police of the Czech Republic, based on inaccurate information. It is evident from the interviews conducted that this mistrust led to the interpretation of some of Tomáš Tuhý and Zdeněk Laube's described investigation boards other than what they might have meant. This mistrust also significantly affected their practice in the context of organizational change. In the Security Board, whose activities are based on the principle of subjection and superiority, individual members of the decisions of their superiors should respect or make comments in the context of service, not publicly demonstrate distrust of the decision or its author. [[the exception is only an order for the commission of a criminal offence]] Both also presented or commented on information they had learned in or in connection with the service, i.e. information for which they may have been bound by the obligation of professional secrecy laid down in the Service Act. In this light, the public appearance of Robert Šlachta and Jiří Komárek in connection with organizational change can be seen as unprofessional. [[9.30 hours]] The Government of the Czech Republic is fully responsible for the activities, internal and external, Police of the Czech Republic and the Public Prosecutors' Office as the supreme body of executive power. According to Article 21 of Law No. 2/1969 Sb. The Ministry must also comply with the resolution of the Government of the Czech Republic in its activities. Although the government crisis itself was triggered by some members of the government, neither of them made a proposal for a government resolution to regulate the Interior Minister's change in police services with national competence. This was the only possible effective legal means of preventing the planned reorganisation of police forces if some ministers really wanted to prevent it. Thus, the Government did not adopt or deal with any resolution of this type. With public statements alone, individual ministers sharpened the conflict within the government and between public authorities. However, they resigned from the constitutional solution without even explaining it to the committee of inquiry. That, too, was why the Chamber of Deputies, the legislative authority, had to deal with the matter. On 5 January 2017, Deputy State Attorney General in Prague, Adam Bašný Bašný that - and now I quote - "after a careful evaluation of the materials involved in alleged criminal activity related to the reorganisation within the police, a decision was made in the second half of last November to establish the case without further action, as it is not possible to see the suspicion of committing the crime" - the quote ends. Among other things, the State Attorney General in Prague concluded that the criminal complaint of Jiří Komárek concerning the reorganisation of the Police of the Czech Republic was found to be unfounded. Escapes of information obtained during criminal preparatory proceedings, in particular leaks of parts of specific wiretaps, and their subsequent mediaisation is a phenomenon that accompanied both organizational change and subsequent activities of the investigative commission. Some information was publicly commented or presented in particular by Jiří Komárek, Pavel Komár, Robert Šlachta and Ivo Ištvan. Despite the generality or indeterminateness of expression, their activities have led to an increase in the reliability of the information that has proved misleading or false in the conduct of the commission of inquiry. This is contrary to the principles of criminal proceedings, such as the principle of restraint, the principle of non-publicity of the preparatory procedure and the principle of presumption of innocence. In contrast to these principles, the procedure of Pavel Komár, who published an interest in the VS in Olomouc to hear, in connection with the change of Tomáš Tuhý and Zdeněk Laube - was brought on him for this obsession - the procedure of Petr Šereda, who gave without obvious legal title a transcription of the resolution of GBIS to Jiří Komárek - which is also being investigated by the law enforcement authorities - the procedure of Jiří Komárek, who publicly spoke with his claim about the "brutal leak of information" from criminal proceedings by the police president - also examines the authorities involved in criminal proceedings - in conjunction with medialation of inaccurately interpreted or false information, such as the publication of the GIBS resolution by the National Fund against corruption or publication of parts of so-called. Sailor's messages. The impact of organizational change on ongoing criminal proceedings cannot yet be reasonably assessed. The way in which it was implemented could have led, and also led, some members to apply for dismissal from the service, while at the same time uncertain about the future functioning of the new department and the reasons for the amendment itself. However, Jiří Komárek and Robert Šlachta's positions and public self-representation, the VSZ procedure in Olomouc, leaks and media interpretation of information from criminal proceedings of mistrust in the organizational change made and associated negative impacts deepened. On the part of the prosecutors, as one of the most important arguments against the merging of departments, concerns about the concentration of information within one department and their possible leak to unauthorised persons are presented. This concern could probably be distracted if there was a clearly set system for sharing information from criminal proceedings within the structure of the Police of the Czech Republic, for example by means of an internal act of management, as it can be agreed that the greater the circle is familiar with certain information, the greater the risk of leaking it. At present, such an adjustment is not within the police, or based on the principle of superiority and subjection without specification of the extent of shared information, and opinions on the scope of information sharing vary. Setting up the organizational structure and information sharing system is fully under the responsibility of the Police of the Czech Republic. In order to fulfil the purpose of criminal proceedings, it is necessary to cooperate seamlessly between police officers and prosecutors and police officers. This cooperation clearly does not support the public questioning of the activities of certain services of the Police of the Czech Republic, or public presentations of distrust in their activities or in the activity of specific police officers, which occurred in the context of the comments. Now, I would like to move on to the annex, these are the resolution of the committee of inquiry. In the course of its activities, the commission of inquiry adopted a total of 46 resolutions, of which the most important for the purposes of the final report was: On 11 July, the Commission decided that witness interviews would be carried out during its activities by persons who were then heard. Order of 11. 7. The Commission has decided that its next meetings will be private. Order of 31. 8. 2016. The Commission considers the constant leaks of information concerning the organisational change of the ÚOOZ and ÚOKFK police services to be very serious as they fundamentally undermine the credibility of the Commission's work. The mediation of sensitive information undermines the maximum objectivity and impartiality of the Commission in the eyes of the public. The Commission requires the President of the Commission, Pavel Blažek, to discuss these leaks of information with the Supreme Prosecutor and the Director of GIBS in order to investigate and prevent leaks of information from criminal files in the future. By order of 8. 9. 2016 At the express request of Jiří Komárek, the Commission decided to suspend his interrogation and postpone his completion for an unspecified period of time. 15. The 9th Commission noted that some claims so far made in the media by a former police officer of the ÚOOZ Col. Komárek in matters of organizational changes in the Police of the Czech Republic do not have a conclusive character. No direct evidence has been submitted to the Commission confirming its media expression in relation to specific persons and institutions. The Commission is opposed to the allegations that the source of information provided in some media comes from the Commission's environment. On 19 January this year, the Commission decided that the discussion of the Commission's final report in the Chamber of Deputies would be public. By order of 30 January 2017, this means from this Monday, the Commission decided to submit, through its President, the State Attorney General in Prague, a notification of the facts suggesting that the alleged disclosure of the planned police action by means of a SMS report could have taken place by the delegated authority of GBIS Mgr Milan Vaculík to commit a crime of obstruction of the task of an official of negligence under Section 330 of the Criminal Code. Order No 44 also from this Monday, the Commission decided to submit a notice to the Supreme Prosecutor in Prague about the facts suggesting that in handling the file č. GI-TC-601-146/2014 at the Supreme Attorney General's Office in Olomouc could have come from the State's Attorney Mgr Petr Šereda committed a crime resulting in an illegal leak of information. On 30 January this year, the Commission also adopted the following resolution, including their justification. These resolutions, adopted at the end of the Commission's work, should also be seen as an integral part of the outcome of its investigation. The Commission has therefore decided not only to remain in the description of the past or present situation, but to try to initiate some steps to improve it, and therefore proposes to the Chamber of Deputies the adoption of the resolutions below. [[9.40 hours]] Resolution No 41. The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to consider, within its constitutional responsibility for the State Prosecutor's activities, whether a disciplinary action brought by the Supreme Prosecutor is sufficient to ensure legality in the activities of the Supreme Prosecutor in Olomouc, or whether further measures are not necessary, including personnel measures. I will read the reasons for this resolution: The investigating committee has found out from its activities and the submissions received about the infringement of the law in the activities of the Supreme Prosecutor in Olomouc, committed by its prosecutors who have not prevented the infringement of the law in the context of the control activity - supervision and internal supervision. By mediating the circumstances of police reform, the high prosecutor in Olomouc has actively entered into political life. The media entry was not justified when the verification itself was based on unverified and false information, including confusion of the concept of sender and SMS recipient. He also concluded from the error that the Supreme Attorney General, who submitted to the State Attorney JUDr. Pavel Komár is pressing charges. The State Attorney's office is an executive authority and the Government is the supreme executive authority. In doing so, the Government shall be responsible to the Chamber of Deputies for the exercise of executive powers as a whole, with the exception of the President of the Republic. It is therefore in the constitutional logic that the Chamber of Deputies should ask the Government to ensure consistent legality within the framework of executive powers, if a violation of the law is found. A staffing measure is also possible, which may be implemented primarily by the Minister of Justice in cooperation with the Supreme Prosecutor. These personnel measures are not related to the state's attorney's office, but only to senior positions. So many resolutions 41. Now resolution 42. It's the committee's proposal again to... The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to submit within three months a bill containing: 1. A change to the Criminal Code in such a way that the supervision of the maintenance of legality in criminal preparatory proceedings is not carried out by a prosecutor in so far as criminal offences are concerned, where the suspect and accused are a prosecutor or former prosecutor who has committed them in the performance of his duties or in connection with the performance of his duties as a prosecutor, and, where appropriate, to amend the relevant provisions on the representation of the criminal prosecution in court if the defendant is a prosecutor or former prosecutor and is a criminal offence committed in the performance of his duties. 2. The amendment of the Penal Code so that the limitation period does not run in the event of a criminal offence of abuse of authority by a senior prosecutor or his deputy while they are in charge of the prosecutor's office. Justification: The proposed legislation is based on the same approach which led to the establishment of a General Inspection of Security Corps as an office separated from the police and other security forces, so that investigations of criminal offences should be freed from undesirable collegiality and personal ties within a single body. Therefore, neither police officers nor other inspection members but prosecutors who have the status of police authority are investigating the members of the General Inspection of Security Corps itself. Similarly, undesirable personal ties may affect the assessment of acts committed by prosecutors in the performance of duties which have the characteristics of a criminal offence, but due to mutual collegiateness, other prosecutors are assessed favorably for their colleagues. The prosecutor has great power in criminal proceedings, which must be linked in a democratic rule of law to a responsibility that cannot be undermined by state cohesion and personal friendly ties. The role of the supervision of legality in the preparatory procedure in such a case may be played by an independent body, which may also be a court. This will be an exceptional role, as is the exceptional position of the state's attorney's police authority in the investigation of crimes committed by members of the General Inspection of Security Corps. There would be a limited renewal of the institute of investigating judges who previously worked in the territory of Bohemia, Moravia and Silesia. However, the government can do things differently, which is on its consideration. The aim is not to restore the investigating judge but to strengthen objectivity in clarifying the criminal activity of prosecutors, especially in acts committed in connection with the exercise of their official authority. A change in the limitation period for abuse of power is also required in cases where the lead prosecutor is in charge and can therefore effectively impede the clarification of his criminal activity at the stage of the investigation. So many resolutions number 42. And now, on the last proposed resolution, and that is resolution 43, when the Commission, in turn, proposes that the Chamber of Deputies ask the Government to submit a draft law to it within three months, which will contain a change to the Code of Criminal Procedure, so that the authority of the prosecutor is dismissed to order that acts in the matter be carried out by another person serving in the police authority, and that the authority of the State Attorney personally executes individual acts of criminal proceedings or even the entire investigation instead of the police authority. Reason: At the hearing of the commission of inquiry, it became clear that the prosecutors normally interfere with who, specifically within the framework of the police department, will be involved in what agenda and with whom they can cooperate within the department, who they may inform about their activities within the department, etc. It also became clear that some prosecutors actively carry out various criminal proceedings in the preparatory procedure instead of focusing on the exercise of legal oversight in the preparatory procedure. According to the law, both prosecutors and police authorities are obliged to organise their activities in such a way as to contribute effectively to the timelyness and fairness of criminal prosecutions. The prosecutor may order the police authority to carry out such acts which it is entitled to carry out and which are necessary to clarify the matter. The prosecutor shall also be entitled to withdraw any matter from the police authority and to take measures to order another body. However, the police authority is not an individual police officer, but the entire police department, and therefore its supervisor is the person responsible for organising the activities of the department, to the extent of all rights and obligations. Attorneys' orders that only one officer specifically designated by them may deal with a particular matter and that other police officers may not inform such a designated officer of any of the matters under consideration are therefore contrary to the purpose of the law and the will of the legislator. Given that the legislation in force is being circumvented and abused by prosecutors for a purpose which actually complicates the police investigation, it is proposed that an authorisation of a prosecutor be withdrawn from the criminal code, which allows him to order another person to carry out acts of service in a police authority. Deciding which particular police officer or team in the department will deal with the matter will thus remain the sole responsibility of the relevant head of police department. At present, state prosecutors are authorised to carry out a single operation or an investigation in person and to issue a decision in any case, acting in accordance with the provisions of this law for the police authority. This provision is non-systemic and prosecutors are thus entitled to conduct such criminal proceedings for which they have no equipment, education or training. At the same time, that provision objectively complicates the ability of prosecutors to properly exercise independent supervision of legality in the preparatory procedure. Therefore, in order to clearly divide the roles between the police and the prosecutors to control them, it is also proposed to delete this provision from the penal code. Finally, let me stress that the scope of the Commission's work has been determined by the Chamber of Deputies, not by the commission of inquiry. In principle, two things were asked of the Commission - what was going on around the reorganisation, and what was happening in the organisation in the activities of the State Attorney's Office in Olomouc. I want to stress that, as far as the first part is concerned, something different is the views of the individual members of the committee, as I'm sure many of you will hear, and the second thing is what has been proven from what has been available, i.e. interrogation, wiretaps and stuff. I have read - and I am stressing this again that the commission of inquiry must prove things and must prove them so that if we label someone that they have committed something, then the House will stand a possible lawsuit of those affected. At that first stage, I stress, neither the prosecutors nor the commission could prove that the police reorganisation was somehow prepared from behind, whether business or political, nor that there was any crime committed. I stress that this does not mean that, for example, the chairman of the Commission has some commendation for what is happening in the police. And that's two different things. And I beg you to try to distinguish this in the discussion. As far as Olomouc is concerned, it has simply been demonstrated that Olomouc prosecutors have actively embarked on public life in the context of the government crisis. And I am already saying that for myself, law enforcement agencies, including prosecutors, can only do that, according to the valid Czech Constitution, which the law allows them to do. There is no law that allows prosecutors to enter the government crisis in any way. The way in which they are to proceed is governed by appropriate laws. And the fact that they have proved to be tampering with a file that we're not supposed to be handling in Olomouc, and that's where it just proved to be, well, that's where the criminal complaint we filed is headed to this point. [[9.50 hours]] I stress that as far as possible criminal activity is concerned, for example, Mr Tuhý, Mr Laube, Mr Komárek and others, the commission may have thought that there might also have been some illegal conduct, but they have already given each other a criminal complaint, which means it was completely unnecessary for the commission to add further criminal charges, whether on Tuhý, Laube or on Mr Komárek. I would conclude here that this is another description of the June tragedy, where police officers make a public complaint against the police president, the police president on them, and it shows really bad relations and a bad state of the Police of the Czech Republic in this context. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-001-297.u5	I thank the President for the final report submitted. I now ask the rapporteur of the committee of inquiry, Mr Martin Lank, to take the floor. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-001-297.u6	Good morning to you, too. I have little to add here because President Blažek has practically said everything. As has already been said here, the final report has been approved unanimously by our Commission. I'll just allow myself a very brief summary. As part of the investigation, we interviewed 21 witnesses and only their statements took 64 hours. We have a total of 4,128 pages of various documents, whether they are statements from witnesses, documents that we have requested from the police or prosecutors, but also submissions that we have received from citizens - the submission was about 57. The final report can be summarised briefly as follows. Organizational change is fully within the competence of the police president and the Home Secretary. Some people may not like it, but they do. The fact is, however, that, from our point of view, the management of the police has fundamentally underestimated the communication of the upcoming changes, both in the direction of the police and in the direction of the public. This has also opened up room for speculation about the reasons for reorganization and for politicizing the whole thing, sometimes quite unchoosy. However, it should be added that these speculations remained only in the level of speculation and the claim against the claim. No party could produce convincing and clear evidence in support of these speculations. Personally, I am glad that at least managed to disprove the allegations of brutal leaks of information from the top police leadership and have managed to uncover things that clearly need to be corrected or improved. That should also be the point of our resolution, which we will present to you immediately, or Mr Blažek has already tabled. How the police will work under a new roof, however, at least for me it still remains with a question mark. And we'll probably never know if organizational change has had any major impact on the investigation of serious crime. Because we can only evaluate things that will happen, not things that may ever happen. Finally, let me thank both President Blažek and all the members of the committee of inquiry for the fact that our actions were very serious, very serious and we managed to keep them almost entirely out of the political plane, because, in my humble opinion, as far as the police are concerned, politics does not belong there. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-001-297.u7	Thank you. With the addition of the President of the Commission. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-001-297.u8	I just formally forgot to thank you. I'll have to join you later. And perhaps, in order for the situation not to be so serious, I would say, working on the committee may have been healthier than the minister's work. Thank you to all parties for sending out the very representatives you sent out, because originally the composition, I was warned differently that it would be difficult and so on. I want to thank my colleagues that the debates were material. And I will smile, and you will understand that I will simply miss conversations between, for example, Mr Kort and Mr Chalupa. I'm going to miss the interviews between my colleague Dolejš and my colleague Chalupa. I'm gonna miss Bartoškův's diary, sometimes I'm gonna tell you what Bartoškův's diary was. I'm going to miss a particularly unbiased view of my colleague, Lank, who sometimes wondered what everything had to listen to in there. And, of course, I cannot miss the rare interviews of two participants from Wenceslas Square in 1989, and these are the interviews of Mr Ondráček and Mr Kort. [[Glee in the hall.]] I gotta say, you're really gonna miss this. But I, fortunately, must say, am no longer chairman of the commission. And if only we could have a possible debate today in such a factual spirit, although I understand that what happened around the police had a political dimension. We are the political body of this state, so this dimension will be. But please understand that the committee of inquiry can only write what it can prove. I would like to emphasise this to all those discussing in advance. We were just able to prove what you had in the report. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-001-297.u9	I thank the President, Mr Blažek. And now, on the basis of the agreement of the Presidents of the Members' Clubs, I am interrupting the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies for the meeting of the various Members' Clubs. Meet me here in an hour at 10.55. I'm interrupting the House meeting by 10.55pm.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-001-297.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, the time has passed for a meeting of the various Members' Clubs, so we will continue, and so this is a point
