ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-20-ps2017-001-01-005-005.u1	5. Announcement of time limits for the submission of proposals to members of the mandate and immunity committee and candidates for the President, Vice-President and verifier of the Chamber of Deputies I ask that Mr President of the Election Commission, Mr Martin Kolovratník, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-20-ps2017-001-01-005-005.u2	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I advise my colleagues that this is the last point in this part of the meeting today. At our first meeting on 15 November, we adopted resolution number 5 setting deadlines for the submission of proposals to the members of the mandate and immunity committee, as well as candidates for the President of the Chamber of Deputies and the verifier of the Chamber of Deputies. Please take good care for the presidents of the parliamentary clubs, respectively. Your secretaries - that deadline is today until 5:00 p.m. I therefore ask that individual clubs submit their proposals. We take note of the deal, virtually. Now, the last vote that the mandate and immunity committee will have 19 members, and therefore, according to the relative representation table, please put forward their proposals to the parliamentary clubs' electoral committee. What's the timetable? We will be sitting today at 6:00 p.m., adopting a resolution on the electoral committee. There must be a 24-hour deadline between the committee itself and the choice, so I assume that the choice itself will be possible not on Tuesday night, but on Wednesday. Maybe I'll do the math again -- I'm sorry, I'll get my background. [[It's happening.]] So, after the debate and the agreement that we have reached, that is to say the following. The ANO movement will nominate 8 Members, newly established Democratic bloc 5 Members, Pirates 2, SPD 2, KSČM one and ČSSD one representative to the mandate and immunity committee. That's how the numbers come out now. At the same time, I would like to ask... to recall, I am sorry, resolution No. 5 Election Commissions, where - I must say this for the tapestry - we instruct the Secretary of the Commission, Mrs Václavíková, to accept all nominations from the parliamentary clubs on behalf of the electoral committee and subsequently inform the members of the MPs about them. So even tonight, when the committee meeting is over, you will receive the information as to what the proposals look like. At the same time, the electoral commission agreed that the secretary could be present in the polling room at the time of the secret elections and in the processing of their results. And one more important piece of information from me. We, colleagues, have agreed on the electoral committee that, at this time at 17 o'clock, we have a deadline for proposals for the President of the Chamber of Deputies, the mandate and immunity committee and the verifier of the Chamber of Deputies. And given how the practice was four years ago, I was looking at the tapestry, at the same time we announced a proposal for nominations for Vice-Presidents of the Chamber of Deputies at the same time. In fact, I say that there was no agreement on the committee that we didn't declare the deadline, but after today's debate and even after we assume that the meeting would look like that, I would like to declare this deadline at this point. I would therefore like to declare the commission and give you consideration of the motion to submit a deadline to the Vice-Presidents of the Chamber of Deputies, today within 17 hours. Only perhaps an explanation - if we didn't do it today, the deadline will be announced on Wednesday and the election of Vice-Presidents would stretch until Friday this week. If we make it today, we can elect Vice-Presidents on Wednesday after the election. I know, I have an up-to-date reaction that colleagues won't all agree. Perhaps I want to say for myself that even though we don't know at this point, we don't know the number of Vice-Presidents it's going to look like, so nominations can, of course, be filed, the list of names could theoretically be bigger. Depending on how we reach an agreement, how we decide on Wednesday, then the ballots will be prepared for you. This means that whether the number of Vice-Presidents would be one, second or third number, we will always choose from all the proposals that will be submitted and only the number that the House will decide on. That means, technically, there is no problem, and I would like to announce the deadline for the Vice-President also at this time within 17 hours. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-20-ps2017-001-01-005-005.u3	Mr Stanjura, then Mr Munzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-20-ps2017-001-01-005-005.u4	Well, I'd like to be listened to by Mr. Kolovratník. Either we have a commission, or we cancel it, and you decide everything on your own. I got information as club president last week, where the deadline was comfortable for the club, about five days, to give nominations. That deadline ends in 75 minutes. And at this point, you're saying that we have 75 minutes to call the clubs, make nominations because you're in a hurry. You would have to, dear Mr President, first convene the electoral committee, change your resolution, and then declare a normal human deadline - not in minutes! I don't know how you even figured out that you guys could come in and say without a deal... The commission's deal was completely different. And you're changing it - now only 74 minutes before the deadline. That you didn't say by 16 that we would write it quickly and hand it over to you right here in the O.R.! I, Mr President, object to this because it is not possible. Either we have an authority here, a parliamentary committee that decides on something, decides by vote, or then whenever the President of the Election Commission comes in and says, "It's all different, I'm in a hurry, I don't want to be here on Friday, so let's do it now quickly, in five hours. This can't be happening!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-20-ps2017-001-01-005-005.u5	Before I give the floor to the next logged in, I'll try to simplify it. In the meantime, I've consulted the legislation. Indeed, the electoral commission's resolution does not contain an election deadline for the Vice-Presidents of the House and without the electoral commission deciding on the deadline, it is not possible to declare the deadline. This means that I am of the opinion that it is now possible to declare what is contained in the resolution of the electoral committee, that is to say, proposals for members of the mandate and immunity committee, candidates for chairman and verifiers. If the Commission wanted to announce the time limits for the Vice-Presidents, we would have to interrupt the meeting now, the committee would have to meet and declare the time limits. That's the only possible solution. If this is not the case, it is possible to declare only these deadlines. But I'll have everyone logged in if they insist on their performances. Mr. Munzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-20-ps2017-001-01-005-005.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, it is not true that we have not agreed on an election committee. There was quite a debate on the electoral committee and, on the contrary, the electoral committee, Mr President of the electoral committee through Mr President, agreed that only nominations will be made for the chairman, the minutes verifier and committee members. That means it's not true that the electoral commission didn't agree to do so. On the contrary, it has agreed, the result of this agreement is a resolution. And I would object to this proposal appearing here on behalf of the electoral committee. I think he can be a member of the MP's club, but not the electoral committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-20-ps2017-001-01-005-005.u7	Mr. Výborný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-20-ps2017-001-01-005-005.u8	Mr President, my dear fellow Members, as a member of the electoral committee, I must say that I have been in this honourable House for less than three hours and I am not surprised. So exactly what my previous speaker said is true. And I don't understand why we should have an election committee. So let's cancel it, let's let the electoral commission be equal to Collo-Kolovratník, and then we can save ourselves all these procedures. But really, if there was a deal, we've been doing it for two hours, if I'm not mistaken about the election committee, then we have to keep it, and it doesn't matter if I'm on that side of the flag here or somewhere else. But I believe what's agreed really applies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-20-ps2017-001-01-005-005.u9	President Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-20-ps2017-001-01-005-005.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I can't help but overreact. Mr kolovratník - through you - you have not been here for three hours. [[on the President]] You've had one term as President of the Election Commission. Are you playing with us? After all, at least the number of Vice-Presidents, on a proposal from the President of the Chamber of Deputies, will determine. You guys are shooting deadlines from the waist, people, it's just as unprepared as the mandate and immune committee. Times are changing, yes, we will have to be on the lookout for whether the ANO representatives are adjusting their electoral order according to their expectations and needs and whether they will not test what the Chamber of Deputies will be willing to tolerate and let go. But by doing so, you clearly demonstrate disrespect for the basic document of this Chamber of Deputies, your unpreparedness and amateur behavior, and ultimately you are one of those who harm the name of the Chamber of Deputies, and again it goes beyond the YES movement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-20-ps2017-001-01-005-005.u11	Mr. President of the Election Commission.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-20-ps2017-001-01-005-005.u12	Thank you. That's what I figured I'd come up with the proposal or the idea. I'm sorry about Bartošek's reaction. I think we've had a fair relationship so far, and I have to turn against such a harsh assessment. Colleagues and colleagues, maybe I haven't been properly understood. I didn't want to bend or change the agreement that was made, the sensitive agreement that came into being on the electoral committee. I am now addressing Mr Munzar. It wasn't meant that we didn't agree to make it up. Yes, we made a deal, so we're not declaring Vice-Presidents today. The truth is - I can't question that, and I don't want to bend or test as far as possible, the Rules of Procedure and your will, in the sense that I will now declare a time limit in my own right. After all, as has already been quoted by Mr President in accordance with legislation, I do not have a mandate from you, from the Commission, to this at the moment. Just to explain, that was my proposal I wanted to give you, colleagues and colleagues, to consider. We might as well vote on it and vote on it, but if it is not the will - and the arguments that you are saying, I understand them, I do not have a problem with it, and in that case I take back what I said, and please do not delay the next course of the House, so it remains at this point - it is also in accordance with the resolution of the electoral committee - the deadline is within 17 hours for the President of the Chamber of Deputies, the fulfilment of the mandate and immune committee, and finally for the House verifier. At 6:00 p.m., the electoral committee will meet, and I believe that there will also be a co-worker and gentlemen's agreement on further action so that we don't have to argue like this. So I apologize and thank you for your patience and attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-20-ps2017-001-01-005-005.u13	Still Mr Pikal with a point of fact?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-20-ps2017-001-01-005-005.u14	I really have a little thing that does not concern the fiery debate now, although the fiery debate may well demonstrate the difference between 18 and 19 mandates in some committees and committees. I'd like to ask all the clubs, given that there's some kind of merging of clubs that can mix with the numbers to consider that they're going to supply the electoral committee with lists longer than one or two names than the original committee recommendation, because then somebody decides they're going to decompose or something else, and it's going to be that somebody's missing someone there. So I suggest all the clubs make the leaves longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-20-ps2017-001-01-005-005.u15	Yes. If no one goes on the debate, I will conclude the debate. That would be the end of this point, but before I do - I do not want to convene a meeting - please listen to me by the chairmen of the MPs, including the chairman of the ODS, if I may have your attention. I want to make a deal like this over the microphone so we don't call a meeting when we're supposed to meet on Wednesday. Is 9 or 10 o'clock okay? Ten, ten, ten. Excellent. Thank you for the constructive approach. Until the end of the legal time limits, we cannot discuss further items on the agenda. I will adjourn the meeting. Meet me on Wednesday, November 22, at 10 o'clock. Thus, there is room for the meeting of the parliamentary clubs and the electoral commission. I'm interrupting the appointment until November 22nd until 10:00 p.m.
