ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-011-049.u1	49. Government bill amending Act No. 256/2001 Coll., on burial and amending certain laws, as amended, and other related laws /German press 954/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, Karla Šlechtová, Minister for Regional Development, will present this proposal. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-011-049.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me thank you all for including this amendment at the Chamber of Deputies meeting. This amendment is not and was not part of the Government's programming declaration or coalition agreement. It is a matter that I proposed after my arrival, because it is necessary to deal with the burial and burial laws. Mr President, honourable Members, this proposal tabled by the amendment to the Funeral Law and other laws relating thereto concerns regulation in the field of burial. It was approved unanimously by the Government on 24 October 2016 by Resolution No. 932. Let me begin by saying that the law on burial is a law whose end user is and will always be a citizen of this state. The Ministry of Regional Development continuously monitors the legislation of burial throughout the European Union. The need for this amendment of the law can convince us, for example, the results of checks that show that the situation in this area of business in the Czech Republic is not getting much better. The Czech Trade Inspection Authority carried out more than 170 inspections from April to October 2016 and found that ČOI inspectors experienced an increase of 12 percent in non-compliance compared to 2015. The Czech Trade Inspection Authority issued its report, if I am not mistaken, on 13 January of this year. This is where I'd inform you in part of the findings. 171 controls were carried out where, in 89 cases, infringements of generally binding legislation were detected, representing more than 50 per cent of the error. This is the 12% increase in the found infringement compared to 2015, when the deficiencies found were 39 percent. This error was mainly in relation to the funeral law and subsequently to the trade law. The government amendment to the Funeral Act, which we are discussing now, is intended primarily to introduce public control over the treatment of human remains, to align the legislation adopted in 2002 with the changes that have since taken place in civil terms, in the regulation of the provision of health and social services and also in the field of specialised training for licensed trades. Although this law is called the Funeral Law, it is a regulation that regulates not only the operation of funeral services, but also the important service in the public interest and civic amenities of most municipalities, namely the operation of public burial sites, that is, cemeteries. The Ministry of Regional Development's amendments as a law-gesturer in recent years have been continuously gathering with the use of knowledge from the performance of the state administration in this area. Before the start of legislative work, possible topics of future amendment were discussed in the working group, which I set up at the end of 2014, which were members of the central administrative bodies and also all professional associations with competence in the field of burial. When evaluating the topics from this working group and also after our trips to funeral services and crematoriums, we are now presenting the proposals to amend this law. Our own and external analyses obtained through the cooperating academic institution have also shown that when determining the main amendments, attention will be needed to the legislation of the state supervision in the funeral industry, because at the moment, although some law on burial is written, we, as a gestor of this law, the Ministry of Local Development, can do nothing. I go somewhere to check, or I send out my officers, it's completely useless. They can't give any offenses, nothing. She'll reach out to the county health department to go there, or she'll address the department of commerce. The Ministry of Regional Development, as it is in every law, wants, of course, to strengthen state supervision in this area as a gesture of this law. At the same time, we deal with the scope of municipalities and regions in relation to the operation of public burial sites, the scope of municipalities in the provision of so-called. Social funerals, which are increasing year after year, also qualifying requirements for the performance of licensed funeral activities. [[16.30 hours]] I would like to mention here, because it is not very well known that e.g. The Ministry of Regional Development is the authority that authorizes persons who do business in this area, e.g. gravedigger, underground tomb builder, funeral home administrator, human remains editing and transport worker, funeral planner, cremation facility operator, funeral speaker and ceremonialist, embalmer, etc. These are, of course, all areas where the Ministry of Regional Development gives authorization to these persons to carry out their activities. The following fundamental changes are proposed in the material presented. Apart from the introduction of new controls by the Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry of Health, which worked very closely on this amendment, and I would also like to thank the employees of the Ministry of Health, because this law changes the amendment law on health services, the number of agents that will be implemented by the state authorities concerned does not change significantly. The funeral service operator will be obliged to document the operating rules and available rooms for the treatment of the deceased. This means, for example, that dead persons do not adjust in the hallways of funeral services, but there must be a room. Only the final coffins corresponding to the technical standard of 2014 will be offered, indicating which coffins are to be used, but this standard is not yet mandatory. This law makes it mandatory. Another thing that is changing in this law is the proper and state-supervised record of the crematorium operator, which should eliminate fraudulent behaviour in the actual use of final coffins. He's the difference between a closed coffin and he's the difference between a closed coffin. These are, of course, the things that are part of our law, where we explain them. Come in. The village will continue to provide for the burial of the bodies of the deceased, whose burial has not been taken care of, but newly with the contribution of the state to the transferred jurisdiction. After taking up office in November 2015, I issued an opinion that the costs of social funerals of municipalities, if requested by the Ministry of Regional Development, of course in detail with the invoice items for the social funeral, will be reimbursed. At this point, we're paying about six miles. Every year, it's an amount of about 1,200 social funerals, not all the municipalities involved, so, of course, we'll appeal to all the municipalities to know that social funerals are paying off the state. This is also one of the amounts and, of course, one of the things that is criticised, that will increase the cost of coffins and then the entire service for end users. I reject this because it is only for social funerals, where these persons without heirs, without relatives who have money for funerals, must, of course, and are looking for who will pay for the funeral and who will take the iron, sleep and subsequent burial in the first place. It is a community that has this in its duty. We as a state offer them that we will pay these costs. What this law and the Czech standard of 2014 say, of course, that we will no longer support paundek coffins, which are really box coffins, but it will be for example. Coffins made of soft wood or five-layer paper coffins where the deceased cannot fail and are impermissible. This cost increase is not enormous, of course, and if it is paid by the state, then I want to assure Members and the last final users that it will not concern them, because there is no citizen who chooses a paundell coffin on his relative. So the cost of coffins isn't really going to increase. This concerns mainly social funerals. The State will pay the costs of decent burial, including salaries and overheads to municipalities. Expected amount of funds of approximately 26 million. annually for the entire agenda, municipalities still spend on a substantively identical agenda, which is provided in a separate scope. By this law, the state proposes that we pay it back. The village as the undertaker of the funeral and the undertaker of the burial site will be methodically led and controlled by the Regional Authority and the Ministry of Regional Development. This doesn't work here yet. The proposed extension, in particular, of the control functions of the regions in their delegated capacity, will require a total of approximately 6 million. Crowns. I have requested an increase within the RUD for municipalities and regions in the state budget. The amendment does not contain solutions that would change the basic concept of the legislation in force, but in individual parts of the law we propose more effective, efficient and, of course, more explicit and transparent regulation. In choosing the resulting solutions, the principle of proportionality to the nature and seriousness was respected, and here I am allowed to add sensitivity to the whole issue. The amendment does not affect equality between men and women and is compatible with European Union law. And here's where I'm going to conclude...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-011-049.u3	I'm very sorry, Madam Secretary, but I'm going to ask for some peace in the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-011-049.u4	I'm done. Here's where I'd like to conclude -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-011-049.u5	No, you shouldn't have calmed down. They, please. You guys can't quit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-011-049.u6	Here I would like to conclude by saying that I believe that the debate on this amendment to the Funeral Act will be constructive. It's a very sensitive subject. Believe me, we personally, the officials of the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of the Interior, have dealt with this issue very closely. Here I would also like to say that I know that you have already been addressed by some interest groups. We have already given our opinion on them, and in the general debate I will comment on a few, for example. quite illogical proposals to amend this law. If our goal is to change the rules in the field of control and you are being tabled a amendment amendment from the Funeral Services Association to abolish the Ministry's competence for local development, it is completely illogical when we want to introduce it. These illogical things, they're really full of them. I have been brought to the attention here, given that there are two other parliamentary proposals, by the KDU and by the TOP 09, so I propose, Mr President, a merged debate on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-011-049.u7	Thank you. I would very much like to, but before I say another word to the rapporteur, there is one problem, because the other two proposals are in Section 90 para. 2. I cannot merge the debate in case § 90 para. 2 or there will be no veto. I don't want to advise the honourable House. I don't see it at the merged debate yet. I ask that the rapporteur now take the floor for first reading by Mr Ladislav Okleštěk. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-011-049.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, the Minister for Regional Development has shown here that she is the first of the ministers to have an interest in this problem, taking up the funeral agenda with all seriousness. Of course, I appreciate that, and I very much welcome her proposal. Unfortunately, you all know that the media are increasingly confronted with problems about burial, there is bad experience with this area of business, so I would just like to reiterate here that this is an amendment to the law, which, in essence, follows particularly the tightening of control and supervision in this area. The current law in force is essentially unenforceable, which is why there are growing problems in practice. The amendment is divided into two parts. The first part regulates the general responsibilities of the living to the deceased and the operation of business activities in burial and the second part to the operation of cemeteries that are not business. It's basically a public interest. I am therefore in agreement with the petitioner of the amendment, not only on the need for this amendment, but also on the long-term need for burial reform. As the secretary here said, she attended all kinds of funeral errands, so I'm glad she graduated, and most importantly, she came back in good health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-011-049.u9	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate in which Mr Jiří Štětina joined first. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-011-049.u10	Good afternoon again. Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Our esteemed colleagues, my fellow Members, the Minister and the rapporteur, we have a lot to say about this law, and I must say that I have a lot of bad experience with the way in which the funeral home is carried out. I'm sure you'll believe that in my short life, of course in quotes, I've written a large number of death certificates that I had to be in contact with the survivors in a place where someone dies, those in very close and kind contact, because it's never pleasant for someone close to you to die. I was a little more interested in the funeral home than I was in the hospital when the funeral home started. That was so the year 1993, 1994, when it was found that whoever has a monopoly in burying had a lot of money. This is totally unacceptable to me. I am glad that the Minister has justified this, and she has made it so clear that if it weren't for what I've marked here now - and today forgive me for speaking a little longer than it is customary for me, because I like things brief and clear, but this time with your permission, I will impose on you a little longer. I think the Minister has made it very clear that the Czech Trade Inspection has an increase in negative reports for us. I don't know if I haven't heard, that the sanitation service isn't happy, and that all the authorities that control how we bury ourselves aren't happy. I'm not happy either. And surely now the Minister will agree with me when I said that when she joined this office, we agreed that this law had to be made, and it's a good thing that she's here. And we should approve it by the end of the term simply to suit us citizens, of course, who would be ethical towards those involved - of course it will concern all of us, we will not pretend that it does not concern me today, but it may concern us tomorrow - and that, of course, it will lead a decent business into burial on the basis of the laws of this Republic. And I think that if we succeed, Madam Secretary, of course, in cooperation with all those who have to adopt this need in some way, that law can succeed. But I can't see any lobby groups there. You see, I don't have any paper in front of me that someone wrote to me. I'm gonna... [[A note from the O.R. off the microphone.]] Yes, that's official paper, of course, and that's what I'm based on, but it would be hard for someone to make it to me if he told me to read this, etc. Those are my words, my experience, and my fantasies, as I would like us to pursue this end of life. I would hate for us to have another debate that was on TV when we had the floor and when we were yelling at each other. It's not good, it's not good, it's good, it's just that we break up, one doesn't respect each other, one doesn't slander each other, and I don't want that. I would really like us to discuss this law with dignity, just as I wish we were dying with dignity, to respect the laws of health, the laws of economics, but of course some ethical standards that are not legal, but unfortunately we are very lacking in ethics. Believe me, I'm not well-known when I found out sometime four or five years ago how much money is running from the state just by not charging the right bouquet, changing coffins, maybe one coffin is charged to five families of the survivors. Then I beg you, this is completely unacceptable and reprehensible to me. There's one more thing I have to say, and it has to do with opening the coffin. Maybe there'll be a discussion as to whether or not the coffin should be opened when it goes to the crematorium. I was still in the year when I was saving my life, not dying, so sometime in 1995, two police officers came to me and asked me, "Doctor, how do you fill the death certificates? And I say, that's a weird question. I'm just gonna fill in, I'm gonna take a copy and fill out a death certificate over a copy, and if it's an autopsy, of course, four, and if it's medical security -- that's what it was called then -- I'll fill in three times. He says, well, that works. And how do you sign it? I'm saying, we're signing it through the copier. Well, he nodded, and I said, "Why are you asking so stupidly?" And they said, We will tell you, but it is very intimate. Other people can be buried on one death certificate. And at that time, when we were just a few hundred people short, I suddenly realized that on one death certificate, maybe three or four people could have been burned in the crematorium without us knowing who it was. So if anyone says we can't open the coffin, whether it's the paper one - and I'm glad the secretary says no paper one, that it has to be a wooden coffin that's for one dead person - then we won't stop it. Because really at this time... Or at this time - at any time it is very easy to simply put someone in someone else's coffin and that is unfortunately the experience of law enforcement authorities. I'm saying it's been maybe 20 years. I don't want this to happen again. At the end of your short performance, which you may be smiling at, I would like to say a few essential things. There's no way the laws are being prepared by people who have private businesses. It is not possible for us to have a hospital, and it has already been said here in the interviews, that there is a directly established company in the hospitals, which takes some of its survivors there, for which, of course, he has money. When I - and I'm done - wrote a death certificate and suddenly three or four funeral services were created in Hradec Králové, and I have to say that they were all correct at the time, so I said: Here is a list of funeral services and be so kind as to choose the company you want from them. I'm not promoting either, or I'm not telling you to call one or the other. And they said, "You know, we're devastated, so give us some advice." I said, don't be mad, choose it for yourself, so I don't happen to do anything that I prefer a funeral company. So that's what needs to be stopped. Let us also do what must be done in this field. We can't stick our heads in the sand and say, "We're not gonna care about the funeral home at all," we don't care. We simply have to care, because a dignified departure from this world is also one of our basic tasks in our humanity and we simply cannot do without it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-011-049.u11	I thank Mr Štětin. With priority rights, Vice-President Filip. I'll read the note. Minister Daniel Herman apologizes today from 16.45 for departmental reasons, and Mrs Gabriela Pecková is apologizing today from 16.40 because of illness. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-011-049.u12	Thank you, I'll be quite short, but I don't know if I can make it in two minutes. This bill, of course, has two basic dimensions, and that dimension, forgive me, technical and, of course, much more important dimension for people, and that is ethical dimension. An even more complex dimension in ethical terms is what is not contained in that law. I already told the Minister, I thanked her for processing the comprehensive amendment proposal, because by 2001 this problem was solved only by the Government's regulation, in a form that did not meet the needs of the end of the 20th century. What is the main ethical problem that is not there, virtually. it's only contained in the signs three times, and that's the question, and now I'm saying it's a serious ethical problem, mass burial. It doesn't seem like it, but it's reality. It is not really described, and it is not described in such a way that it is forbidden, i.e. in that negative sense, i.e. If there's anything that's not forbidden, it's allowed. So we can understand each other. Here the only permission for mass burial is in Section 2 letter. (f) and this is outside the urn storage, also diffuse or sprinkle meadows or combinations thereof. That's basically a form of mass burial, that's reality, so it's allowed to be mass burial. We understand each other. And then the question is how to explain a private burial ground, and that is § 3 para. 2. Here we refer to internal regulations and ceremonies of churches or religious societies that do not allow the storage of human remains or human remains on a public burial ground. We are making a huge exception here and we are taking into account the internal regulations of society, which is separated from the state, although, of course, there is a reference to a religious society that recognises the law of the Czech Republic. But it can change regardless of this bill. And the internal regulation doesn't say if mass burial is possible, we don't know it, we respect it, but we don't know it. And that's a serious ethical problem that can arise in that particular place, in that particular community that we can't talk about with certainty right now, because it's a question we don't know where that particular religious society is based. And we, unfortunately, are in a liberal environment where we respect almost everyone in our law on religious societies and congregations. And then it is contained in Section 4, indirectly, and this is the handling of human remains that must not be treated, preserved if they are infected with plague, cholera, yellow fever, etc. And that's the real reason. You know, I'm once asked by a college, a specific university, to write a proposal for mass burial. At that time, there was only one document that involved this, and this was a document that dealt with the destruction, the mass destruction after the first invasion of swine flu in the Czech Republic, when animals were slaughtered in mass. Among other things, according to the regulation that originated in Jihlava, to be absolutely specific, it is also being handled today by the avian flu. I'm just saying, and I'm really asking for understanding, so that we can clearly see how much of the provision that is here in a positive way only in that section 2 letter. (f) and in the unknown environment § 3 para. 2, so that we take care of this, and please the Minister, so that we are perfectly clear here during the committee procedure, if we say otherwise it is forbidden, and we will make it a negative definition of such behaviour. Because, of course, we don't know what can happen when it comes to natural disasters, military conflicts, other things that can happen, mass disasters of great magnitude, whether they are earthquakes, floods, etc., when this state will simply have to deal with something in a system that has not yet been experienced. And we have never experienced floods in 2002 in modern times before, and we had to deal with them, and they were billions of damage, for which the state had not had the means, the procedures to deal with it before. That's what I wanted to say at the opening of the debate. I knew it would not fit in two minutes, I could not make a factual point, but I consider it ethically one of the fundamental questions that we have to answer in committee meetings, and I ask the Minister to keep an eye on it, including those who will replace it in those committees during the hearing. And I also ask that we address this with the fact that such a solution is also our responsibility, this ethical, this material. And forgive me, the technology just has to be described here somehow, or at least a reference to what might happen. I think those who have ever encountered it know what I'm talking about. My colleague Štětina here reminded some of the problems that occurred here before the first adoption of the law in 2001 but also after the first adoption of the law, when all of a sudden those costs went for example. For the private doctor's office, who did the examination, and now there was no one to pay him back. These are things that, of course, could not be dealt with in other laws, they were not remembered, and when we first prepared the bill, questions arose that we could not answer, and we do not have that question answered today, and we write in 2017, i.e. 16 years after the law was first passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-011-049.u13	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Jiří Štětina. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-011-049.u14	One more time. By not having it written, I have actually forgotten two fundamental things, and I am glad that Vice-President Filip reminded you of this. In terms of mass burial, this is indeed an emergency situation, i.e. on the crisis situations contained in the relevant laws, in particular the Integrated Rescue System Act and the announcement of emergency situations. That's one thing. I think when it comes to committee, for example. Health Committee, so we are going to do this, and I think that there are also colleagues who are dealing with extraordinary situations. I forgot one more thing. Once we have our law or this law - I am very sorry - we cannot allow some religions to perform their ceremonies here. [[the speaker's cell phone is ringing]] Who lives here must respect our legislation and not say: we will bury people somewhere else, which does not suit us. They must obey our laws. I forgot that, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-011-049.u15	Mr Pavel Kováčik, President of the KSČM MEP's club, with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-011-049.u16	Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, for the debate that is coming, even though the debate on the three bills is merged - Well, it is thought to say goodbye, I consider it almost complete. [[Screams in the hall: No!]] But I didn't mean to say that. I wanted to say that there are three bills that are being considered by a merged debate and that, for example, the debate is being discussed. Now from the speech of the previous speaker, it will probably be very long and the topics will very probably be quite complicated, quite inconsistent, I would say quite problematic, the discussion can be quite long and not everyone can be completely clear about it. [[17,00 hours]] For example, I was interested in the perhaps a little threatening dislodgement of the way of burying members of other cultures or other religions. Here it is clear that we must, we are here in the Czech Republic, we must all respect Czech laws, Czech regulations, Czech health, sanitary, safety regulations, but also Czech traditions, which have worked well for centuries and which must be honored especially in this sensitive sector of human activity even in the future. Since the situation is a bit unclear now, I would like to ask for a two-hour break at the meeting of the KSČM club. At the same time, I ask the club KSČM to come to the club space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-011-049.u17	Thank you. Since it is 5:00 p.m., all I can do is respect the pause for the meeting of the KSČM MEP's club, which is within 19 p.m. I am therefore interrupting this point and interrupting this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. We will continue tomorrow morning when the first item of our meeting will be paragraph 290 - Answers to written interpelations. Have a good evening. Madam Secretary, I'm sorry, but there's nothing I can do.
