ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-007-041.u1	41. Government bill on electronic identification / House print 1069/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted by the Minister of the Interior will be presented by Milan Chovanec. Please, Master, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-007-041.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, let me mention the draft law on electronic identification. The first objective of the proposed law is to complete the adaptation of the legal order of the Czech Republic to the adoption of the EU regulation on electronic identification and trust services for electronic transactions in the internal market under the name of eIDAS Regulation. The second objective of the proposed law is to lay down general rules for the use of electronic identification in situations where an obligation to prove or verify identity requires the State, event. a superstate subject. The draft law provides for a general rule of electronic identification, which consists of the use of the so-called a qualified electronic identification system when showing or verifying identity by electronic means when the obligation to prove or verify identity is imposed, as I have already said, by the State, or by the State. a superstate subject. The draft law then defines the requirements that a qualified electronic identification system must meet, as well as the obligation of qualified administrators of the electronic identification system and qualified providers and holders of electronic identification devices. The draft law sets out the scope of the Ministry of Interior and the Administration of Basic Registers, which is the administrator of the state information system for electronic identification known as the national point for identification and authentication. In order to enforce any compliance with the obligations of qualified administrators of an electronic identification system of a non-State nature, the facts of offences which already respect the new concept of administrative punishment shall be constructed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-007-041.u3	I thank the Minister and now I ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mrs Věra Kovářová to take the floor. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-007-041.u4	Dear colleagues, in his introductory words, the Minister described the draft law labeled House Press 1069. So I'll be brief in my performance. The draft law on electronic identification constitutes a national legislation responding to the part of the eIDAS Regulation concerning electronic identification. The proposal aims to lay the foundations for the state-guaranteed identity of persons demonstrated electronically and to make the most of existing public administration information systems, in particular the system of basic registers. In addition, it opens up the possibility of proving electronic identity by other commercial means. In general, this law can be described as defining a playground with the rules of the game, where people can be identified by various means, and with the highest credibility it is through last week's approved electronic citizen. In other cases, it could take place e.g. on the identification based on the use of registration in electronic banking and ending with commercial means of my ID type, on the basis of the conditions laid down by this law. By this means, not only the so-called electronic communication of the citizen with the state, but also with self-government and finally with commercial entities could be expanded in a significant and mass manner. However, I would like to point out that there is a need for synergies with all public authorities to be timely and properly prepared for this method of communication. The Organizing Committee has proposed a Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a Committee on Guarantee, while I propose, in the context of coherence, to have a vote on a merged debate with the following House press 1070 amending the laws relating to the adoption of the above proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-007-041.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate which Mr Ivan Pilný was the first to join. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-007-041.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that the House has reached an important law such as the Electronic Identity Act, because it has really huge implications in all possible areas. However, I am not happy that the Civil Card Act with the chip was first discussed, because the law itself, the Minister had to admit it, will probably have to be amended after the adoption of this law. On the other hand, paradoxically, it created for those who are not overly concerned, at least an idea of what such an electronic means of identification could be. I'd just like to draw attention to a few of the problems that are in the law that will have to be resolved. First thing. There are three levels of identification - low, significant and high. It is not clear in this law who will decide for which method of identification, for example for which part of the public or public administration will be responsible for which identification. This is not only the problem of who is responsible, but it is also a cost problem. In the RIA study, which is there, the cost of introducing an electronic identity is estimated at 140 million. plus 58 miles. These are absolutely abstract imaginary numbers, because those costs can be zero if someone doesn't change the electronic identity, or they can be astronomical and they can be hundreds of millions to billions in the order, and that's a number that's far more representative. [[17.20 hours]] I also don't know how to treat systems that already exist, such as data boxes, what level of identification it will be, what level of identification will be applied to systems that are implemented in the state administration, such as EETs, whether they need to be changed or not according to the degree of identification they will be assigned. It follows that the considerations on how much it will cost are built entirely on water and will need to be dealt with much more precisely. The next thing that will be discussed is personal data, because a number of personal data are associated with electronic identity, and we will really need to have discussions about what and in what cases these data are to be protected. So I say again that I am very pleased that the law has arrived, it is necessary to discuss it properly and to accept it, and it is quite appropriate, because it is a matter that affects not only the state and public administration, but all of us who will enter into any system, including commercial ones that already have an identification, and whether they change it or accept it is their business and it is also a matter of their costs, but the State, in my opinion, if we take it seriously, it will cost much more than the estimated costs that are in the RIA study. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-007-041.u7	I thank Mr Pilný. Another duly registered member is Mr Štěpán Stupčuk. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-007-041.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for a shorter time limit for the discussion of the bill in committees to 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-007-041.u9	Thank you. I'm registering this proposal. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. If there is no such person, I am ending the general debate and I am asking the Minister's final words and, where appropriate, the rapporteur. Not interested. I do not see the proposal to refer back or reject the proposal, so we will deal with the proposal on the commandments of the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest a commandment to another guarantee committee? It's not like that. I therefore initiate the vote on the commandment of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee committee. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 368 vote, 118 Members of Parliament, for 103, against none. The motion was accepted. I note that the proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a proposal for another committee? Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-007-041.u10	With the impact of eHealth, I propose a health committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-007-041.u11	Mr Běhounek proposes a health committee. If no one has another proposal, there's a request for everyone to check out. So I'm signing you off and I'm asking you to sign up with your voting cards. We will vote on the proposal by Mr Běhounek on the commandment to the Health Committee. Initiating vote on the commandment to the Health Committee. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 369 vote, 105 Members and Members, for 100, against none. The motion was accepted. The last vote is a proposal to shorten the deadline by 30 days to 30 days, as proposed in the general debate. Initiating vote to shorten the deadline. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? The vote is 370, 105 Members and Members are registered, for 82, against 6. The motion was accepted. The deadline for discussion was shortened and the bill was ordered by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee and further to the Health Committee. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur and end the first reading of this bill. But the Minister is about to come to our next point.
