ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-014-061.u1	61. Government bill amending Act No. 64/1986 Coll., on Czech Trade Inspection, as amended, and Act No. 634/1992 Coll., on Consumer Protection, as amended /German press 995/ - first reading The Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek will present the proposal on behalf of the Government. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-014-061.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, the aim of the proposal for an amendment to the Czech Trade Inspection Act is to ensure effective supervision of compliance with consumer law implemented by the COI, thereby ensuring effective consumer protection. To meet this goal, the MIT proposes to equip the COI with new powers responding to new possibilities of the digital era or knowledge of existing application practice and control activity. In the draft law, the conditions for carrying out control purchases are specified for this purpose. In practice, inspectors often find it difficult to settle the refund and control purchases after being returned to a controlled person by the undamaged person. This increases the administrative burden on inspectors and also the need to deal subsequently with how to deal with such acquired property. The conclusion of the contract is therefore newly introduced in the implementation of the control purchase and the right of inspectors to withdraw from the contract thus concluded. Another novelty is the incorporation of the establishment ensuring anonymity and the protection of their personal data by inspectors in situations where their personal data are required when purchasing as part of the control, such as the presentation of a citizen's card to prepare a specific draft contract. If the inspector had not presented his identity card in such a situation, the inspection would have been thwarted as his refusal to provide personal data could have been considered non-standard and suspicious by the audited entity. The proposal for COI inspectors further establishes competence so that, in the event of a reasonable suspicion of a serious infringement, they can access the premises of sellers. Typically, it will be the opening of market stands in which dangerous products or counterfeits are proven to be found. ČOI inspectors do not have sufficient powers to ensure access to the said goods, especially when the seller leaves the booth and locks dangerous or counterfeit goods in it. State Agricultural and Food Inspections have similar powers today. Last but not least, in order to enhance the effectiveness of the control and enforcement of the rights, the competence of the COI inspectors is newly enshrined in order to require information from the parties concerned on e-shop operators which cannot be identified from the data provided on their website and who clearly violate legal obligations. If the person deals with this information, he will have to communicate it without delay at the request of the COI inspectors, otherwise he will be subject to penalty. The draft amendment to the ČOI Act also processes changes resulting from the adoption of related legislation. For the sake of completeness, the amendment of the Consumer Protection Act, which is part of the submitted text, was triggered by the need to transfer the substantive liability of the seller from the Czech Trade Inspection Act to the Consumer Protection Act, which is the basic standard governing the obligations of sellers to consumers. On the occasion of this necessary amendment, it is also proposed to adapt two legislative technical deficiencies arising from the Consumer Protection Act. Finally, allow me to put forward a proposal to shorten the examination of the draft law in committees by 30 days. The reason for this proposal is, above all, the fact that the effectiveness of the bill submitted is proposed as of 1 July 2017, this is in line with the effectiveness of the Act on Liability and Procedure for Misdemeanors. This deadline should be respected in particular in the light of the legal certainty of the entities concerned. Nor can it be forgotten that the sooner we strengthen the ČOI's powers, the sooner it will be able to protect consumers more effectively. In conclusion, honourable Members, I would like to ask you to support the proposal for this law both at today's sitting and in the following legislative process in the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies and subsequently at second and third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-014-061.u3	Thank you, Minister. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mrs Květa Matušovská. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-014-061.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as has already been said, the main objective of the proposed bill is to respond to the development of new forms of sales on the consumer market, as well as to the practical experience of the Czech Trade Inspection in the exercise of supervision and the proposed adaptation to these findings, thereby creating an inspection of the conditions for the most effective exercise of control in its field of competence. As far as possible, this should be the most effective way of protecting both consumers and honest entrepreneurs, as they too are harmed by competition using unfair commercial practices. The present proposal provides for an authorisation on the basis of which inspectors of the Czech Trade Inspection will be able to access the premises of the entrepreneur, typically for the sale of dangerous products that threaten the health of consumers or for the sale of counterfeits on the market with the exception of dwellings, in cases of reasonable suspicion of breach of legal obligations, and if the purposes of the inspection cannot be otherwise achieved. A positive direction is also followed by a proposal ensuring, on the one hand, the effective exercise of control and, on the other hand, the protection of personal data by inspection inspectors. In order to allow the inspector to behave and appear the same way as the normal consumer when carrying out the check without endangering his privacy, it is necessary to allow the Czech Trade Inspection to act under a change of identity where the subject-matter of the check so requires and where the purpose of the check cannot be otherwise achieved, and this has been made possible by means of means of cover. The draft law also newly establishes the power to obtain information on the identity of persons who commit infringements in the Internet environment, for example involved in the operation of fraudulent e-shops. Such cases are increasingly encountered by consumers and the Czech Trade Inspection Authority. The bill therefore responds to this expanding practice of dishonest entrepreneurs when it puts an effective tool in the hands of the Czech Trade Inspection to track down the responsible entity. Non-regulator tools are not sufficient to address these problems. It is therefore necessary to clarify the existing legislation so that the obligations of the seller for the control purchase are clearly defined by law and it is not possible to discuss different legal interpretations. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I recommend that you release this proposal for second reading, with an organizational committee recommended by the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee to discuss the bill. I agree with that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-014-061.u5	Thank you, Madame. I am opening a general debate to which the rapporteur is reporting. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-014-061.u6	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to propose a 30-day reduction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-014-061.u7	So 30 days to 30 days. Thank you. Anyone else interested? With priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-014-061.u8	Thank you for the floor. I'd ask the Minister to state here how specifically the secrecy of inspectors will take place. I hope it's something based on some kind of identification number or something, but I would definitely be very cautious if I heard that they should be able to change their identity. I don't think the police have it either. Before we discuss it. I confess that I have not studied the proposal entirely and without torture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-014-061.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The next report is with proper application by Mr. Petr Kudela. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-014-061.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I would like to recommend to the House the adoption of this standard. It's a good standard. Everyone can imagine a controller who has to do his part until the end, which means ordering a product in a bidding event to get his hands on a contract and so on. And putting my own I.D. on it, I really can't imagine how I would react to that, if I didn't back out at the last minute before I pulled out the I.D. But if the controllers are to perform their role well, then they need the competences that this bill gives. The fake identity system is very well described in the law, and I think it can work perfectly. I very much welcome the elements regarding monitoring compliance with some corporate culture on the Internet. [[18.40 hours]] The territorial scope of individual regional or regional inspections is defined in the first paragraphs of my complaint. As I have information from the Czech Trade Inspection Authority, this may not work for specialized inspections of technical quality products and so on. So I'm pretty sure we're gonna have to find another match. But otherwise in general, I highly recommend and please the Sněmovna to send this material to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-014-061.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Karel Fiedler will respond with a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-014-061.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would have responded just because of my colleague Laudát's performance. Of course, I do not criticise his request that we be well acquainted with how this will be done. I just want to remember that in my own experience, I know the case where I was contacted by the person who carried out these checks and got into a very unpleasant and awkward situation with regard to my identity. And not in the actual conduct of the inspection, but in the subsequent steps, when the unfair activity of the dishonest trader was further resolved, when the situation was so absurd that, thanks to the existing regulations and practices, this person was in a very uncomfortable situation where the person with whom the authorities were in dispute was very close to their permanent residence, they knew each other and knew each other. And in the end, it turned out okay. But this matter needs to be dealt with and I support this amendment being passed on to second reading. If we have any comments or reservations about this, let's work on it and precise it. But I certainly support us dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-014-061.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for respecting the time limit. With a factual remark, Mr Roman Váňa is registered. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-014-061.u14	Madam Members, honourable Members, honourable Members, Mr President, I must admit that this bill must have escaped my direct attention, because it seems to have nothing to do with the Department of Security. But after what we've just heard, and after I quickly turned over the bill - we give the inspectors of the Czech Trade Inspection essentially the powers of intelligence agents. It's police jurisdiction. I admit that I really can't imagine under false documents, with cover identities, our valiant controllers entering the shops. We got somewhere completely out of the system. We on the pharmacies balance the powers for the intelligence services so that we don't cross the line of disturbing citizens' freedoms, and here, I apologize to the Minister, it's a government proposal, but here in an effort to make the Czech Trade Inspection really more effective, I totally understand it, but we have come to a point that is really reserved for very different entities of state power. Whether it's the Police of the Czech Republic, whether it's intelligence. I think we're going to have to find another way to help inspectors carry out controls effectively, and leave this direction. I can imagine intensive cooperation between inspectors and police officers. Of course, there are different possibilities of competence and competence. We can imagine a lot of things, but please, not this way. [[Time warning]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-014-061.u15	Thank you. With a factual point, Mr Karel Fiedler is registered. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-014-061.u16	I think we should discuss this mainly in committees. A note that was made here from the diaper. I was intrigued by what my colleague said earlier. And he's chairman of the committee. The Minister is a member of the same parliamentary club. I'm having a little bit of a hard time here, and it doesn't work. It is, however, a matter of the petitioner and one of the government parties. And I'll repeat what I said before. If there are any fundamental comments and reservations about this, let's work on it. At third reading, we can decide what to do about it. However, I do have experience in such a way that this issue also needs to be addressed. If this interferes where my colleague, President Váňa, said, I see no reason for us to have to reject it, the proposal has not yet fallen, but for us to deal with it in committees. And in that case, I don't think I'm gonna support a possible shortening of the deadline. Let's work on it, and we can decide at the third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-014-061.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'm asking if anyone's interested in getting off. Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-014-061.u18	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, don't be mad at me, I've been trying to get some backup here to rework. Because I have no doubt that it is necessary to clarify and maybe help guard the Czech Trade Inspection in order to have options against fraudsters. No doubt. And there are emotions. But what really went through the government is shocking. I just can't breathe this out, and I don't think it's appropriate at this point in time for us to turn this crucial thing into some kind of reading using amendments. Because I really don't know, and I think if anyone meant that, especially on the Security Committee and on the similar committees that are here, it should have been somehow pre-negotiated and defined by the boundaries. That is why I am proposing that we vote on a return to recasting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-014-061.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The next report is for the general debate by Mr Snopek. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-014-061.u20	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I thought the Czech Trade Inspection Act was a standard law. But when I received an alert on Section 5, Section 5c, I really must confirm the words that my colleague here expressed that we are actually working with a commercial inspection as an important security component. Covering documents, issue of cover documents. I think I can understand from one side, these are million-dollar trades, fuel, simply violations of these laws. But even for law enforcement agencies, we don't issue any large quantities, as far as I know, cover documents. And the Czech Trade Inspection is not, after all, a repressive component within the meaning of the law. I think that the comment that was made here on these paragraphs should lead us to think. Inspector of the Czech Trade Inspection has not only a cover document, but also a Czech Trade Inspection Inspector's card is also to be issued for the cover document! In short, everything will be undercover. I think there's a little bit of a mix of the work of the police authority and the control body in terms of a commercial inspection. [[18.50 hours]] There's been a briefing here. I think these things should be discussed much more quickly than they should express any opinion on these incriminate paragraphs. Then we'll create a whole system of registration protection. I think we've gotten farther than we wanted. Or it should be justified enough, these things, and be under a completely different regime than under the Czech Trade Inspection. Who else will ask for a new identity, protection? Dear colleagues, think about what the bill is basically about. Then there will be a business inspection, the next step will be that the CHI will be armed with a file? Well, maybe it's a smile, but if someone has a hidden identity, they can follow other laws. And I would hate to see us from the perspective of these audit bodies go anywhere else than the legislator's intention. I think the Minister will be sure to answer these remarks. I can understand - we also see on television hits, big markets, wagons. It's just a bunch of things. But if the law actually proposed this way, so hard and with such conditions at this time is necessary. I don't know how to answer that. I'd like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-014-061.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Laudát withdrew his application. And Mr Váňa is reporting for a general debate. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-014-061.u22	Indeed, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would not want to torpedo the efforts of the Ministry of Industry and Trade to improve the activities of the COI in any way. But since this topic really resonates strongly with the issue of the Security Committee, I would just like to say that such a thing could threaten the very inspectors on life. We want to send them to a criminal environment under cover identities. That's life-threatening. Then we need to make them a security body, arm them, and somehow deal with it in a very different way than we've dealt with so far, like the COI inspectors. Yes, customs have the authority to change their identity. Yes, the police have the authority to change their identity as part of a criminal investigation. But please, let's distinguish between what we want from the inspectors. And I would hate to have them put in situations where they could actually... Then somebody thinks they're gonna spend months in that faulty environment under a fake identity and fight somewhere with those robbers who... I don't think that was the legislator's intention. And that we really got somewhere else in the effort to improve our activities than we originally thought. I guess I'm doing the right thing because my time isn't running out, so I can still use that time to...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-014-061.u23	I assumed it was a proper application.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-014-061.u24	Yes, thank you for getting the message right. Seven hours. [[Fun in the hall.]] I think, of course, that first reading is a very important thing, because we can seriously think about the impact such a bill would have on us. And here it seems to me that we've encountered a risk, a danger that would really be disproportionate to what we're asking of the CHI. From this point of view, I'd like us to... Because, as I looked into the material, it's basically the main pillar of the proposal - that we should think about dealing with it in some other way. So, I'm looking at the club presidents, see if... [[The President: On the other hand, you must look.]] Very well. So thank you for your attention. I am very pleased that we have responded to the current situation of this law, and I believe that we will take those objections into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-014-061.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Jana Černochová is next reporting for the general debate. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-014-061.u26	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. You know, colleagues and colleagues, I'm concerned that Minister Mládek sits here like a man who's cut off. He's on the phone, he's not responding to what's going on here, even from his fellow government MPs. Mr. Secretary, can you please tell us if what is being said here by your colleagues is true or not? I mean, you guys have... The House should know your opinion. You're the petitioner for the government of this proposal. So how can something like this happen? How do you justify the proposal you're making here? Indeed, I am more and more fascinated by the desire of this government coalition, virtually. some specific ministers of this government coalition, have their police everywhere. Whether it's the Ministry of Defence in the form of the Military Police Act, or it's the Ministry of Finance in the form of greater authority to customs. Now we learn that the same desire to have a police authority in the house, longing for this desire, was succumbed to this desire by the Minister of Industry and Trade Mládek. Who else? Minister Brabec is waving no, but we can trust him, but we'll see what he comes up with by the end of his term. [[Fun in the hall.]] So, I, respectable members of the government coalition, might consider it fair to all of us if you said so at once. If you said that you had a party commitment in this government, that every minister would rip off a police authority by the end of the term so that you could have the authority to compete with each other on a different battlefield and collapsing ground than the one on which you are competing to this day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-014-061.u27	Thank you, Madame. Prime Minister Laudate, do you report with priority or proper? So the Minister can still have the chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-014-061.u28	Thank you. I'm not surprised that Mr. Babiš is building his police force through customs. He's got it in his head, and it doesn't surprise me at all. I'm not surprised when maybe some strong ministers do it to each other. But that a colleague or Minister Mládek wants to build his own police... It's almost gone through here in a dark place, and with the powers even that may have security services, that's quite surprising information for me. Anyway, I'm already... Even if this is meant to be. But very seriously now. Do you realize what this government is doing? How is it possible that such a proposal will be passed by the Czech Government? For example, what does KDU-ČSL want to tell people that she is the righteous one who simply cares about it and makes sure that someone doesn't run away and harm freedom? What's your Deputy Prime Minister doing there? Is this even possible? I still understand - I confessed that I didn't study the proposal in detail, and I only heard once that there was a thing like this, so I asked. And apparently, all the MPs are surprised. I'm asking the absent ministers and Prime Minister how many more of these things they're gonna be planting by the end of their term. Is it really because somebody's gonna control and chase scumbags for the paprika, so you're gonna run this thing and present it? I can't believe this is happening anymore! I'm the one who's been through a lot, but what you let in here is absolutely incredible. [[19.00 hours]] And I think, Minister, that it would be better for you to withdraw the proposal yourself, return it, and actually come up with a standard amendment to the law that might help with some quicker coordination of intervention. But if you really want controllers who, for example, control the level of beer in the pints, expose them to walking - that's not even in Švejk anymore, that's what you're doing here. It's just absolutely unbelievable. And I don't think this is for law-making. And this government should be ashamed! And then I ask how this government works, if this ever goes through. If Minister Brabec knows about it and if he has any assistants who can read the horrors that someone will bring to the government. What does the Legislative Council of the Government do? Is it possible that this will go through the Government Legislative Council? [[Voice off the microphone.]] Well, it's a government proposal, says Mr. Mládek here. That makes it worse... Can I have one more, please?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-014-061.u29	I'm gonna need some peace of mind. We're still discussing the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-014-061.u30	If ex-minister Dienstbier has done this yet, I suppose so. Or when it came here, I don't know. Or does this fall upon Minister Chvojka? I find that hard to believe. Because he's an excellent lawyer, and perhaps he has a balanced constitutional condition, as divided power is, and also some reasonable exercise of power. So I'd like to do the same, colleagues, to study this government shame, and the next time he gets to it, let's make a deal here. But it's alarming for me that this is coming here at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-014-061.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Dear colleagues, we have 7:00. I note that Mr Snopek has been applied for in fact, but it is no longer possible to discuss it after 19 o'clock. And the Minister has been signed up for the debate. I am interrupting this point, and at the same time interrupting this meeting until tomorrow, 2. 2. 2017 at 9.00, when we will start with point 297 - the report of the Commission of Investigation under a properly approved programme. Thank you and have a good evening, everyone.
