ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u1	The joint debate on paragraphs 337 and 339 I am initiating a merged general debate and asking who is applying for it. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome the fact that the Commissioner is on Parliament's floor and discusses with us other options for the development of European integration. I think it is very important that such a discussion is in the interests of the Czech Republic and that it is a debate that should also be attended by members of the government in many numbers than they are now represented in, because it is really the future of the Czech Republic. At this point, I will limit myself only to a very short comment concerning the five proposed scenarios or the possible variants presented by the European Commission in the White Paper. I would like to state, and perhaps for the rationality of the debate, we all need to realise that this is not actually five real scenarios. At least two options were added by the European Commission to include some extreme positions that are not actually possible at the moment. The idea of restricting ourselves only to the single market may sound tempting, and from me as a right-wing politician something like this might actually sound natural if I said it was the right position, but it's an unrealistic position. European integration is a long time ago somewhere else. I also consider the idea that we will do much more together as an extreme option. There is no support at all for this in any European country, and this option is as radical as the idea of restricting ourselves only to the single market. I think that it is clear - and it is clear to all those who think about European integration and at least watch what is happening in Europe - that this further integration will develop in the form of a sort of differentiated integration, perhaps with a return - which I would prefer - some competences back to the national level from the European level, that, for example, part of shared competences in policies will go back to the national level, and vice versa, where some countries want to integrate more, so that they will have such an opportunity, without, and that is essential, other states will be forced. Of course, in the first step, it would also be necessary to equalise the countries that are members of the euro area and those that are not members of the euro area - and this is definitely not happening in the European Union. Because if we achieve this equality, then we will avoid the risk that is there, and that is the risk of the gradual disintegration of the Union because of the creation of a so-called political core around the euro area, which can create a membership of two categories and, ultimately, a violation of the common market rules, which is extremely important. The ODS welcomes one thing that may come out of this document - I hope this optimism is appropriate - and this is leaving the dogma of an ever closer Union, when, in fact, states must move forward equally in all areas. I also don't like the concept of multi-speed Europe, because the concept of multi-speed Europe, although it involves different levels of integration, actually means that at different speeds, my idea and the idea of ODS, the idea of flexible integration and integration, let's say, differentiated, such a necessary common goal, at the end, for all, to which it grows at different speeds, does not include this idea. On the contrary, we would like to propose a concept of flexible integration, flexible cooperation, so that each state can freely choose the depth of integration that suits it, that it does not prevent others from further integration. If they want it and if they want to create an integration core, of course they can. But at a time when we do not call it a multi-speed Europe, when we do not have an ever closer Union objective, it is a debate about a completely different and more welcoming European Union than when we have this ideological dogma built before us. In our opinion, so that the scenarios - and I will certainly not surprise you, if I underline again several times that I believe that the reform of the European Union is necessary and necessary, otherwise the European Union will not survive, cannot go further integration in this way, we must change the European Union. In order to achieve this, we must reach into the basic treaties, we must open contracts, we must touch on primary law. [[11.30 hours]] I know that this idea of some pro-European pro-federalist politicians is not very popular that it has been rejected for a long time. I have also heard in the Czech debate by the Prime Minister that he will not actually go into the basic treaties. I was convinced that it had to be done, that, in fact, the departure of Great Britain already required such an intervention. Now I hear the debates of Europe's leading politicians, Chancellor Merkelová, the new French president, as they are actually admitting intervention in the basic treaties. It seems to me like a way back or a return to some sort of rationality. And I believe that there is a chance for us to change the European Union in some reasonable way. When I speak of the need for reform, that the debate on reform in Europe is ongoing, that the Czech Republic will not avoid it, I would like to emphasise, at the end of this brief comment, my repeated request to meet, the representatives of the key political forces in this country, and to discuss what our idea of the European Union is, what our idea of reform is, what we want to achieve, whether we are able to agree on some minimum national consensus, some minimum national consensus, whether we are able to define national interests, and then, on the basis of such a discussion, equip our political representation, whether the present one or the one that comes from the next elections, with a strong mandate. A mandate not based solely on some current majority, but on a mandate based on the consensus of key political forces in this country. I think that then our chance to promote some idea of reform of Europe, to push through our ideas about the future development of the European Union, that our chances will increase. Because the old truth is, on the outside, we are as strong as we are at home united.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u3	Thank you. I note Mrs Marková's factual remark, Mr Leo Luzar, duly signed up for the debate, will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, at this point, to be a White Book, which means that it is a document which is actually informative and should be a kind of input into the debate on the future of Europe, the Government of the Czech Republic has taken its stand on this document. I think that the position of the Government of the Czech Republic, especially from the Prime Minister's mouth, should be heard here after the Euro Commissioner's speech, because that is what I think the following discussion should be based on. Since there are five scenarios presented here with the possible form of the European Union in 2025, advantages and disadvantages are actually listed in this document. It would be good for the Prime Minister of this country to comment on this in particular. Because when we look at the individual scenarios, neither of them is actually acceptable, at least for the KSČM, because the continuation of the current practice means there, that would be as it would be today, that is, the extreme right has achieved excellent results in the European elections and it also meant the departure of Great Britain from the European Union. The second scenario is essentially a 100% market and no social policy. In fact, the third scenario threatens the Czech Republic to get to the brink within a multi-speed Europe. Screenplay number four, it sounds quite reasonable, but again there are things that are debatable, on asylum issues, migration, etc. And scenario five means federalization. So, first of all, we should insist that the Prime Minister of this country present his position here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u5	Thank you. I'm recording two factual points. First of all, Mr Fiedler, after him Mr Rais, after him Mr Foldyna. Please, here are the factual points. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u6	Of course, I agree with my colleague Marková's view that the empty bench of the government behind me should be filled when we are discussing such essential matters. But let's think about it: the government's position, the government's representing us. After all, the government is accountable to the Chamber of Deputies and what is becoming a common practice here, that the government is acting regardless of the opinion of the Chamber of Deputies, and I think that we, as the Chamber of Deputies, should comment on this, we should give our opinion, and the government should - and I am stressing the conditional method, because I know that practice is different. Personally here, when I was discussing with the Prime Minister, when he was sitting behind me, he clearly shook my head that he wasn't going to respect the House's position. But it should be that the Government is accountable to the House and should respect the position of the House, since we are already elected citizens' representatives, when a referendum on this subject is no longer allowed, and I think the Chamber of Deputies should give its opinion on which the government should follow. It should not be the other way around, because as it often sounds on the floor of this Chamber of Deputies, the government is accountable to the Chamber of Deputies. And that is permanently and long-term ignored and violated. We are talking about something that the government will do, see the Prime Minister will sign some agreement that we then need to ratify, and this is such a crucial thing where at least on the House floor there should be a very detailed debate and discussion first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u7	Thank you, too. Now, Mr Rais, Mr Foldyna will be prepared with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u8	Have a good day. One of the basic management lessons is that communication is the basis for success. That is why I welcome the fact that Euro Commissioner and Commissioner are coming here, and I think it is very important to hear their opinion. At the previous speech, I like that, at last, the European Union leadership has presented some strategic options. Discussing whether the spirit drink from the Božkov plant is to be named that way or not, I think this should not be addressed by the European Union's leadership. Unfortunately, we have seen this more often than any presentation of strategic views. So the strategic variations here are on the table, I welcome that. Of course, the government and the House should express their views on these options, perhaps some individual clubs should take their stand. I would like to draw attention to one more thing, and it concerns some kind of life experience. If politics outruns the economy, it's a mess. And that doesn't have to be just RVHP, it's what we see here, essentially, when politics outruns the economy, like when the European Union takes Greece into its arms. Until today, there are problems. So if the political approaches we see, the non-compliance by the European Union's leadership, overtakes the situation, it is a mess. I mean simply non-compliance with Schengen treaties, non-compliance with Maastricht, which I was talking about, non-compliance with Dublin treaties, etc. So it should also be a little bit of a European Union leadership, especially when they say that we are following or failing to comply with quotas, etc. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u9	Thank you, too. Now, Mr Foldyna and Mr Rom Kostřica will be prepared with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would also like to start by thanking the Commissioner. I think it is very important that we in the national Parliament can discuss with the representative of the European Union, with the European Commissioner, and I think that it is very important for the European Commissioner to know the views that we are saying here in the national Parliament. I think this is a very important moment. I would like to make a comment. I consider myself to be a very leftist policy, but I must also appreciate the speech of the President of the Civil Democrats of the Fiala, when I am very close in my view of how the conservative part of the political spectrum sees the European Union. Yes, I, too, think that economic cooperation needs to be deepened and that efforts for political integration should be closely monitored. Political integration is a very sensitive issue. I think that national parliaments must continue to play a very important role. That's what we're witnessing in those trials, in those discussions about this important topic for someone, about the migration issue. [[11.40 hours]] I think that Europe has resigned from its global role. That's the result. Today we are dealing with the result of the global crisis in which we have played a role - sorry to say this in such a very undignified way for parliamentary land - a useful idiot like Europe. I'm sorry to say that, but I can't think of anything else. We have resigned, we, the European Union, have resigned to the role of a global player and have become an object of this global policy and we are dealing with the consequences. And its consequence is the migration crisis. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] And I think it's very important for the future. We lost a partner. [[The President again draws attention to the time.]] England, its departure, is a loss of partnership for national parliaments in the European Union.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u11	Thank you. Mr Rom Kostřica, Mrs Langšádlová, is now making a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u12	Thank you for the floor. I very much appreciated the appearance of Commissioner Jourová. I have one comment. This House has been working regularly for many years with a missing foreign committee. I am already a member of the foreign committee for the second term, and I think it would be ideal - and I would like to ask the Commissioner, through the President, to take her time. I'm not in the position of chairman of the Foreign Committee to officially invite you, but to discuss this matter with us, perhaps. She has prepared some topics for us to lead the debate in a very fruitful spirit. I think it's definitely for the best. All the more so, that many of us, including me, are members of the Council of Europe, and I have been in the second term. So I think it would be very appropriate for you to remember this sometime during your next visit to the Czech Republic and offer us the opportunity to meet you on the foreign committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u13	Thank you, too. Now, Mrs Langšádlová, with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u14	Thank you for the floor. Good day, ladies and gentlemen. I, too, thank the Commissioner for coming to us. I'm a little concerned about what's going on here. I think we agree that Europe is failing as a global player. I think we can agree that we need to discuss these scenarios and that this will not be an easy decision. But what worries me is that in one sentence, there is a word that Europe is failing as a global player, that, in short, even though we are the richest part of the world, even though there are still half a billion people, we do not play the role that we could play and should play in a situation where there really are great global players like India, China, America. And even the largest European countries themselves can do nothing in the global field. We know that we want to develop economically and economically, but at the same time, there have been several voices - let us be careful of the political cooperation. But without that, we'll never be a global player. Without this cooperation, political, security, foreign policy, we cannot be a global player. That's a contradiction. And so if we simply do not want to be a marginal player on that global field one day, then we must look for common paths on the issue of security, foreign policy and others. Because otherwise, Europe will really be marginal. Even the data that has been said here in terms of population development is alarming. But we all know that. We are in a major and demographic crisis. But if we don't work together, if we don't agree on these basic things, if we don't deepen integration, for example. in the area of security, so we are really hurting ourselves and hurting our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u15	Thank you, too. I'm registering two more factual points. First of all, Mr Zahradník, then Mr Zlatuška. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u16	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Commissioner, I am perhaps addressing you with a question, a subject. We are now actually at the beginning of the second half of the current programming period and you were talking about the general theories of the future policy of the European Union. I would like to know whether the Commission is also dealing with concrete steps in the preparation of the programming period, which will start in 2021, and, in particular, whether you are also considering any new impulses, incentives, motives for the future of cohesion policy, cohesion policy. Cohesion factors, in my view, are declining, those things that should keep the European Union together. Maybe they're losing a little bit of the strength of the cohesion factors of economics, maybe you'll find a strengthening for cohesion in strengthening cross-border cooperation. In places where there have been borders, there are regions that very much call for strengthening cooperation, working together very closely, looking for ways to improve cooperation even more. Finally, I wonder whether the European Union is in any way concerned with strengthening the language skills of citizens in individual countries, whether you are considering any idea of a language that people living in the European Union could communicate with, which would be a priority language. When Britain is leaving now, there have even been theories that English should perhaps be completely forgotten as a language communicating on the Union's soil. Whether you are dealing with these things and whether you are dealing with these motives, impulses for the future of cohesion policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u17	Thank you, too. Now, Mr Jiří Zlatuška, Mr Petr Fiala will be prepared with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u18	Madam Commissioner, Mr President, I believe that the European Commissioner's speech around the alternatives for the further development of the European Union is very important in terms of the future of the Czech Republic and in terms of what we have before us. I believe that the possibilities that are addressed in the European Union's configuration are, from the point of view of real threats that necessarily have to fall on us from the outside over time, much more important than the many problems that we are discussing here in a long way on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. Excuses on external influence, on the possible imperfections of every legislation, particularly introspekce, on what sometimes happens here in this House - I will just remember this morning when we were not able to listen to the answers to the written interpelations to ministers - excuses for these external influences are merely playing on a rather strange national political note that can cost us immensely much in the future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u19	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Petr Fiala. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u20	I will respond briefly to Mrs Langšádlová's remark. Of course, we need to talk about political integration and not pretend that political integration can go on and go without problems. Because it is the political integration that is the source of the huge problems and crises that the European Union has come into. There are several crises. And who does not want to admit it or do not fully realize it, let them imagine what the departure of Great Britain means and the fact that we have come to such a state that one of Europe's key countries is leaving the European Union. That's not enough. This must be a signal for us that we must implement the reform of the European Union and move in a different direction. And we need to see what these sources of trouble are. The sources of problems are just pointless political integration and bureaucratic integration, which goes in a number of directions to such details that are unnecessary and that even citizens do not want and will not accept. And as far as economic integration is concerned, I think it's not enough. After all, we have not yet reached the level of cooperation that the founders of the European Communities imagined. Do we really have the free movement of four freedoms here? Do we have, like, a smooth movement of services and goods? I mean, you can all imagine, and you have experience with that. We don't. Maybe we can work on this. [[11.50 hours]] But then there are more important questions. Cooperation on security matters, of course. Or let us ask ourselves how to proceed in energy, if this is not something that is holding us back from competing with other powers and other parts of the world. Let us consider, for example, why we are suddenly not dominant as a Europe in the field of education when we have always been, why we have problems in research, why we are probably not innovative enough to compete with other economies. [[Time warning]] These are all the questions that we also need to ask ourselves.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u21	Thank you. I have two more factual points here. Mr Zdeněk Soukup will appear first and Mr Ivan Gabal will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u22	Dear Commissioner, colleagues and colleagues. I will turn to you, Commissioner. I don't really believe that Brusel, by publishing the White Paper, gives us any options. I do not believe that, taking into account the fact that almost irreversible steps are being taken, which the European Commission is essentially applying to our position on the quotas adopted and the like. The proof of this is a very hard vote or a tough decision against Hungary, I believe that yesterday or the day before yesterday it was voted on, where unfortunately our MEPs also adopted against this country, I would say, the position with which I and I think that even a number of my colleagues here in the Chamber of Deputies are unable to identify. This means that the resolution on the temporary adoption of the right to vote by Hungary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u23	Thank you. Now, Mr Ivan Gabal's factual remark. Mr Pavel Kováčik will be prepared with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u24	Hello, Commissioner, colleagues. Of course, I think that we should have had this debate three quarters of a year ago, and we should have had information that the European Commission was working on it. For some reason we did not have it, and the Prime Minister went to Rome more or less unprepared to be confronted by the concept of a multi-speed Europe. And his position was: we don't want it. It's like we're free to choose. That's the first point. Okay. We're starting before the election. I think it is appropriate that the Commissioner is here and that we all have the opportunity to talk about it. So what are we dealing with before the election? There is no doubt that with Brexit, the Union stands on its feet and wants to return as a global player, as someone who finances the United Nations most, who gives most to development aid, who pays the most for energy resources, who is the most reliable sort of contractor and who is also the most committed to the stability of its surroundings. We've done quite a lot of work in two years and a lot of steps forward. But it doesn't seem like we're up to it in our current condition. That means, it will either narrow down and only some will act. And it's a question to us whether we want to be there or not. If it is only a social pillar for the eurozone, it is good, because Europe will again be comfortable. If it's other agendas like defense agendas, let's get a grip. But let's talk about whether or not we want to be there, or, as my colleague Fiala thinks, we don't have to be there. That's the question we're going to be dealing with. So it needs to be realized. Of course, the question is what we can contribute and enter at the moment if the eurozone is integrated, because we are not in the euro area. Slovakia has already committed itself to fulfilling the social pillar and will do so. We don't have to. [[Attention on time.]] Thank you. So the whole point is, do we want to be there? And if so, with what? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u25	Thank you. Mr Pavel Kováčik now. Mr Petr Fiala will be prepared with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u26	Thank you for the floor. Commissioner, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are hearing here, in factual terms only, a number of absolutely serious concerns about the future and the questions of how the European Union will proceed further, what ways, in which composition, how at different speeds in its individual parts. And a number of questions that may have been in vain, perhaps less in vain, waiting for answers. The discussion should be absolutely serious, not only on the surface of the statement coming in the context of factual comments or comments. This discussion should be conducted in a meritorous manner. This discussion should be held in the long term. But this discussion should be conducted mainly in the presence of those who, as I have understood from the recent development of the government crisis of the last few hours, will perhaps go to the proper elections and become a pre-election topic. And I don't see either the Prime Minister or any Vice-President of the Government here, even if I'm not fooled by sight or by any president of the coalition government party. I see neither the Minister of the Interior, nor any economic minister, but, as stated in the ranks of our MP, three or four for this matter, quite insignificant ministers who are playing a role here at the moment merely stafáze. [[In the hall are Minister of Culture Herman of KDU-ČSL, Minister of Justice Pelikán of YES, Minister of Transport Ťok of YES and Minister of Human Rights Chvojka of ČSSD.]] In order to move forward, there are four ministers from the government, but those who answer are not here. At this point, I propose that we interrupt this point to at least the presence of Prime Minister and Vice-Presidents of the Government and Foreign Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u27	Thank you. I take that as a procedural proposal, which I will put to the vote without debate. For the sake of clarity, I will repeat your proposal to interrupt the discussion of these two points which are being held by the merged debate to the presence of the Prime Minister or Vice-Presidents of the Government and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Initiating vote and asking who's in favour. I'm sorry. I declare this vote confusing. Colleagues report that they want to sign off before the vote first. So first, I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your cards. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this procedural proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 72, 99 Members are registered, for proposal 49, against 45. This proposal has been rejected and we will continue the debate. Now, therefore, with the factual remark of Mr Petr Fiala. Vice-President Vojtěch Filip will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u28	I understand what Mr. Gabal said. However, his question of whether we want to be there is wrong. We have to ask what we want to be with. That's a big question. It's not like somebody's gonna set something up somewhere, and if we're gonna be in it or we're not. We first need to know when the future of the European Union, which we want to have, is open. Let's talk about that. Let's figure this out. And then, when we know, we can figure out how much we're able to reconcile this idea with others and how much we're able to achieve it. But I'm asking if we want to be there, and I'm saying I don't know. I don't know what. I don't know where this is going. If you ask me such questions - and you said President Fiala doesn't want to be there or need to be. But that's not true. I want to be in the cooperation of European countries. I want to participate in the reform of the European Union. I want to share cooperation where it is beneficial for the Czech Republic, where it corresponds to our national interests. And if we have a specific conversation and you ask me, "do you want to be in the euro area in its current form?"so I'll tell you no, because it is not beneficial for the Czech Republic. And so we could talk about individual things. You want to cooperate on security issues? Yes, I do. I think that's reasonable. But I repeat, not if you want to be there, but let's talk about what we want to be there for and what it's supposed to look like. I never understood when the Prime Minister here told us for three years: we want to be at the hard core, we want to be at the integration core. And what is it today? What does that mean? I mean, those are empty words, empty phrases. If we use empty words, empty phrases, ideology of integrationism, we will find ourselves in a situation where the European Union will not only help us but threaten Europe. And I don't want that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u29	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark, Vice-President Vojtěch Filip will prepare Mr Martin Novotný with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Commissioner, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, I rarely bloody agree with President Fiala, but this time I have to agree with him. Because we do not ask ourselves fundamental questions about the further development in Europe. Please, it's clear there's been an exchange of hegemon in world politics. The former hegemon wants to address his loss of hegemony by war. So, what are we gonna be with? What kind of integration will it be? What fundamental question do we ask ourselves? Please, we are having fun here - now I have a question about how the quotas will be, that Europe wants to impose quotas on us. What quotas? Is the Treaty of Lisbon even valid after Brexit? Has anyone asked about this? Why do MEPs and Commissioners not care when the new negotiations on the Lisbon Treaty start, i.e. the very nature of integration? That is, what Chairman Fiala said, what integration the Czech Republic will be in. And if we don't answer that, I'm sorry, we're gonna be dealing with some tech here. We have heard the technically well-worked report by the Commissioner, but unfortunately she is not answering any fundamental question where this is going! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u31	Thank you, too. Now Mr Martin Novotný's factual remark, Mr Michal Kučera will be prepared with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u32	Colleagues and colleagues, it is not my intention to make a factual remark before being properly registered. I am responding to the debate on the symbolic importance of the absence of the most important representatives of the government on this subject. What's happening in parallel, in sync in the last few days. It is a development after the elections in France, a strong statement by the newly elected French President on the need to deepen integration, particularly in the area of deepening integration in the euro area, and the interaction with the German Chancellor on this matter. Symbolically shortly thereafter, the Czech Prime Minister responds by reopening the issue of the adoption of the euro and setting the deadline for the adoption of the euro without discussion in the Chamber of Deputies. I want to say a sentence that I hope will be understood. I firmly believe that the Czech position in relation to the future of European integration will not become negotiable in the context of the political crisis we are experiencing in this Chamber of Deputies, i.e. that for European support for certain political forces on this political stage in this fight, the same forces will not sell the view of European integration and that they will defend the Czech national interests.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u33	I thank Mr Martin Novotný. Now, Mr Michal Kučera, with a factual remark and another factual comment by Mr Ivan Gabal. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u34	Thank you for the floor. I understand that there are quite serious questions. Those questions are raised both from the mouths of Members of our club and from others, and unfortunately we cannot wait to answer them here, i.e. There aren't those competent here who should comment on this. Because they should say what the current government's attitude will be. And I really don't understand why we didn't interrupt this meeting right now and let the Minister of Transport sit here with the Minister of Justice. This is really undignified, this is an undignified matter. Not only is she undignified, but we can talk to the wall here, we can even stick them on this wall, and that's all we can do with them. The Prime Minister should actually comment on them here, the Vice Prime Minister should comment on them, and the Foreign Minister should comment on them. Without them, I beg you, this talk is really just a talk. We're here criticizing the European Union that there, in quotation marks, it's just chatting, but, for God's sake, what are we doing here now? We're not really gonna get any answers here. So once again, let's think about whether it's worth actually interrupting until the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State are here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u35	Mr. Colleague, do you have this as a procedural proposal or as a consideration? So far, as a matter of fact, okay. We will continue, Mr Gabal, who is claiming a factual point. Another factual point is that of Mr Rom Kostřica. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u36	Hello. I didn't think I was gonna drag the House into unpleasant things today, but I have to. I don't mind the absence of ministers and Prime Minister. First, they know theirs from Rad, because they are experiencing it at full speed when they are there, and secondly, these questions will be answered by the coalition that will emerge from the elections. That's the key thing. This government won't deal with that anymore. Or he'll be prepping, tops. Second thing. If the debate is aimed at making the Czech position: well, tell us first what it will look like, and we will, please, decide accordingly. It rarely sounds as pure a Czech attitude as in this. And we still need a superpower to draw it for us? Or another 26 countries? Austria? Are we willing to take the risk and go to when he's going to make the decision, and in the mill he's going to get his bearings and make his way? Or maybe we'll wait really long to see who sets the bar, then we'll follow it, we'll straighten out according to the classic model. That's a small opinion. I want to be there. Who doesn't? Who's gonna expect someone to prescribe it? Well, wait.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u37	That was Mr Gabal. Now, Mr Kostřica, Mr Karel Fiedler, will prepare to make a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u38	Thank you for the floor. As I have listened to the debate here, especially when it comes to factual remarks, I have come to the impression that I think that we all know very little about it. We in the foreign committee and other Members. It has been mentioned here that there are a number missing, or the main ministers of ours, who are supposed to decide. I don't mind, because I'm pretty sure they know everything about it. I just wanted to ask the Commissioner if it was a secret, whether she was actually speaking to them now and whether they were really well informed or informed enough to allow them not to remain in such an important meeting in the House. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u39	I thank Mr Rom Kostřic. I note that Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek canceled his apology within 13 hours and will attend this meeting. Now, then, Mr Karel Fiedler, with a factual remark, Mr Martin Novotný, also with a factual remark, then I have two priority rights here. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u40	I respond to Mr Gabal's contribution. I think we should know what we're going to discuss. We are witnessing that what was set at the beginning of the enlargement of the European Union is now living in a different European Union than what we wanted to enter. Those conditions are changing. As my colleague Karel Rais and others have rightly said here, we are talking about petty things, about stupid things, about rum and yogurt and other nonsense, and we are not talking about fundamental things. I give my colleague Michal Kučera's opinion as a factual proposal. Let us interrupt this meeting to the presence of the Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and other vice-premieres.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u41	Thank you. I will leave this procedural proposal to the vote without debate. First, of course, I'm gonna go on and check you out, and I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. Once the number of entries has been settled, we will decide on a proposal to suspend negotiations on this point, in the presence of the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, as regards the Vice Prime Minister, that is how it is put to vote. We're going to vote in the 73 vote that I started, and I'm going to ask who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 73. Of the 91 Members present for 45, against 34. Even this proposal was not successful. We will continue with the priority right of the rapporteur, Marek Černoch, who is reporting. And after that is Daniel Herman's priority right of the Minister of Culture. Furthermore, a colleague of Leo Luzar is duly logged in. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u42	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to keep the performance after the opinions that were being expressed here. I agree with my colleague Fiala, and I think we really should know what it's about and what it's about. And it is a decision that really concerns us, because nobody is going to pull the Czech Republic out and put it anywhere else. We can't choose a place where we want to live. We're just in Europe as such. Unfortunately, the situation is changing, and it is changing very rapidly. After the brexit that occurred a year ago, the European Union's self-esteem was awaiting, and it was expected that competent people would be taken by the nose, to put it in the public eye, and they would start acting much more responsible than they had been until then. Because brexit isn't the idea of someone saying I don't want to be here anymore. But it was simply a clear result of a process that has been going on for a long time and that goes on in Europe. Because those countries that talk about wanting to put a referendum, that they think about leaving the European Union, that's still enough. And the moment it happens, there will be a domino effect, and then the situation will be much more complicated, because we, for example, until today, have not seen any analysis and clear plans as we would proceed, so that the damage is as small as possible. And it can happen. I would like to ask if I can, Madam Commissioner, just at a point that has also been mentioned here, and that is yesterday's or yesterday's statement from Brussels on some kind of punishment unless we start acting differently and start fulfilling mandatory quotas. It has even come to such an extent that it has been said that we could be driven to a European court. What's the real situation? What are they talking about? And most importantly, since there was a constant talk about the quota being dead, so did the Prime Minister here, who also... I disagree with my colleague Gabal, there should be government officials here, whether it be the Prime Minister or not, the Minister of Foreign Affairs. And it doesn't matter if it's a future government or if it's this government, because this government still works. And she should say her point of view. So the question to Commissioner Jourová: How will the European Union proceed, and whether it is true that the mandatory quotas are dead, as has been mentioned, or whether they are still in play, because otherwise one of the European Union's top officials could not express himself against the Czech Republic and against other states. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u43	Thank you to the rapporteur. And now the factual remark of my colleague, Mrs Ženíšek, then Mrs Hnyková. Minister Daniel Herman is registered with priority rights, but only after factual remarks. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It has been said here about three times, now the last time from my colleague Marek Černoch and before it was the position of the ODS, then it was the position of the Communist Party that we don't really know what to say. And that we don't know if we can say our position and whether we want to be there or not. Oh, my God, what are we waiting for? We are the European Union, we are part of the European Union, and why should I wait for two states to agree or when the Commission comes up with something? This will not be the Commission that will reform the European Union. And all of you here, as you have spoken, have said that the European Union needs reform. So let's define it, let's say what we want it to be. And why do we want to get rid of this possibility in some way to influence the current process that exists, not that it doesn't exist! We know what the French President said, we know how Angela Merkel and others feel about it. So why does it still sound like we don't actually know if we want to be there because we don't know what they're coming up with? It's up to us! Where is the government's position to tell us who she's already dealt with, if there is a partner in the European Union? If anyone is in contact with the current new French president, let us know exactly how he imagines integration. If anyone is in intensive contact with the German Chancellor, then we can define our position precisely. After all, you have all said that the European Union needs reform! So why do we keep asking that we don't really know and that we have to wait for the Commission to come up with something? This will not be the Commission, it will be the individual states that will reform the European Union. And we are one of those states, and we should be perfectly clear. And I still don't understand the fact that we have to wait or that we don't know if we want to be there. If I am reading the current situation completely rationally, we can see that the only credible of the five scenarios is that there will be a multi-speed Europe. And we need to be clear and clear about what areas we want to be in and in which areas we do not want to be. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u45	Now, Mrs Jana Hnyková, with a point of fact. And then the factual remark made by Mr Petr Fiala. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u46	Thank you for the floor. I would return to our citizens when they are discussing the subject, and again today's series behind me are responsible for Mr Sobotka and the Foreign Minister doing what they want anyway. Because we've already approved the resolution here before, and he's signed off on the advantages to Turkey different from what we wanted here in the Chamber of Deputies. When you talk to the citizens of the Czech Republic, and I believe that you all do it, you know, they ask you the question: What do we really get out of this? That we can travel? Yeah, but we don't really have the advantage, so what's the advantage? We must always submit to something. And now we have expected, and they are very attached to the fact that, in fact, when such a large country as Great Britain came out, they want and call for us to come out of the European Union, too. They see no positive things, only the dictation of Brussels towards our country. And now that the arrival of a new president in France is sounding even more intensely, don't be surprised that there are such large and negative voices in the Czech Republic. In my first speech with the Commissioner, I did not agree with a number of things, but now, perhaps, what she said about how we should proceed, and perhaps I would agree with her opinion. Let national governments have more powers. That's what they deserve. Each country has evolved in some way, has a history, and it needs to be treated individually, not dictated to us as it has been.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u47	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Petr Fiala's point of order now. Mr Daniel Herman's right of priority. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u48	Of course, we can not listen here and we can wage a campaign, I do not deny anyone the right to do so, but I think it is not entirely reasonable that the issue of European integration and the further direction of the EU is too serious. So I would like to turn against what Mr. Ženíšek here said that the ODS is waiting for something. After all, I was calling here in my performances to formulate a Czech national position. Let us talk about what kind of European Union we want. Keep us active. Let's make sure we're looking for an ally for our position, not waiting for something. And if I have responded to Mr Gabal's remark that there is no answer to the question of whether we want to be there, it merely means that we must always tell ourselves what we want to be there, what it will look like, and what we do not want to be there for. But that also means the formulation of a national position, not some passive waiting. I'm the one who's been here in public debate for 10 years, 15 years warning us to wait to see what's invented in Brussels, Berlin, Paris. So that we can be active, so that we know what we want, so that we know what our interests are. What is the Union in which the Czech Republic is supposed to have a strong position? [[12.20 hours]] The ODS has a clear idea, we have the documents that we have presented to the public, there is something to lean on and on. And I'm just calling for this to be discussed across the political spectrum. I'm missing the debate, I'm repeatedly calling for it. I think it's necessary because only if we know what we want can we achieve something. And don't be mad at me, I'm not convinced that it's okay that there aren't key government officials here. It's not okay. I don't think like some colleagues that they know how it is and what they want to promote. They don't know! He speaks in phrases. And when I ask the Prime Minister's Committee on European Affairs what he's going to defend when he's going to the summit, he doesn't really know. He'll tell me what's going on there. [[Attention on time.]] But that's not enough for me. We need to know what Czech interests are.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u49	You've exhausted your time to make a point of fact. One more factual point by the chairman of the Social Democracy Club Roman Sklenák. Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u50	Thank you. I just want to turn against what Mrs Hnyková said here that the Prime Minister will always do whatever he wants, regardless of the position of the Chamber of Deputies. Here from the microphone, from this place it has been said repeatedly in the past, but we are not really lying! Let us take a look at the wording of the House of Deputies' resolution and the date on which it was adopted and look at the Prime Minister's position on a specific matter and when he said so. And you'll find there's no contradiction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u51	I thank the President for keeping the time to make a point of fact. And now we have the priority right of Minister Daniel Herman and then Deputy Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek with priority rights. - I'm sorry, Minister, I forgot the rapporteur's point of view. I'd hate to do that. And now the President of the ODS Club has signed up with the facts. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u52	Thank you. Very fast with your help to the President of the Sklenák Club. I will therefore ask, Mr President: When the Chamber of Deputies voted here to reject visa-free relations with Turkey, what did the Prime Minister say? That he will not follow the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies! That's reality. Don't say things from this counter that aren't true. This is a lie, what you said a little while ago! It's true!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u53	Thank you. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura now with a factual remark, then Mr Roman Sklenák, also with a factual remark. Please, Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u54	Thank you for the floor. Speaking of which, President Petr Fiala. We, as the only political party, have formulated a clear and detailed opinion of the ODS on the EU. I've got it right here. I will then hand it over to the Commissioner, because I think it is good material. I'm not gonna read it to you, I'm just gonna read you the chapter names. And I will ask you, who are seriously debating the future of the EU, to look at it and to have critical comments as well. It's clear material for which we can discuss. Titles of these chapters: the European Union - a chance that we must take better. Four EU crises as an opportunity. Flexible integration. Restoration of balance. What do we want to preserve? What do we want to change? And, of course, there are our proposals, our reform plan. I think that's what finding a national position is supposed to look like. The responsible political party shall formulate its position in detail and seek a national position in dialogue with other political parties. So I'm going to repeat what we've been saying here for at least a year, that we're going to be as strong in Europe as we're going to be at home united. So I urge you to form your own material as far as possible. If not, let's have a critical debate over this material. In addition to being printed, it is on our website. Each of the Members who want to deal with this may withdraw it. I say we welcome the critical, but also the detailed debate that we're not just saying something's wrong. We say what we want to keep, what we want to change, and there is a clear EU reform plan.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u55	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Roman Sklenák's point of fact. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u56	It's just that I insist on my words, and I don't think it's worth dealing with from this place. I'll clear it up with my colleague, Černoch Man, outside this O.R.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u57	Thank you. And now, with priority rights, Minister Daniel Herman. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u58	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, I want to first of all reject as strongly as possible what has been said here by the President of the KSČM Council of Deputies, Mr Kováčik, on unnecessary ministers. I don't know who gave him the right to call ministers useless and useless. This reminds me of the experience I made some 30 years ago, when, by coincidence, one of the members of the Communist Party also included me among the so-called former people. As far as European integration is concerned, I am convinced that, for example, transport, the construction of the rule of law, science and research or culture, that means those who were present at the time, that there are topics that are highly European and link our continent. And as for the discussion itself. I am very pleased that we are having this discussion on the White Paper, and I thank the Commissioner for presenting the basic thesis here. The White Paper outlines several basic ways. There are five principles and it must be said that this is not the end, but the beginning of the discussion. And when we think of the EU as a common house, we often talk about it as a large common house, so this house also has a roof. Sometimes it happens, and from the area of conservation care I have enough experience and information that even a well-built building sometimes needs repair, the roof just sometimes flows into the roof. And now it's up to the residents of that house to say, well, let's just let it go, they'll take over ostrich politics, and they'll start leaking more and more into the roof, or they'll say, let's take the roof off, let's dismantle it - then we can imagine what's going to happen. Or they'll say, let's add up our powers and energy and fix the roof. And I am applying to this thesis, to this policy, so that we can truly, as one of the responsible residents of this common house, participate in the repair of the roof and make it ever stronger and better. And that is only possible if we are full and active members. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u59	Thank you. Now, the factual comment made by the rapporteur, Marek Černoch, and then by Mr Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor on a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u60	Thank you. Your way to President Sklenák. I accept the challenge and give him the opportunity to choose weapons. But at this point, I think it's a little different. It was said here from my colleague Ženíšek that it was actually all defined. This is defined by the fact that France, through the mouth of its new president, connects with Germany, which is a leading state in Europe economically, and it is a state that more or less determines EU policy, with the fact that we need pullers and hitters, so that we are able to enforce the interests of the Czech Republic. It may be defined, but from my point of view, it's the definition, if it's really the definition of what France and Germany say, so I think it's the definition wrong, because what happened in recent years, I think we all remember very well, and unfortunately it's the result of brexit. At least from my point of view. So if this is the definition, let's create a slightly different definition. And I have to say that the European Committee, because the President is not here, so the European Committee has been working on the highest speed during this parliamentary term, which I think even the Commissioner can confirm, and we have tried - and indeed, there is no time for that. If we talk and then we talk again about what we talked about, and this goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. The discussion must be very quick and I think it must be conducted in a way that we will promote the interests of the Czech Republic and we will try to make the Czech Republic better and not make the Czech Republic worse.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u61	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mr Zbyněk Stanjura also with a factual remark, then with priority rights the Vice-President of the Government. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u62	In fact, I would like to respond to the speech of the Minister of Culture. If the attitude and appearance of our entire government is the same as the Minister of Culture, I am very afraid of further developments. What we heard was empty sentences, phrases and floscule. House, roof, leak, fix. We agree on that, it's very simple. But no recipe comes from the government - how. And the government isn't looking for a common national position unlike us. So try, Minister, you too, to look at the material and let's look for a national position. It's not like we're gonna wait, and then somebody comes from Brussels and says, "It's actually settled, right? We have to be in favour now because... And those are the horrible sentences: we must be part of the hard core! We have two lanes of highway and we have to drive faster! What does that mean? What does this mean for the Czech Republic, for its companies and for its citizens? Until we tell each other the specifics, we can talk about houses, roofs, leaks, mainstream, mainstream, hard core, highways, but we're not saying anything specific. Other states act and enforce their national interests! And don't say no. And it's logical, it's natural. We must promote our national interests and seek to promote these goals by allies in Europe, as many Member States do. We're extremely passive from my point of view. We always catch a detail. Our government will deal with a possible lawsuit against Germany for a myth. I know the Minister of Transport doesn't say that, that's correct to say. Totally useless. Yesterday we heard that the European Commission said it was okay. But we who choose the myth, how can we justly criticize others? [[President: Mr President...]] And that was just an example of the government's mere detail -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u63	Mr President, your time for a point of fact has come to an end.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u64	I know, I'll finish the sentence, I'm sorry. She deals with details, and she misses the essentials.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u65	Thank you. Mr. Pavel Bělobrádek's priority right will now be prepared by colleague Luzar. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u66	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'd like to say, I'd be fine with a proper application, but okay. I would like to say that finding a completely common view of the European Union and its priorities is probably not possible in the political spectrum. This means that a national position is probably what the government should first of all give as a clear position. And I think that the government is pro-European, thinking that we should remain part of the European Union. And what doesn't match is some parameters. I think it will be difficult to find them in this political situation and the distribution of political forces. I can say for us that we believe, as KDU-ČSL, that, both politically and economically, it is right for us to strive to be part of the euro area. I believe we should be active. I agree with that. And it's the activity that's very important even on the informal level. Here, I think in many ways our government is not performing as well as it should. I also believe that it is a strategic matter for all of us to be actively involved in the debate on how the European Union will be reformed. What is essential is that I believe that the Czech Republic is active primarily in V4, and I am convinced that we must look for other allies, because Britain's departure is unpleasant for us because in many aspects and in many opinions it has been our ally in the votes. It is very important that we are able to address other countries from our space, especially Austria, but also Slovenia, so that we can find a blocking minority where necessary. What is very important for the future of the European Union is certainly how competences will continue to be shared. I am convinced, and it has been said here that we should, for example, cooperate much more in the security, but also in the fiscal area. It would also be ideal in foreign policy, but I don't see that as real, because we see that opinions vary greatly. On the other hand, I think that some things should come back, and the influence of national parliaments should be increased, and that is the question, above all, of the issues relating to value issues and the legal standards resulting therefrom. So in this regard, I think it will always be difficult to define a national interest that will have a hugely broad, imperceptible consensus across the political spectrum. But we should agree on some basic principles. Yes, we want to be in the European Union, we are the European Union, we have an impact on its operation, we have to be more active there, we have to look for allies. And what is essential for the Czech Republic is that we continue to be a country that is taken seriously. Because as long as we have the same vote, one vote in the Council as Germany has, it still benefits the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u67	Thank you. Now two more factual points. Mr Martin Novotný and Mr Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u68	Colleagues and colleagues. Nothing illustrates to me better that I like the Anglo-Saxon parliamentary environment rather than the Czech one than the performance of my colleague Bělobrádek just moments ago. Because we can't find them in the attic The Chamber of Deputies for the diversity of opinions is a unified position of the Czech Republic, so the position of the government is important. We can talk about it, I guess constitutionally that's for sure. On the other hand, try to imagine the British Parliament and its meeting, which would take place in a spirit such as the meeting of our Chamber of Deputies, where the Prime Minister or Prime Minister would be absent when we open the topic of our position on the future of European integration. It is always the British parliamentarianism, when at such moments the Prime Minister is passionately defending the position of his party or his government, passionately trying to gain the support of the Chamber of Deputies for this position, passionately trying to find the unity and engages intensively in it. And it is this model, which then acquires a kind of civil public relationship that can take a positive or negative view of it, but does not feel that it is happening about her without it. For me, the performance of my colleague, Mr Bělobrádek, meant the exact opposite, i.e. that we will continue to formulate this position in a cabinet manner. This is the best way to lose loyalty to the European Union to the Czech public.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u69	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Stanjura's point of fact. Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u70	I would also like to respond to Mr. Vice Prime Minister's performance, which I think correctly said that we should try to find allies in the V4. And I agree with that. On the other hand, in recent months, we have seen the European Commission's efforts, the European Parliament, to enter into internal political conditions in Hungary and Poland in a very strong way. What have we done for these potential allies of ours, or for our existing allies whose support I believe we will seek in promoting our national interests? Nothing! We have often added to this the mouths of the MEPs of specific political parties. And I consider it a big foreign policy mistake at this point. And what is the result? Many of you must have received the same message from the platoon a few minutes ago that the European Parliament will address the threat of political media abuse at its meeting on 1 June. Our faction was against it. I would like to ask the Christian Democrats, the Social Democrats and the ANO movement how their factions have progressed. Whether the vote of their Members... I have already heard that their Members disagree. Were they able to enforce this view? They haven't been able to enforce! And we often say here that there is a threat of media abuse in political warfare. But we are saying that we should settle this at home, in the Czech Republic, and not go to Brussels to sue, not be included in some list of suspicious non-democratic countries. What have your MEPs done? How did they let that happen? And you're in those factions that have most of them. How did the EPP faction or the European Socialist Party or the Liberals proceed? They want to beat us up, and they're gonna beat us up on June 1st! Not our factions!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u71	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Karel Schwarzenberg's point of order now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u72	Mr President, honourable Members. This debate lacks some charm because I still hear how every politician, especially from the government coalition, is pro-European. However, I lack a decisive act. I lack a clear decision that we will adopt the euro as soon as possible. This is the only way to keep really in the mainstream of the European Union. And how much we are really prepared to issue for European security and defence. Here is one missing - the courage to defend it against its own voters, defend this position against some Czech media and once, as a Czech politician, say a clear and decisive word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u73	I thank Mr Karel Schwarzenberg for his time on the point of fact, and therefore now Mr Leo Luzar, duly signed up for the debate. Mrs. Jitka Chalánková will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u74	Mr President, Commissioner, I apologize to my absent colleague Votav for warming his chair. I hope I haven't done irrecoverable damage to her. In my performance, I'm going back to the basics, which means the White Book. It has 36 pages. So it's not like there's a bichle that no one can read. In my opinion, many of my previous speakers have not even read it. They only discuss current feelings and problems. The White Book is quite interesting. Unfortunately, it has some shortcomings that I will try to summarize and say what I see in it from the perspective of a Czech citizen, a Czech elector, a representative of the Czech electorate in our Parliament. The first and possibly the main thing is that Mr. Juncker is signed under it. A person who, in my opinion, and the opinions of many of our citizens, has lost the credibility of leading Europe after Europe's failure within Brexit. We all see this failure, and if it is a person who has not mastered Europe's diplomacy to keep Europe united, it does not, in my view, represent a person who would be able to present a vision for Europe to come. That, in my opinion, is perhaps the basic issue of the credibility of the report itself. The Commissioner mentioned the euro at first. My previous speaker spoke of him. I will also mention the euro briefly. The euro's problem is not when, the euro's problem is how much. If the euro is one in one, all citizens will want us to accept the euro tomorrow. If the euro is one in forty, we will never want the euro. Let's face it. This will be a fundamental problem for citizens. And when we get to the real euro exchange rate one-in-nine, I don't think citizens are gonna be against us going to the single euro. It may be a problem for entrepreneurs, but certainly not for citizens. This is a fundamental question that we are not discussing at all, and maybe we should start leading it. And perhaps, from the mouth of the Czech National Bank and other institutions, there should be prepositions and estimates as to how it will be with the European currency towards the Czech Crown when this political decision takes place. In order to tell citizens nice citizens, the conversion course will be such, orientally. We are not having this debate at all, and I consider it the most important in terms of access to the euro. As far as the report is concerned. Personally, I must appreciate page six, where it is spoken - such a small picture below - 70 years in peace. This is an element which, in my opinion, is the most important part of Europe's function. That we have managed to keep peace in this continent for so long. This, in my opinion, could even come first as regards the role of the European Union. What is the problem of the European Union is its breakdown. We have the European Union, the European zone, the Schengen area, the Council of Europe, the European customs union, and then NATO comes into this. There's a beautiful picture in the material if you ever have time to look at it. And maybe that's the problem. That they intersect each other's interests, but they're partially separated by the fact that the interest is not uniform. And the disunity of Europe is then reflected in what Europe is doing. On the next page, there is talk of a factor influencing Europe's future. I'm gonna try to deliberately avoid the five scenarios because they're, let's just say, visions. More or less Europe, or somewhere in balance. There isn't a single word in the whole material about bureaucracy. And if you ask a Czech citizen what's bothering him most about Europe, a slightly familiar citizen will tell you - European bureaucracy bothers me. And now mostly bureaucracy, unelected by anyone. I am not talking about the European Parliament, I am talking to those who are not elected, have no responsibility for voters, and yet decide. That, in my opinion, is the basic premise which should be in the material and is not. If we are to do something about Europe for the future, we must limit European bureaucracy. And there may be more Europe, but without European bureaucracy, without any unelected officials deciding where Europe will go instead of elected representatives of Europe. In my opinion, the sentence that is in the material and talks about the diplomacy of the European Union is at the beginning of the European Union's decay. It says: "Her diplomacy has real weight and helps make the world safer and more sustainable. " Here I think that Europe has fundamentally failed, and I can recall the role of France and Italy in the Libyan conflict that was at the beginning of the migration crisis. It didn't work out. These two states now do not claim to do so, leaving Libye at the mercy of sectarian wars. Even if they were the ones who helped reverse the situation in Libya - I think military reverse - and plunged this country into the chaos of non-management. What position have these strong European states taken to change the system in Libya and there has been peace? None. We just started something, and we don't really do it anymore. Řecko's krize. How long has the European Union been dealing with it? I don't think the Řek will accept this material. For one simple reason, they have stopped believing in the European Union. It's a big problem, it's an international problem. But in detail, it is a problem of Germany's approach to poor Greece and mutual debt. There's no answer. If I take a global view of this matter, the European Union must take a step forward, but it cannot do so without solving its own affairs and the feeling of its own citizens about the importance of the European Union. And how does the importance or sense of belonging to the European Union build up? That citizens will find themselves in it and that they will stop feeling like second-class citizens in a single country. I personally acquired that second category feeling a year and a half ago, two years ago, when France and Germany agreed on a separate approach. For the first time, there was a second-speed Europe. That was the moment that changed the perception of a united Europe. And I do not know if you, colleagues, realize that this material that we are discussing today is merely the result of this agreement between these two states, that it will be a two-speed Europe. Because they are unable to cope with the problems they have caused on the outskirts of Europe, see Greece. When I return to that trust in the European Union. We have here exemplary examples of a citizen losing confidence in the European Union. *** [[12.50 hours]] When I return to that trust in the European Union. We have here exemplary examples of a citizen losing confidence in the European Union. It has already been said that ministers are here, and it has also been said from my previous speakers - the European myth, the great challenge of the European Union. Where is he? How did we, but Europe in particular, contribute to this? Where are the European speed railroads when individual states prevent competition from entering their markets? Where is European law? Here I will turn to the Commissioner, who has expressed in this spirit. Did the Volkswagen commit a crime when they have to pay compensation in America, and Europe pretends that there is no such problem? He cheated, didn't he? Is he to be punished or not to be punished? Are European citizens different from American citizens in access to law and in view of law? How does an American citizen feel about this? Yes, the big group cheated, so let them pay. How does a European citizen feel about this? Yes, the big group cheated, but it's ours, so he gets away with it. That may be a small thing, but it is quite serious in the perception of citizens about the role of the European Union, how the European Union should be and how it should affect its citizens. I will mention the last thing that points to Europe's inaction or the confusion of Europe's function in the context of the current situation. Long-disputed restrictions on legal weapons holders. We've been discussing it here for a long time. How is it possible that the European Union will admit that false arguments are being used? Evidence that they were trying to push through this debate, and eventually to push through, used false, sometimes false arguments that might have made Europe's marginal problem feel that it was necessary to do so. Has anyone punished those officials, the unelected officials, who used false arguments to enforce anything? The European Union has acted by saying yes; these arguments have been used that are false. I have not heard that Europe would draw the consequences of being caught in false arguments. And that's what stays here. And here are 300,000 citizens holding a legally armed license and calling for the Czech Republic's withdrawal from the European Union. And how do we respond to that? How did Juncker react to the voices of the Brit that they wanted to leave the European Union? He even threatened. How does it respond to the votes of citizens of the Czech Republic who have a problem with the decision of the European Union, whether it concerns these weapons or, for example, migration, as has been said here? He's threatening himself. And by threatening you, you can never build trust. I would like to point out here that if Europe is to do something for the future, it is to build confidence in Europe. And the last steps that Europe takes at five years of age are very successful in breaking that trust. A large part of this material, compared to others, even on three pages, is the reason why Europe is to free up the approach of the new people of Europe. How we are dying out, how we are dwindling, how we are getting older, how we are losing our workforce, and how much Europe needs millions of new citizens by 2030. There is no mention that we are unable to produce them, that Evropan do not want to give birth to more children, but there is talk of their need. In other words, the material is also about Europe's urgent need for migrants. Is that right? Does the material serve as justification or solution? In other words, when we adopt this book on Europe's vision as a starting material, do we automatically agree that Europe will have to expand by millions of citizens of other regions? There's no answer. And the future of Europe as part of enlargement. This material says that Europe will not be expanding with new members in the near future. I ask, what about the hopes of millions of Ukrajinec who were promised something? Has anyone ever told them that the doors to the European Union are closed? What about other states? What about the Eastern Partnership, so much discussed in times of the European Union, when it was alongside the United States of Power's ambitions and promised worldwide, in Europe's countries on the outskirts of Europe, like Georgia and other, close association with Europe? What will be the EU's foreign policy? There's no answer to that in either of those scenarios. Only assurance that Europe will not be expanding anytime soon. These are the challenges that Europe has historically made, and today it does not claim them, or does not know the solutions, or does not want to address them. And if Europe doesn't answer that, then there's no point in talking about the new visions of Europe, and which way it should go, because first I have to sweep my own threshold before I open the door and see where to go next. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u75	I thank Mr Leo Luzar for his speech. Now, with a factual remark, Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek. Please, Mr Vice-President, you have the floor on a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u76	Thank you, Mr President. I'll respond to my colleague Stanjura. The faction voted mostly in favour, I consider it a big mistake. MEPs voted against for KDU-ČSL, unfortunately it was initiated according to my data by colleagues from our faction from the Czech Republic, not KDU-ČSL. And I believe that dirty laundry is to be fought at home. It is a matter that will damage the image of the Czech Republic completely for nothing, because it will look like that all media in the Czech Republic are controlled. This is a fundamental mistake, and I will certainly define myself against this at the meeting of the European People's Party and its leaders.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u77	I thank the Prime Minister, Mr Bělobrádek, for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Stanjura's point of order now. Before that, I shall read the apologies received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. My colleague Skopeček apologizes for today's and tomorrow's negotiations for personal reasons, Mr Klaška between 11.30 and 12.30 for work reasons, Mr Jan Farský apologizes from 12 to 14 hours for work reasons, Mrs Věra Kovářová today until 11 o'clock for personal reasons and extends her apology until 11.30 o'clock. Mr. Stanjura's point of fact. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u78	Thank you for the floor. First of all, I would like to thank the Vice Prime Minister for his answer, but also for the content of the answer. I have the exact same opinion, and we citizens of the Democrats share that view. I would like to thank the ministers who are present, but at the same time I would like to strongly criticise the absence of other members of the government and the relatively small participation of us, Members. I want to apologize to the Commissioner for the second time that she is here, and we are not once able to complete the debate and adopt a resolution. I don't think that's right. We consider European policy to be extremely important and, for the next time, I ask the government coalition to find a more dignified term when we will be negotiating with the Commissioner, so that the government here is, as far as possible, in the strongest possible representation, so that we can actually seriously debate these key issues. We're sorry. We, even though we are labeled by all our political opponents, are Eurorealists. What we're saying today, we said ten years ago, other people are saying it now. It doesn't matter what happened ten years ago and say we were right. What matters is what happens. And it is a pity that we have wasted the debate with the Commissioner for the second time today because we are unable to conclude this debate, to find a resolution and to begin to formulate a national position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u79	I thank Mr Zbyněk Stanjur for his point of view. [[Mrs Chalankova is waiting outside the speaker's desk for a word.]] Since it is 12:59 p.m., I do not consider it to be a dignified colleague of Chalánková to give the floor to a performance that is not limited in time. Since it is not possible to continue at this moment and no one has proposed to vote on the continuation of this meeting, I believe that it is possible for us to continue, as my colleague Stanjura said in this debate, to transfer it to the political grémium on Tuesday, because I do not think that we could set a date tomorrow morning, and I think that we can take it as my own, both as President and colleague Stanjura, who proposed it, on Tuesday for that topic. I'm declaring a lunch break at the moment. We'll continue with oral interpelations that are already drawn at 2:30 p.m. Thank you and I wish you a good meal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-004-999.u80	Good afternoon, honourable Members, Prime Minister. It's Thursday afternoon, so we'll deal with the oral question. Before I begin them, allow me to read the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, first of all, that a positive report for you: the Minister of Transport Ťok, who will be present, cancels his apology. For work reasons, Mr Sedláček apologizes from this afternoon's meeting. Mr Martin Plíšek apologizes further between 14:30 and 18:00. Mrs Nytrová also apologizes from 14.30 to the end of the day, and Mr Gabal also apologizes from 14.30 to the end of the day. Minister of Environment Richard Brabec also apologizes for the afternoon part for work reasons. Furthermore, Minister Daniel Herman apologizes for the whole afternoon from 14.30 to the end of the day. She also apologizes to Mrs Miroslava Němcová for the same term, Mr Havíř also for the whole afternoon and Mr Martin Komárek. Now we can begin the interpelation.
