ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-009-033.u1	33. The Senate Bill amending Act No. 234/2014 Coll., on Civil Service, as amended /German press 798/ - second reading Under the authority of the Senate, the Senator Mr. Jiří Oberfalzer will present the motion. Alternatively, there is... yes, we have the Senator present. So please, Senator, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-009-033.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be brief. The initial impetus to this proposal was that the Civil Service Act does not provide for an exemption from the requirement of education for the lowest categories of civil servants, namely officials and experts. While education is forgiven for all other categories, though it may, that is, from the Council to the Ministerial Council and other levels. I made a simple proposal so that the exception could also apply to these lowest positions. Of course, everything with the approval of the superiors. This, however, was not the case for the workers of the Ministry of the Interior, in particular the Deputy Postránecký, because this exemption was actually of a lasting nature. Therefore, he proposed that these people extend the period of compulsory education by five years. Consequently, it would not be necessary for employees who do not fulfil this condition immediately after the decisive date of 30 June of this year to abandon their performance in the public administration. This would bring considerable difficulty to many authorities, both the Financial Administration and the Cadastral Authorities and, in particular, social security. There are even several hundred people. The Deputy Director therefore came up with a counter-proposal approved by the Senate. Here in the committees I marched, I would say, with understanding of this proposal. In particular, an adjustment has yet to be adopted in the constitutional committee, which alleviates this measure, namely that it takes into account the age and length of experience of an individual employee. It is therefore in the amendments to the solution that the obligation to obtain supplementary education, either a secondary education certificate or a senior degree, would not apply to employees over 50 years of age with at least 20 years of experience. So let's say in the age categories, where it would already be a little absurd. The Constitutional Committee has adopted a number of amendments that already come from the workshop of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior. In principle, I have a favourable relationship with these proposals, and I think that if you support them, it will cause no problem in the Senate and they will be accepted. So much for my part, and I'll ask for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-009-033.u3	Thank you, Senator, for submitting your proposal. We ordered the proposal in the first reading to be discussed by the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. Furthermore, the press was directed to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, the Economic Committee and the Social Policy Committee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 798/2 to 7. I ask that the rapporteur of the Constitutional Committee, Mr Jeroným Tejc, take the floor, inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-009-033.u4	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning, I would like to thank both the representatives of the petitioners Mr Oberfalzer and all the colleagues in the committee and the representatives of the Ministry of the Interior who took part in this discussion for the debate in question and, above all, for being able to reach consensus on not making a tearing calendar out of the Service Act now. This means that the basic rule that we have laid down is that all amendments have been consulted by the Ministry of the Interior, with their legislation, and at the same time we have tried to find maximum consensus in the committee so that these changes are not voted out by one vote on the axis of the coalition - the opposition. And I think the result in that sense was a success. This means that the proposals are not only rational but also defensive. As the Senator has already said, the main purpose of the bill was to seek relief from those who did not meet the qualification conditions of education at a certain level for entry into the public service, even though these people usually work in that particular place for ten or twenty years, often longer, have experience, there are no problems with them, and only in quotation marks formally do not fulfil this condition of education. I would like to stress that this is a condition of the level of education achieved. It is not that these individual officials would be allowed not to educate themselves and that they might not have to go through compulsory training, for example, to educate themselves, which, of course, not only did they have to, but they will have to continue. We are also coming out of this, and I think it needs to be mentioned that unfortunately, and I say twice unfortunately, the quality of education in the Czech Republic is falling in recent years and it is often said that today some higher education degrees from some schools, and I stress some, are below the level of graduation twenty-thirty years ago. I think we should be aware of that, too. And it would probably be pointless, but it would also be inefficient, so that officials and clerks who are very good at their work aren't the problem with them, they're forced to go to a school that... Alternatively, they left a specific place, a public service only because they should formally meet a condition which, moreover, often may not be of benefit, because the law provides for a condition of a certain degree of education, but does not say that it should be an education in the field. This means, for example, in a financial office, it would be sufficient for a person to complete the training of a gardener, but I do not know if it is in itself a guarantee that the work of an official of a financial office will be done any better. Although it is certainly commendable and would certainly have more insight into how this field works. I would like to stress that we have therefore agreed that it is not possible to give immediate exceptions. This means that one who is already in the public service may not qualify for education. And, as has already been said here, for people over 50 years of age, if they have more than 20 years of experience in administrative office, municipal office or regional office, this condition could be forgiven. Of course, it would apply to the others, because, as has already been said, there is no reason for someone who is 30 years old who does not meet the condition of education to be excluded from this obligation. And it has been discussed here that the Constitutional Committee has discussed and also supported a number of amendments. I'll start with the one he didn't support. It was considered that a recruitment allowance of up to 100 thousand could be granted where, for example, there will be three unsuccessful tenders. Crowns. The committee did not support this matter. It is not part of the amendments and it is a question of whether or not it will appear at second reading. Then there are things that, in our opinion, will clearly make it easier for both the office and, above all, for example. the applicant for admission to the selection procedure. Today, such an applicant must undergo a health inspection, document it and submit it at all times in each selection procedure despite the fact that it is not selected. He'd make a new statement of honor, and he'd go through that tour, and he wouldn't be able to prove until he was chosen. I mean, it's got some kind of rational basis. Likewise, it is not necessary, for example, that if 50 or 60 applicants are in a specific selection procedure, they all go through the oral interview, as is now ordered. It will be possible for a written examination to take place if there are more than ten candidates and then with at least five of the most successful candidates, an oral interview will be carried out. [[18.40 hours]] We are aware of the need to address the issue of medical assessment services. If there were a 70-year-old restriction, then in 2017, up to a third of doctors in this medical assessment service would not meet this condition, which means that they would have to be replaced and it is a question of whether it would have succeeded so quickly. Service passes are adjusted so that they can contain a chip and can serve as entrances to buildings, for example. The question of the deadline for submitting applications for tenders must be addressed, which must be at least ten days. We have also decided that in extremely difficult cases it is possible to occupy a post on a temporary basis under the Labour Code, not under the Service Act, but for a maximum of six months and not in the Superiors, that is, for example, for ordinary officials. The amendments are quite a lot, but since I have spoken for a long time, I would like to refer to the Committee's press of 12 January 2017, resolution No. 278 of the 79th meeting, when the Committee recommended discussing this press and adopted amendments to it, most of which I briefly commented on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-009-033.u5	I thank the rapporteur. Now we have to deal with this. Next, Mr Bendl, the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, should take the floor, but I don't see him anywhere here. I do not see Mr Michal Kučera's economic committee rapporteur either. So if they can hear me and they're in the building, please, they're in the O.R. I would ask for information on the discussion within the Committee by the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy, Member Radka Maxová, to take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the proposal and, if necessary, to justify the amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-009-033.u6	Thank you, Mr President. At its 48th meeting, on 15 December 2016, the Social Policy Committee discussed this amendment to the Civil Service Act, because we know that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs will submit an amendment or will be incorporated into a comprehensive amendment from the Constitutional Legal Committee concerning the extension of the age of medical assessors. After the reasons given by the petitioner, Senator Jiří Oberfalzer, news report by Radka Maxová and after the debate by the Committee on Social Policy, the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic first recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to agree with the Senate proposal amending Act No. 204/2014 Coll., on Civil Service, as amended; Second, empowers the Committee's rapporteur to present the Committee's opinion to the Chamber of Deputies meeting and, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adaptations; Thirdly, we asked the Deputy Minister for the Civil Service, Josef Postránecký, to submit an opinion to committee members within 30 days on the possibility of using contract doctors in the medical assessment service, including administrative and financial security. This is the resolution of the Committee on Social Policy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-009-033.u7	Thank you to the rapporteur. I ask that Mr Václav Horáček take the role of rapporteur for the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-009-033.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the resolution of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development: The Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development at its 50th meeting, after the reasons given by Senator Jiří Oberfalzer, after the report by Mr Ing. Petr Bendl and after the debate (a) recommends that the Chamber of Deputies discuss and approve 798 in the version submitted; (b) empowers the Committee's rapporteur to present the resolution to the Chamber of Deputies; (c) Instructs the Chair of the Committee to send the resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-009-033.u9	Thank you, rapporteur. I ask the President of the Economic Committee of Mr Ivan Pilný to take up the role of rapporteur on this press. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-009-033.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, the resolution of the Economic Committee of 14 December 2016 reads as follows: Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after hearing the opening words of Senator Jiří Oberfalzer, the report by Mr Michal Kučera and after a general and detailed debate I. calls for the current state of affairs of Act No. 234/2014 is particularly unsatisfactory in relation to open selection procedures and non-systemic provision of exemptions under this Act; II. Instructs the Committee rapporteur to present a report at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on the results of the discussion of this draft law in the Economic Committee; III. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. That is the resolution of the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-009-033.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I am opening a general debate in which Mr Jan Klán first came forward. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-009-033.u12	Thank you for the floor. Good evening, Mr. Vice-President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Senator. Allow me, overall, to make a few comments on the amendment to the Civil Service Act under discussion here. I call this law an exception law. The exception, the other exception, how many exceptions are yet to come, I don't know. We're gradually putting out a single partial outbreak of fires. I'm sorry that the State Service Guarantee, the Ministry of the Interior, hasn't come up with any complex amendment to solve some of the problems in a year since the Civil Service Act has already been in place. Instead, an amendment from the Senate has arrived, and, as has already been said at first reading, so many amendments will come. I have taken the various amendments with me. We consulted them with the rapporteur, but the amendments confirm that the approved Civil Service Act was poorly prepared in 2013, 2014. As the development gradually progressed, it was poorly prepared. The MP's proposal, after all this has been going on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. That's for starters. The quality of the law itself can therefore be likened to the purchase of a coat with many holes that are gradually patched with these amendments, and we are making one exception, the other exception, the third exception. Then there'll be another one. I wonder which ministries will come to want another exception. I wouldn't be surprised, ladies and gentlemen, if the next political guarantee that will come out of this year's new elections to the Chamber of Deputies canceled that law. He's a nuisance to her because he can't basically change all the officials in his ministries. It's a problem. I agree, of course, with the tenders that there was a problem. This, of course, needs to be adjusted, I agree with that. However, I have here a question for the rapporteur when, in the amendment adopted in the Constitutional Legal Committee, I do not know exactly where it is. I think it's Section 11. I have a question as to why the role of HR is strengthened at the expense of the State Secretary. I just want to know the answer. I don't want to play with any speculation here, but I'd like to ask. The rapporteur here spoke of a recruitment allowance. I strongly opposed the state contribution, against the recruitment contribution, because in my opinion it would be highly discriminatory, because someone would have it and others would not have it, because they would not have it. For this reason, I did not want there to be an amendment that would come from the constitutionally legal committee. We did not have a problem with other amendments. Nor do I have a problem with the fact that there will even be an exception to education, that the person who has reached the age of 50 will have an exception when he has worked for a maximum of 20 years in an administrative office or in the European Union. As Mr Tejc has already said here, some higher education degrees are currently quite devalued when, for example, Bachelor's degrees are equal to a graduation exam. He said on the committee that the graduation exam some 15 years ago was equal to, for example, a bachelor's exam, which is de facto true. [[18.50 hours]] I remember when I graduated in 2002, that level of graduation was completely different than it is at present. So this bachelor's exam is quite often replaced by seniors. And it's a shame because we're getting into such a vicious circle where we breed many college students and college students of bachelor's degrees, and then we don't know where to go with them. So I don't really have a problem with the exception of 50 years - 20 years. I agree with that. Even though I didn't vote for the law. I note that when the law was formed, we did not support it precisely for the reasons that we knew there would be many problems. Because the law was very quickly passed and under pressure, whoever it was at the time. If I look at the exceptions, we've already discussed an exception for the ambassador here. Of course, we had a bit of a problem with that, when the legal age limit of 70 was breached, there was an exception. I'm waiting for another exception to come here so that the age can be completely abolished, because for some people, it's probably a pretty big obstacle. As far as the medical examiners are concerned, I understand, of course, that the senát is going the way to avoid the fire in the civil service. I've also spoken to Mr. Postránecký, so I understand this exception. But it's all inconclusive. We're dealing with these things here, because there's a law, and we're still going to be putting some kind of exception into it. One, two, three, I already told you. So we're running into the age of 70 again. And there are many other things in that law, such as the exception to the assumption of education. It's the last paragraph in the service bill that denies the entire service bill. When I asked the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development how many officials asked for exemption, we have some figures. So the implementation of the Service Act is quite problematic. I expected more exceptions, of course. I do not know what is in the amendments that colleagues and colleagues will be reading. I hope there won't be a recruitment allowance because I'm really against it because it's discriminatory and goes against the idea of expertise. You don't hire experts for the recruitment allowance, but those who don't know much and don't know much. So we're going the other way. They'll just pick up the uneducated, I'll be straight with you. I'm afraid of this because the recruitment allowance is discriminatory. Therefore, we will not support this recruitment contribution if it is loaded in any amendment, I am saying this in advance. At the same time, I say that we will probably support the law at that final stage, even though we did not vote for the original version. The point is that the state administration doesn't catch fire, because there are a lot of problems that occur in individual ministries, and I'm really waiting for another ministry to come, whether it's the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs that came up with opinion doctors or coming up, I don't know, Minister Brabec, that he wants an exception, we've already dealt with here once a contradiction between the state service and the state environmental inspection. I think we've also been dealing with competition issues here. There's always something, and something comes up. That is why I would appeal to the Ministry of the Interior to prepare - I do not know if this will happen during this term or next term - a really complex amendment to the civil service, which will reflect all the problems that will occur at the time of implementation of this year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-009-033.u13	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. The President Stanjura shall declare with priority the application for the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-009-033.u14	Thank you for the floor. I have a procedural proposal. On behalf of the two MPs - ODS and ČSSD - I propose that we act on a case-by-case basis and, where appropriate, vote if a motion for a vote is made, on this draft law after 19 o'clock, that means that we would negotiate it and then the day of the hearing will be closed. As long as the House agrees. Just this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-009-033.u15	Thank you. This is a procedural proposal. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby one more time. I'm registering the check-out request. The number of votes has already settled at 76. The proposal was whether we could negotiate this point even after 19 o'clock. I am opening the vote on this proposal. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? This is a 155 vote, 94 Members voted in favour of proposal 77, against 3. This proposal was adopted. So we can continue to discuss this point. In fact, Mr Tejc is reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-009-033.u16	Thank you. I would just like to answer, as rapporteur, the question raised here by Mr Klán. The point is that the HR director will be newly included in the list of bodies that can issue the service regulations. It is more legislatively technical from my point of view, because it was strange that he was not among the list - because who else should issue the regulations of the service rather than the personnel director? He is also expanding his ability to apply to the Civil Service Deputy's tender, he is his deputy, and he has not yet been able to report to this post in the event of release. So I think they're texts that might come out of their ears because they have their logic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-009-033.u17	Thank you, too. I do not see another factual point, so Mrs Maxová is next in line with her application for the debate. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-009-033.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Today we have a second reading of the Senate bill amending the Civil Service Act on the House's agenda. I would like to draw attention here to the fact that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs wants to take advantage of this opening of the law. And I'll tell you how. From 1. 7. 2017 threatens to collapse medical assessment services not only in connection with this law, but its condition is critical already today. I was the first to bring this situation out loud in cooperation with social inclusion in the spring of 2015, and to this day we are constantly under pressure from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. They are public - closed round tables, conferences, repeated discussions on the Committee on Social Policy in order for this Ministry to take action on the matter. We have repeatedly offered help in finding solutions. However, the offer was not answered, and even the MPSV, through Deputy Minister Merhautová and Secretary Marksová, critically denied this condition. For example, we can trace the meeting of the Social Policy Committee of 23 June 2016 in the audio recording and then from the comments of the Minister for Lightning. Just for starters, what and who's the medical review service. It is a relatively important body that falls under the MPSV and actually evaluates claims for disability, care allowances, disability cards, aids for disabled people, and it must be said that this concerns about 3 million of our residents. Why collapse? Employees, doctors and administrative staff fall under the Civil Service Act. Under this law, the age of a worker in service is permitted only until the age of 70. For this reason it will be from 1. 7. 2017 miss in medical assessment service almost half of assessors. Some 55 of the 448 are already missing. [[19.00 hours]] The work of a medical examiner is extremely unattractive under the current system and the recruitment of new doctors is almost impossible. That is why I would like to thank the rank review doctors here for their work and confirm that I will do everything in my power and abilities to improve the conditions for their work. Already, according to the Practicing Doctors' Association, there are cases where the applicant dies before it is assessed. The current usual period for granting the benefit is six months, but there is no exception for years. A poor decision to assess the application, a long time to assess, poor information may also lead the applicant into execution. I'm sure the press conference that I organized confirmed that this was the case. The basic medical assessment data are these, just so you know why I'm involved in this matter. 448 doctors currently work in medical assessment service. That's just 304 of the Civil Service. Overcoming the age of 70 years, derogation from the Government Decree until the end of June 2017. 144 doctors end up at 30. 6. 2017 and 55 doctors are already missing. Expected development of medical status in the assessment service: 2016 - 477 doctors, 2017 - 290, 2018 - 280, 2019 - 269 and 2020 - 263 doctors. The number of assessments in 2015: 430 thousand overall assessment, which had to be carried out by the medical assessment service, of which almost 143 thousand concerned disability, 142 thousand concerned the care allowance and 91 thousand concerned the disability card. And the worst, age distribution of assessors in 2015: 3% are doctors between 80 and 90 years of age, 15,7 % are doctors between 70 and 79 years of age, 34.7 % are doctors between 60 and 69 years of age, 29,2% are doctors between 50 and 59 years of age, 13,5 % 40 to 49 years of age and 3.9 are young doctors 30 to 39 years of age. What solutions are proposed by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. The easiest part. Open the Civil Service Act and allow doctors who reach or have reached the age of 70 to stay away from the service until the end of 2021. But I'm asking what's going on? Nothing. It will only lead to a deterioration of the situation and the subsequent collapse of the medical assessment service. In recent weeks, the Minister argued that the medical assessment service had managed to cope with a situation where 200 judges were missing, but she probably forgot that the Civil Service Act had not yet existed at that time, and it also did not argue whether the length of the proceedings had been extended. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs wants to deal with a higher financial evaluation by medical assessors. According to the newly approved standard, assessors fall into a group of officials, along with IT specialists and lawyers, where they can be evaluated by up to double. But the Minister has neglected to ask for an increase in the budget in this regard, so I just hope that she will find this salary in her budget. Special surcharge for neuropsychological load and non-attractiveness of activity. Will the thousand crowns proposed by the Minister change anything? The use of contract doctors. But that again runs counter to the Civil Service Act. According to the Secretary of State's staff, the conclusion of agreements on non-employment work can only be granted exceptionally in the Service Office, on the ground that the service authorities, as executors of the State Administration, are owned by the administration, i.e. activities under Section 5 of the Civil Service Act, which they perform through their civil servants in service or, where appropriate, employees in employment. An agreement on the execution of work or an agreement on work activities may only be concluded to ensure works of a lesser extent not involving the performance of the administration and, in certain exceptional cases, to ensure works of a lesser extent relating to the performance of the administration. This will include auxiliary, service and manual work and physical measurements, chemical analysis and comparison and determination of technical parameters. Contracting doctors, if any, may only carry out preparatory work, do not have an assessment doctor's certificate. The decision given by a doctor without a medical examiner's certificate is not valid. By the way, testimonials from forensic medicine today do not meet 38% of medical examiners. Excuse me, that's the same thing as going with a sore tooth to an eye doctor. And what's really bothering me is that the salary of an tested and untested doctor is the same. It's a different evaluation. Medical examiner 13th grade, contract 5th grade. Greater use of existing administrative staff in the preparation of supporting documents for medical assessors. Yes, there was a pilot project March - April 2016. We also think that the Committee on Social Policy is relatively successful. In June, we were told by the Ministry of Labour that everything is being analysed and so far we do not know the results of the analysis. These are basically merely matters why I will read the amendment in a detailed debate. We think that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs should follow up on two studies which it has already prepared for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs for Petr Nečas. It is a study by IBM and Deloitte, which independently confirmed that the current functioning of the medical assessment service is unsustainable, and proposed radical change. It is true that a meeting of representatives of all political parties was convened in December, where this state and the proposed solution were proposed by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to extend the retirement age or from the state administration by five years. These representatives of all political parties agreed that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs did not deserve a five-year extension, and it was unanimous agreement that we would support only two years, for very clear reasons, which the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs historically shows us, their approach. So I will apply to my amendment, which is prepared for a comprehensive amendment by the constitutionally-legal committee that proposes five years, and I will propose two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-009-033.u19	Thank you, ma'am. With a factual remark, Mr Ivan Pilný is registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-009-033.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to make a factual point in explaining why the Economic Committee at its meeting, at its meeting, adopted a resolution in which it is concerned about the state of the service law. At virtually every meeting of the Economic Committee, we are faced with the fact that the professional part of the executive, whether it be the authorities or the ministries, is unable to find sufficiently functioning professional people with an erudition that can pay. It's due to the fact that, thanks to the service law, the proceedings were concreted. There are prerequisites for education and there are prerequisites for working in public administration. In this way, it is really forbidden the arrival of experts who might have been able to move the profession in some other way. Unfortunately, what we expected happened. I am very grateful to the senators for opening the service bill because the executives did not have the courage to do so. But unfortunately, we're gonna turn on... we're gonna put out the fire, and we're gonna solve one exception after another, and the basic problem isn't gonna be solved. The executive simply did not come up with a coherent proposal, but it is also hard to expect, because officials do not burn their own pond. That is probably why the economic committee is very disillusioned so far, how this amendment is being discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-009-033.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Next, Mr David Kasal wants to respond with a factual remark. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-009-033.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add one more thing with regard to the evaluation service. Within the framework of Law 95, which was prepared during last year, there was a big discussion with the Czech Social Security Administration and with the professional company. It is precisely because of this service that 95 are proposed for functional courses with the possibility that doctors who are unable to pursue their profession for reasons of health or some other could also be offered and could be educated using these functional courses and could be educated for individual parts, whether it be the assessment of disability or other matters. I must say that space is created, but it will be necessary to negotiate with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs as well as with the professional society to accede to this, because the first reactions made it clear that they wanted to go back to the way they did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-009-033.u23	Thank you, too. With another point of fact, Mr Rom Kostřica is registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-009-033.u24	Thank you for the floor. On this point, I was actually provoked by Mrs Maxová's speech, and I would just like to make an illustration of what those salaries really are in the state sector. In South Moravia, an English otorinolaryngologist moved to his girlfriend. He needed practice and came to me as head of the clinic to see if he could work for me. He learned Czech, he had international certificate. So we agreed until the question of salary came up. Because when I told him the paychecks, he said, "Please, that's a week or a day?" And then I never heard from him again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-009-033.u25	I thank the honourable Member for his point of view. Another Member, Miroslav Opálka, is entered into a proper debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-009-033.u26	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Serious colleagues, colleagues, I'm gonna try the thesis, I'm not gonna read it. Because even those who asked for an extension aren't here anymore. I would like to say that, first of all, we are reaping the fruit of the approval of the service law through pressure on public opinion and, above all, the reconstruction of the state. If the procedure was that first-stage state secretaries would be established, who would be responsible for mapping the situation in individual offices and then submitting a material, then we probably would not have to look for exceptions. If you look, and I am closest to it, to the medical evaluation service, you will find that the service law is not connected at all with the education of doctors and subsequently with the state regulation of the Czech Medical Chamber number 16, which would make it easier for us, if it were in that law, to prepare and also to monitor performances. Today, 38 percent of these doctors are not qualified, no one is going to force them to complete their professional qualifications. They don't really have a responsibility, because their decision must always be signed by someone who has that competence. And here we see that we lack the number of doctors, because you have to spend your time with what their colleagues are preparing. The second problem is - when I was going through the statistics, because of course I see the crisis situation - that we would also save the number of doctors, if it were followed, that individual applicants would be invited, or those who received disability pensions or care allowances or those who were disabled, not every year or two years, but five years, which makes it easier and allows internal regulation, so figure out how much less would be basically those negotiations. And so let's look at the results of the medical evaluation work and you'll find that a huge number of activities are appeals, which, of course, brings work to other reviewers. And if you say, well, if someone feels that way, they should be able to appeal. But we find that more than half of those appeals are justified. So someone decides incompetently. So just these three figures I'm saying would definitely show us that the number in this situation might not even have to be addressed in those two years. But if you bring up a situation that there's more work and not enough doctors, you can look at one more statistic. If they were paid monthly, the performances were significantly less than when the extras for the number of decisions made were fixed. Which is a minor leap, because each decision brings bonification. So there may not even be such a loss in the lack of doctors, but of course the state budget remembers these doctors, and the Czech administration manages with a considerable amount of funds, which they do not have to put into the medical assessment service and it is a pillow. So it's just a thought that we probably won't be able to catch up on, that the situation that's going on in the state administration doesn't always have to look the way it's being told. But when we look at the intestines, we find that this really works here, and I don't think the service law will solve it in any preparation and solve it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-009-033.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I don't have another application in the general debate. I'm registering a factual remark. Member David Kasal. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-009-033.u28	Just for a little while. I'd respond to my previous speaker. I'm sure it's also an organization of work, because if I make it a lot easier, somebody's missing a limb, that limb won't grow in two years, not five years. So in this case, it would really lead to simplification. And I'm sure there's more of that diagnosis, and it would make the whole system more flexible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-009-033.u29	Thank you for keeping time. Any more applications? [[Mrs Hnyk is reporting for the floor.]] A real point? Yes, I see Mrs Hnyková, I'm sorry. It's yours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-009-033.u30	Thank you for the floor. At this point, I would like to support my colleague from Mr Opálka's Social Committee, because I do not think that extending or shortening the deadline will really solve the situation of opinion doctors. I think that the House and the Social Policy Committee have repeatedly addressed this. I think it's a very serious subject. And at this point, I see it as the only possibility of a complete change in assessment, of changing it in a completely different way. Because if we keep going like this, when there's a breakdown of the medical examiners and that time is going to stretch out more and more, it's going to be very uncomfortable for the disabled and other people. So I think that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, in turn, the whole coalition should still be worth the basics to make a complete change in assessment and go another way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-009-033.u31	I also thank the Member. I am not registering any further factual comment, so I am ending the general debate. I'm asking the translator if he's interested in the final word. [[Yes.]] He does. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-009-033.u32	Thank you for the debate. I understand the comments. Nevertheless, I beg you to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-009-033.u33	Thank you. Is the rapporteur interested in the final word? [[He's not responding.]] If someone poked him. He's interested in... [[I don't.]] He's not interested in the final word. I therefore initiate a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Members made their views known in this order to the debate in detail. First, Mrs Golasowská.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-009-033.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am signing up for two amendments. The first amendment as a House document under number 5554, which concerns the change in systemization. This proposal is presented mainly because of the reduction of the high administrative burden of individual service offices of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Interior, respectively. Civil Service Section. And the second amendment as a House document under number 5555. It concerns the delegation to a lower level of procedure, the discharge of service on the basis of the initiation of disciplinary proceedings, the receipt of remuneration for membership of legal entities, and it also concerns a personal surcharge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-009-033.u35	Thank you, too, Madame. I'm the next logged in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-009-033.u36	The words will be taken by Vice-President Radek Vondráček, who is duly entered into a detailed debate. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-009-033.u37	Thank you, Mr Schwarz, for being prepared to do this for me. I will take advantage of the fact that both my amendments are properly introduced in the House of Deputies and duly justified in writing. This is Amendment 5534 and Amendment 5535. I hereby sign up for both of these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-009-033.u38	I thank Vice-President Radek Vondráček and now Mrs Radka Maxová is duly signed up for a detailed debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-009-033.u39	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to sign up for an amendment which is introduced under number 5549 in the system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-009-033.u40	Thank you, Madame. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in a detailed debate. He doesn't. So this concludes a detailed debate. Once again, I ask the petitioner if he is interested in the final word. The rapporteur? He's not interested. Therefore, since no further voteable proposal has been tabled, I am ending the second reading of this proposal. As it has been agreed that this item will end today's negotiations, I am interrupting this meeting and we will continue tomorrow, Wednesday, January 18th, at 9.00 p.m., item 263. Thank you. See you tomorrow.
